ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u1	Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that his description here on the conduct of members of the other party illustrates the problem of the political era, these imagined politics, which are sometimes called, which, in fact, go out of the system to control but instead, in some way, even in a personal arduous way, hold some sort of talk over anything other than the content of a matter. However, we have been discussing this matter and have sought answers from the other party's supporters to various questions. I feel that right now, in a very clear way, the nature of these new politics, where politicians either don't have the courage to control or to ignore it, do not step in, get fed, be fed, and be controlled by the system, but take advantage of every opportunity to run the media and prevent other politicians from discussing anything beyond the content of a subject. I'm asking why. Senator if he agrees with me. In this context, it is very interesting to see that we have received very clear warnings from the older and more experienced statesmen from all these groups from the left to the right. There may be some men who were in politics at the time when politics was more involved in politics than in showliness, such as those who now expect us to accept this third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. I think it's safe to say so. Perhaps some form of ignorance may be spoken of, politicians may present some statements that, in view of the fact that they cannot stand. In fact, when speakers have given their talks here, they have been called in front of the hall, pointing out that electrical prices have increased during the induction of a pack of energy and are due to increase during the induction of a three - pack of energy package. I am fresh in mind when I gave my first talk here and pointed out this. I gave an example of how electrical power was raised by the induction of a energy package one and two. This was noted in both Science and the 2005 Daily newspaper, and the figures mentioned were extraordinaryly high, ranging from a 743/496% increase in electricity prices, simply because the induction of these energy packages prohibited special house - to - house subsidies and caused prices. I specifically pointed out this in a talk here, and it was called out of the hall that this was wrong. You'll see how the language is in this case. Then these same members of the press, on the Internet media, criticize us for having a filibuster, and using unfounded letters. I have to say, if there's anything that damages the image of Generalis, it's the presentation that just appeared in this interview with several politicians and general members of the Internet at 10:00 this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u3	Mr. President. This increase in prices and how humans simply allowed themselves to argue that this did not last, despite the ability to study whether it was news or an overview of how prices had developed, is another example of modern divorce, these virtual politics, or what we want to call it, in reality. It all works out to create an image or to assert something that sounds good without any connection to facts and realities. This brings to mind the claims of the spokesmen of this case of consumer protection. In fact, it was tried to argue about the previous EU energy directives, but even Björn Björn Bjarnason pointed out, as I traced earlier, that the odds were on the other side, that this would much rather increase prices, as it occurred during the day and the night. A senator has proved this to be true. Could be that, hey. A senator, as you have a feeling, accepts simply some radio point from abroad? That this is presented in Europe as more environmental energy and consumer protection You will then receive these words, which are highly acceptable to the pseudopolitics, but are not localized, so that they simply translate into these European Union word points - the third energy package to achieve more consumer protection and lower prices - completely out of touch with reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, we have an example of this. A senator was stating here that Ministers, officials, and generals have made claims about the EU electricity directives that are beyond control. It is their natural responsibility to advise the general public that the implementation of the energy package directive does not contribute to the household's electricity prices. This we saw crystals in the induction of a energy package one and two. Then, in a press interview, an industrial minister said that electrical prices would not rise. We have letters within the Ministry on the conduct of this introduction, where officials will list and deal with the introduction. There we have a sentence as if it were likely that an electrical price could be altered. They really don't know. So I think you're right about what you're doing. A senator when he says that humans will accept only some declarations or regulations translated. People don't know exactly what they mean. They may be told, as it were. A senator mentioned that this is consumer protection and that politicians in the house, officials, think that it means something good. We've seen everything else appear to us in this, and I'm pretty scared about it and convinced that the source of a energy package three will be in exactly the same way. [[The president calls.]] They're inducting something that comes in the day that they didn't know was an aquifer inside this energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. I think the case we're dealing with right now - i.e. The comments made by the senator on the position of various members of the council to which the discussion is not presented in the Hall, which is not made in the public office, but is presented in the Kingdom News program. 22 from people who haven't been seen in the conference hall in any voice, despite repeated wishes there - when they are spoken of, that politicians don't listen to the nation, that there are very bad listening conditions in this room for certain members of Congress that they don't hear or see what happens outside the walls. That's exactly what's been heard and that's what's been doing. paritaprevir The grandfather of Jónasson said it very well, that it is not being listened here to what happens outside. I think it would be more successful for members of the Middle Class to accuse us of being a filibuster when we stand here and try to reflect and reflect the opinions of more parts of the country, trying to listen to the voice of the people in this case. She does not sing with the voices of the senators who enter radio and television interviews. 22 to try to shrivel the shoes off the defenders of most of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator at the very end of his opponent met the nail when he spoke of standing as a guard for the nation. That's what we're doing here, middle platoon members, we're pointing out how unwary this case has been. Much is unsearched, and questions are not answered. We've requested to have a minister in the Senate Hall answer questions. I remember that, for example. not that environmental ministers have had anything to do with this discussion. This is a large and large environment because bringing in this energy package, we are paying the street to be involved in this large European market in electricity. As a result, this is a sea cable, everybody knows. The director of national activation has said that it is not a question of whether or not a cable will come and it will be sooner than many. What's that gonna mean? It's going to mean that there's more electricity to be produced here because it's profitable. We see that there is a large increase in activation applications and there is an increase in the applications for windmill gardens. All the people who are applying for this license will see the opportunity and know that there is a pure energy here that is going to be very valuable, so there is a lot of environment around us that there will be a huge increase in electricity production. It's an environment and, of course, an environmental minister is coming into the discussion. [[The president calls.]] There has been no word from the Environment Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u7	Mr. President. I hope so. A senator may agree on one thing. I wanted nothing more than to be wrong about the case presented here. I would very much like to wish this case to be unsettled, as any member of the management body would like to say, and in itself, that this case will not change anything but will promote consumer protection so that more than 350 out of 140,000 homes in the country can switch supplies every year. I wish it were like that. And I wish more than anything else that after ten years I could face my grandchildren and say, "I was wrong." The good people who approved of this act were right. I fear, however, that it will not be that way. This is not the first time the Middle Class stands alone, pointing to things that they feel could go for the better. It is so remarkable, Mr. President, that, more often than not, it has come by day. I'm not saying this to get smart about it, but I'm saying it because if you have strong feelings and conviction that you're doing right, you're going to keep doing it right, and you're going to keep going, no matter if anyone's chewing in you while they're munching on bread in a coffee shop, that there's this bullshit-cluming shit in here and that we're here documenting each other in a delicate way, like one nice thing. A senator expressed it. It doesn't matter to us. What matters to us, however, is the encouragement we get from the people of the country in the form of wires and phone calls, text messages, etc. Because they ask us to continue this struggle. [[The president calls.]] That's what matters to us in this discussion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and very good words at the end of his talk, that we are here because we want to protect the interests of the public in this country. The public knows. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned that we have been encouraged to continue our presentation and to inform us exactly what this matter is all about, not doing it to governments. Don't do that to the Group of Congress, don't do Piratar, and don't the advance party do it, or the general members of the board, or we'll get back to work. No, they complain that we are delaying our Senate work and harming the image of the Generals. I must say, Mr. President, that it is just a sad hearing, nothing but a tragic presentation, that the senators are inclined to make such claims. This was called consumer protection. Hv. The reverenders have repeatedly detracted from the platform that this is so much consumer protection. Hv. A senator certainly pointed out the importance of the so - called consumer protection that is always being discussed in the country. There is no need for some consumer protection. Homes can change energy dealers, but what do they have? Nothing, not anything. There's no difference in electrical prices. He's at least. the small that it will not take to replace the power dealers. So we'll see that if there's any misdirection and the debate is being misled, it's done by the governors and their strategists on the side of the government, reverends, members of the Controversies, and Pirata. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u9	Mr. President. There was a bit of talk in TV news at 10:00 p.m. about the respect of the Generals. Those who have held up discussions for some time are destroying this respect by their march. Mr. President. I would allow me to say that it would bring honor to the Generals and faith and trust if the Allied will agree to a false case that could bring harm to the nation. I believe, Mr. President, that this is something of a lack of trust and confidence in the Council. But that was not what I was going to discuss in this talk. I was going to discuss a little more that according to polls, 63% of the people are opposed to taking up a pack of three. There are also companies and corporate partnerships, common organisations and others. It was put together as to who they were, and that is even. The association of garden farmers. Their comments to the Generalis included, by permission of a president: ▪ The agreement of gardening farmers violates the agreement that the above proposals for interpretation will be agreed and emphasised on the following: No further implementation of energy directives should be carried out, while there is no conclusive and confirmed interpretation that Icelanders have full custody of national electricity systems. Mr. President. Isn't this just what me and the media have been saying in this discussion? Isn't that right? In this summary, the garden farmers say, with the permission of the president: The lack of access to Iceland's electrical systems in other countries and support for specific manufacturing projects, e.g. In the form of electrical energy crops to gardening, there will continue to be a return according to law. In this regard, it is appropriate to refer to a special discussion that was only a few days ago, Mr. President, where it stood from one person after another that we should strengthen and support our gardening so that its production would be more diverse, so that it would have to be reduced in order to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide. It all stood out from every man. Then come and hit the article with a sand bag in the back of the head by agreeing with the third energy package, which the European Gardener has claimed to destroy the article. Where now is the respect and trust and confidence of the General? I think men should look at themselves only. I think people should look closer before they're acting out this kind of juju as they've been tonight about the conversation here that has been quite popular. We're picking up the glove, including. for gardening and for the common organization. Vilhjálmur Birgisson has even. Said, by permission of the President: It is in my mind that all these packages of energy [...] are a guide that we as a nation can slow and bite our right to one of our most important resources that are energy resources. That is why, Mr. President, who we stand here and continue to warn that this package will be taken into the current Icelandic legislation. We've suggested a way to reform. We've pointed out how to remedy this situation so that a three - pack of energy can be introduced without harming land and nation. But they do not listen to it. I reiterate that there is nothing I would rather do than be wrong in this matter. If it turns out, as I said before, I'll admit it first. The good news, Mr. President, is that today, it was under inspiration. Minister of Foreign Minister Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson jointly understood the recording of the third energy package at the EEA Council meeting in Brussels. But according to the report, he emphasized this common understanding alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u10	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I sense that there may be a measure of bitterness in this matter. A senator, and hope as soon as he keeps hopelessness. A senator has stood here in the General Assembly and has fought like a lion to get an audience with the government to be more attentive to the facts, to reason, to speeches, to count, to act, to regulations, and to law - to sound information that could be used. At the same time, however, there is hopelessness that there is any way to get the government to enjoy this table, even though it would be only to show the nation the minimal good manners to listen - some are reasons why we have two ears but one mouth. How do you feel? The senator wants the nation now after this discussion has taken place - how far this has become, the highest. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u11	The President's not quite aware of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u12	We'll figure it out in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u13	V.E.G. President. Without the emotional state of the person being here, let it be known that he is never hopeless, he never gives up, never gives up his share in anyone. While we are streaming in greetings, telegrams, requests to continue the fight, we do. And even though some members of the tribe are here biting down on the low level, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. What matters is that when you look back on this matter, you can say to yourself at the end of the day: At least we did everything we could to try to avoid it. If we can do so with a good conscience, much is gained. It doesn't matter what happens in the low grass, not anything. It doesn't matter to us if there are any heels behind us because of the way we conduct ourselves here, it doesn't matter. What matters is that we're working for more people in the country and we sense that we're doing it because they're letting us know. Then it doesn't matter whether one of our heels is having a good time, calling us stupid or something like that. It just doesn't matter at all, and it says more about the person who upholds such things than we do. To answer the senator again clearly: No, the man standing here is not hopeless. He still believes that people can be made aware because he believes in intelligent people - the highest degree. Here, a president who may be able to achieve some sense of reason in his category so that this case will become more attentive, work better, and improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It was not my intention to make a senator feel hopeless toward himself or toward those who have been fighting here or to the good people who all around have sent us good - bye and are behind us. My speech was more directed to the fact that there was a state of hopelessness, that they saw the light in this matter. This is the way one has felt that governments are getting away from it rather than approaching as the discussion progresses. I asked why. A senator's experience, what should we say, is the opinion of people out here. I made it my game when I only stepped away for an hour and a half to examine only social media. Now I don't have much computer trouble, but I do have e - mails, text messages, and this type of communication program on my phone. I thought that, on average, an hour, I had received 40 cheers, the rest of which, to continue and not to go back to my full fists. That's what I'm going to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u15	Mr. President. This was not so that the person standing here would be taking it personally as a matter of course. A senator said. Yes, I still have hope, I hope in men like the highest. For a king who is wise, that they use themselves in their councils to see the light, and others. And I have full faith that this will happen. But I have experience similar to what happened. A senator, if not technically, who has received many greetings, has been encouraged by countless times each hour during this discussion. As I said in my first reply: In the meantime, while people out here encourage us to do good things, there are some little heels that don't matter. They're just this kind of discomfort, temporary, that heals. It is worse, however, to betray the confidence of those who trust in us - it is harder to deal with and live with it. But having stood here and brought up this cause is no more than what we are to do. It's our job, it's our job. It's not about this group, and it's not about these senators, it's supposed to be more political. It should, in fact, be the case if some soci could be done here, they should have reached a parapolitic solidarity to improve the situation. This would increase confidence in the Council and confidence in it if possible. But it doesn't look like it, Mr. President, that it's possible. Of course, we do not go into the grass because of it. [[The president calls.]] We just go on because we believe in the sense of reason, as well as in the minds of others in this room, and also in the reason of those who have hated us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. What matters is that we promote that we are in this discussion because we are deeply concerned that this will lead to a bad influence for the public in the country. There's something else I wanted to come into this relationship. Today, political groups driving this case through have received quite another message from their grass root. The people who work for groups like, for example. Just the independence party and the forward party, working for them in volunteer work, and having done for years, interested in politics, is in these groups because they want to promote social issues that are urgent, want to participate in them, and want to shape these classes, do so during conventions around the country - it has taken a decisive stand against this energy package, against the introduction of this directive. Nevertheless, the leaders of these classes, members of the General Assembly, representing the grass root and then represented by natural representatives for their category here at the General Assembly, maintain a completely different policy than the grass roots, the people who have helped these men and women to enter the council, work for their volunteer work. They maintain a completely different presentation than these people have contributed to their work within the grass root. [[The president calls.]] What is the consequence of a senator's thinking that these classes and their members will have?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u17	Mr. President. In short, I believe they will be diminished. But that's not what it's all about. We have here classes that said a year ago: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. And: The mission team defends Iceland's energy-industry countries and rejects the European Union's energy legislation as part of the European Commission Convention on the European Economic Area. These are the classes we're dealing with. But they have not fulfilled it. They did not vote 18 months ago, saying, "We're going to introduce a third energy package in the European Union. Don't you like it? They did not. So they are now in the middle of an ideal period. In itself, it does not matter how this affects these groups. As it says in the good book: As you sow, you will reap. I believe it will be so with these classes. It seems that some people think voters are people who show up every four years and cross the same list, no matter what happens. But it's not like that. The Icelandic voters, the Icelandic public, are a sensible people. They will not be lied to many times, not to the same people at all. I believe this case, if it be agreed upon, shall be for those who stand not to accept it for good. But there is a secondary point. The key is that this case will not be approved for the benefit of the people of the land. That's worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees with him that it will not be a good thing for the public to bring in this energy package. That's for sure. We need only look at previous sources of energy and what the consequences have been. We've been tracking through speeches and informing the public that energy packages alone and two had a significant impact, e.g. the price of house warming for people who swallow electricity. And not only that, electricity prices in general have increased over a period of several years significantly more than that, for example. the science sheet, which tells us that the Regulation has imposed on these enterprises, which, in turn, make electricity prices rise. What's perhaps the most serious thing in this energy package is that I think it's going to be a lot bigger because we're entering a common market area. We're not connected today. But we're preparing that connection with this energy package. This connection will be established within a few years. It opens a large market that needs clean energy, and we have plenty of it. It's very valuable and there's a demand for that energy. In turn, electricity prices will rise here in the country because, of course, the product, which is the electricity, is in the area at the highest price and will be the highest in Europe. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] As a result, it will lead to an increase in electricity prices in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u19	V.E.G. President. This is exactly what this is all about. Electric prices will be raised by this package. It will affect the prices of the country, which will affect the rates of the country's loans, which will affect the security of the land. In short, this agreement will reduce the standard of living, and we should prevent it as much as we possibly can by our actions. We are to keep people from losing their standard of living. That's why all councilmen are supposed to do it -- take this matter aside to do it a little better than that, improve it to cut off the worst, to prevent people from accepting the shame of living, to keep the Constitution from being stretched out to the limit or broken, to prevent the loss of their feet in their power of the country's resources. This should prevent rich people who have already begun to think of the energy movement in Iceland from being controlled on resources. Foreign Trade News reports: The best investment in the Western Hemisphere is in Iceland's energy resources. We are to prevent us as a nation from losing control of any means of this resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u20	Mr. President. I've discussed my previous talks in detail about the activation history of Iceland and their relationship to the construction of the fortresses, the major industry where me and the Icelanders had to take a large loan at the time when we started this tour of Borfells' construction and sold our energy to a major industry. And then on the way, when we're applying one large river after another. I reviewed the expectations of the people of the country for this resource in the context of the campaign we took after the early part of the last century and down to today's day. The country's expectations are that there will be cheap energy for public, cheap energy for businesses here in the country. That's why it's rich in the minds of the people of the land, because of history and ties to the projects I mentioned. Most people have strong opinions about what to do with energy resources. I also reviewed the legal warnings in my speeches. I reported on the search for a legal warning and published the comments that the members of the management body have taken to heart what they consider to be a legal warning. We have five theories about where it is to be found, and I went over it all, reasoned what problems I saw in it, and thought none of them would stand in the event of a conflict or any occurrence of a European energy directive. They have no national value in the future. They're just for home bridges. But I'm going to give the board a full compromise on that subject and let them know that they can tell us more about where to find this legal warning. I'm going on this talk to come a little bit on the administrative notice, which is a whole other thing, and it's just hoping that people will confuse it. I'm here to discuss the administrative notice and the review of the case to the joint EEA committee. Because many, and especially members of the board, have considered it delirium, and repeatedly refused to send the case back to the treatment of the joint EEA committee, I would like to discuss only the warnings we made when we agreed to aim for the promotion of the third EU energy directive. The advance we set for the EEA joint committee, as is customary, if legislation is thought to need to be changed within a country in one of the countries. The premonition is that if the Allied releases the one we're going to do by this council resolution, we've made a commitment to change the law. That there are no laws in this country in conflict with the directive being implemented. It's so simple. That's why this has something to do with the legal warning we believe we're doing here within the country. Of course, it must not conflict with the European Union's energy directive. It's just that simple. On the basis of what might be called "fear, " or what might be called fear? - is to suggest that if the Council considers the application of the administrative committee to be a cause of rejection and its following treatment again for the European Commission under 102.g. The Convention on the European Economic Area, contains information on the agreement, and that this is not a good way, is thus acknowledging that the administrative guardian was not of any significance. If you are afraid or unable to resist, or think it is impossible to reject, and to go back to the joint EEA committee, they are also saying that a government manager is of no importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u21	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has recently focused on his search for the answers. It has not yet been successful, yet the matter has become clear, for we have been able to write down theories that have been proposed on how to feel about it. But in view of the situation in our quest now, it is urgent to ask why. A senator, particularly from his comments that none of the theories that have been developed on where the warnings might be found will be met if there are legal differences: are there not substantial odds that when it comes to such major interests and major issues of the future such as energy, will arise some kind of legal conflict sooner or later, and probably end up with huge interests, both financial and political interests, especially by the European Union? You may somehow feel that once such a rule has been introduced, some people will try whether to form this joint energy agency of the European Union will carry on the real role described. The question, though, is this: If any of these warnings are involved, is it not safe to assume that there will be a difference, and therefore the warnings will fail?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To this question and question, did Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, win over the question? He put it in such a way that I was delivering news of my search for the guards. That's right. I'm very excited to realize what the government means with this legal advance. They haven't been able to direct me to him so conclusively. Several members of the council have suggested various issues, and many have been identified as legal candidates. No one has a representative of the government, such as. Minister, come here and point him to me, saying, There he is. This is what we mean to be the legal guardian. - It hasn't happened. We haven't yet, after all the time we've been discussing this, got a tip that we can trust completely, that it means the warning we really want to consider and wonder if it has any value. For the five warnings we've been wondering about, we have, at least I, to the conclusion that they have no value when the rule of the third energy package has been implemented on the land. These are beautiful and kind declarations. This is the result of some discovery, all good and fine to their bridges, sometimes political, sometimes some sort of discovery of facts, such as that Iceland is an island, and that there is no sea cable where men have looked at it; or any of the regulations that are signed up in the Dark District of the Ministers of Iceland's Government, etc. This has no national value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for explaining this details, but to repeat my question: Is it not quite likely that in such a language as energy, sooner or later, and probably earlier, there will be some issue? This is the vast area, and the interests involved are the great, and much of the law and regulations involved. The European Union, or institutions such as ACER and ESAs and other European institutions, are very much so that, when these three are combined, these vast domains of power, this vast and complex category of events, and these great interests, there will be no long wait for a conflict to arise, a matter of opinion. Let them be cast to the throwing of the empty, blameless lips; and let them be swept out of the table like dead flies, like a dog. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson put it that way. It's not a small thing, it's not a case that's unlikely to be recognized. This is one of the two main priorities of the European Union. This is one of Iceland's greatest interests. This is one of the largest economic growth fields in the Western world, the energy issues. Is it not safe to conclude that there will be potential issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Yes, Mr. President. In the past, it was said that unless Hunsves were in some lawsuit, they were not at all comfortable and always wanted to have some sort of case going on in court. To celebrate the question of why. Of course, the senator is such, especially in financial matters, that people now make blacks if they think that somewhere they can fit in if they feel that they are wrong and that they have any part of it. Of course, it is very likely that if we create the energy directive it will not be long before someone is forced to test any factors or regulations in this directive and may not even need a cable. The integrity of the Regulation in the European Union will be late investigated. I think that the only source that could have some meaning for us Icelanders is the one who did what was right, i.e. for the EEA joint committee, to be properly and legally treated there. All I can see is that it is the full will of the European Union and any representative of the EFTA to meet the understanding of the Icelanders in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u25	Mr. President. There is a bit of an interesting approach that has been discussed and should be noted: Does not the European Union always want to have a legal case, as if it's something fun to stand in the air or something? But that's not true at all. It is legalistically cloven by the relationship and gives huge benefits to try and test matters for the sake of the authorities, whether the regulations and laws work as they were supposed to. As we know, man's law is a work of men. But the law can be changed. The order can be changed. And that's what's being done all the time. The law and order are changed if the court's decision is made that it's not the authority - the European Union in this case, the writer of the rules - I need the word, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u26	I'm in a mood.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u27	...in a way, thank you, Mr. President, the rules can be changed. Well, maybe. A senator might come into this for a moment. Whether this is not the best purpose of a court case or in some form of judgment, to set the rules in their own interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u28	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah. A senator - I thank him for the questions - says it's clever of the relationship. I'm not going to have a whole relationship with myself, and I'm going to have someone special to do that. I think there are certain goals on the principle, such as the energy directive. In such a large relationship with hundreds of millions of people, nothing stands in the way of the goals involved. Iceland, as little as it is, as far away as it is, small and small - I saw the comparison that we were as large and as large and possibly as far away from the European Union and in a very similar place as Gímney when compared to Iceland. So maybe there's something that people can imagine if those monsters wouldn't follow some rules that we wanted to introduce to Gímney as well. Of course, it doesn't matter in the overall context, really anything. Without a man's intention to dominate or abuse his position, these goals are just so strong, and there's so much money in it that it doesn't matter what's being whispered somewhere on a small island in the Atlantic Ocean.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. But when I said that it would be clever to keep testing legislation and regulations for judgment or final decrees, I didn't mean that it was the way it was, but that it was clever in the light of the Union's goals that rules are clear and uniform and beyond doubt, that there is no doubt about how the legislation works, how it should work, and when it applies, and when it doesn't. If there are such doubts at table tables, it is reasonable to have it tested in court, and then there is a conclusion. If the result is that it does not serve the purpose, the aim of the relationship in this case, to form an integrating market, to get the state of the Union as well as the EEA to work on and under the same rule of work - if there are any migrating rules - it can be fixed and it can improve its objectives. I have speeches that have to do with one of those overwhelming rulers, such as ACER. I'm putting it under control. A senator if it's not clever or clever.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u30	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. I thank him for the question and for further explaining it. I think the right word for this, huh? Senator, if you'll be effective. When the relationship takes its course in any matter, lays down regulations or directives, it is expected to be carried out, specific objectives, and other goals. If people see that they are not going to follow them or try to escape them, then certain efficiency is evident. The effectiveness of the EFTA committees has often been debated, Mr. President, that the efficiency of the EFTA committees is considered to be more and more potent and more accurate than the practice of the European Union itself. That the EFTA countries are more Catholic than the pope in that time, in order that, as soon as something's out, they will have their place, and they will have a quick look at things. They've been complaining about it. Of course, the principle is that a person must obey the rules that are right. In this energy directive, we must always bear in mind that we are dealing with one of the nation's most important resources, i.e. the energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u31	A respectable president. I hope your most noble have not missed my last speech. If so, I can briefly review its contents without a complete trace, although it is certainly worth going back over all. But, by chance, when I was looking for information on the induction of the European Union's railroad orders and how they were going to introduce it in Iceland, I discovered an enormously interesting article written on the implementation of the second EU energy directive, where some politicians, but particularly Bjarnason, former U.S. Marshal and Minister, cross that case and give tremendous evidence that no energy package should be introduced and that we should apply for exceptions, he does not end up here and does not have the desired effect. All the evidence presented here applies to a pack of three energy, and, in fact, much more, it is considerably larger and much more powerful than the one called the second energy directive. But I'm going to grab back into this article. It's from the 2002 Morning Press. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Árni of Steinar Jóhannsson, representative of the WG on the Allied Industrial Committee, says that the status of electricity in Europe is very different from that of this country. ▪ We in the left movement the green supply makes it appear that the electricity system in this country should be on social ground, to be thought of as one of them. We view it as one of the continents of the United States. When asked, he agreed that Icelanders should search for a release from the European Commission's Council. Einar Oddur Kristjánsson, vice president of the Senate budget, points out that there were comments on the bill, including the U.S.A. comments have been made from Landic activation and the state's electric forces. ▪ In Iceland, for normal reasons people have doubts about the potential for active competition, he explains. He says that humans also saw to it that the bill expects a highly complex surveillance system that is afraid of becoming expensive. ▪ One person has doubts as to how the amount of electrical expenditures required will be used, as he says. The doubts not only came from rurals but also from urban areas. So Einar Oddur emphasizes that the bill will be considered well. ▪ I'm not saying that there are things on the bill that do not look for progress, but we need to take a good look at them so that we are not shooting at our feet. Mr. President. In this article, we will discuss with politicians from different categories, all of whom consider reasons to avoid the introduction of another EU energy directive and provide strong evidence. The only evidence mentioned in question is that the minister of the day, Valgerður Sverrisdóttir, is concerned that, at this time, it has been introduced by a particular date, or it will be expected to get a disgrace in the hat from the European Union. Mr. President. This certainly reminds us of the situation we are in today. Politicians from different categories coming from different directions and, in fact, a lot more than politicians, strongly warn against the induction of the third energy package. But somewhere, even at night, people are pressured to drive through the council. And where did that pressure come from? I wonder if it's just the same way it was back in 2002. Let's hope history doesn't repeat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech, which is of great importance because it is not the first and less the last, that I think, in a relatively long row of discussions about the history of energy and their treatment in the hands of the General of the Council in a recent past. In fact, it was addressed here yesterday or earlier - the days merely come together now - that the nation's energy issues have been in our minds. But there has always been one thing that has been in man's mind, i.e. that the resource is in the hands of the Icelanders and not to be passed on. That's where it kills a dog. A senator down in an article about 17 years old, since 2002, if I noticed correctly. It involves considering the same points as we now consider in this Regulation and in the laws we now have. So people looked ahead and wondered what this would do and how it would have affected them. And there is always the same concern, that there is an ever - increasing trend. This is certainly true because it is constantly added to the regulations and laws, which gradually fade from the self - sufficiency and sovereignty that we possess over our resources. Contemplating others A senator of mine?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u33	Yeah, I heard why. A senator approaches this approach in a way that I am trying to present by means of this review. Learning from history is important, learning from experience. People often have amazing things going on with them. But when the examples are in front of them that are so similar to what is being dealt with at that time, they must want to look back on the experience. Perhaps the flight can be used as an example. It seeks to learn from experience. In any case, if a mistake is ever made, it is an experience to prevent such a mistake from repeating itself. Why not try to approach law more that way? I don't talk about when we have an example that is quite striking like what we're dealing with right now. The difference, however, is mainly that one energy package, as it has been called in the past century, was simply an electrical directive. The third pack of energy is much bigger, and it contains regulations. This is a major difference because countries that record these types have far more freedom to conform to regulations than regulations. Therefore, it can be concluded that a third energy package can have the same effect as the second energy package, unless it becomes much more burdensome and much more necessary for Iceland to comply with national regulations at all but has very limited resources to adapt the situation here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u34	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. You're absolutely right. The way we fly is so much to learn from and from the methods used there to reach conclusions and achieve some progress in matters. The flight is like everything else that we humans get close to, that's making a mistake. There will be accidents and accidents, varying degrees of severity. There we have a system that is this way, even though men make mistakes themselves and even if the mistake is the way they violate laws, they are underpriests to report such things, even announce themselves, which is really so in modern rights, Western courts, that humans are not obliged to do so. They are not under obligation to blame themselves. But we do so on the grounds that no human will be punished if they report. This is to find the basis for the error rather than find who is guilty, in order to determine what was wrong, and to prevent a mistake from being made again to the future. For a talk or two. It should be kept in mind that the European Community aims and policy changes constantly. A climate policy is now being developed and set up until 2050. [[The president calls.]] Is that not something we should be interested in?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u35	Mr. President. I suppose a respectable president has come to realize that now we have a new and interesting approach to this matter. Learning from experience but using methods that have made good elsewhere to learn from experience, and then this wonderful comparison. A senator's flight from man to man, but he does not really have the obligation to point out and admit a mistake, for they will not be punished for it. Here is a clear appeal to the members of the councils who have announced that we need to introduce the third energy package. We may have to try to convince them that if they admit a mistake, learn from the experience, like these examples I traced here, and want to change my mind, want to think more, even reject this directive, and preferably send it back to the joint EES committee, they will not be punished for it. I'll claim to the highest. The president here and now that we will not punish those who see themselves, learn from experience, and revise their thoughts, in some cases, again, to this matter in order to prevent a new accident. On the contrary, we will commend the individual, encourage them, and assume that hopefully they will be deemed righteous among their supporters and voters, even.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I think it's very important to quote politicians, what they said in the past, in connection with the implementation of EU energy directives. We will be told in our society that we need to improve the image of the Generals and improve the work of the Generals. It is one of the issues of the Government Strategy to support the Council, as it is called. Then there are issues, big and large issues, where it is visible that people speak contrary to what they said one year ago or even a few months ago. We'll see, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance and the Chairman of the Independence Party, how he has completely changed his mind. Just over a year ago, he spoke at the council, which expressed his great doubts about the induction of a three - pack of energy. There have been other members of Parliament, and the head of the forward party had serious doubts about this energy package and the bodies of these same categories, as well. [[The president calls.]] Well, then the question is. Senator: Is it not just the matter that politics, and especially when it comes to things like this, have completely outdone the public and not respect these legal institutions? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u37	The president emphasizes that these questions occur before the time has passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u38	Mr. President. I expect a respectable president to take the answers too before the time is up, and I'll do my best. The question, however, calls for a little speculation. Hv. A senator asks: " Are the political parties that are going to overtake the public and its backlands? ' Yes, that may be the way it is to say it. But it's at least It is clear that the groups have begun to overlook the public and their backlands. Sadly, though, this trend is widespread in many lands. Today, there have been elections for the European Parliament in Britain. I don't know if it's surprising to a respectable president that it's being elected to the European Parliament in Britain, since the British decided to resign from the European Union three years ago. Why is this? Yes, the politicians have not listened to the public, have not listened to their voters and supporters in the backyard. They've been listening to the system and being controlled by the system. As a result, Britain has not yet been released from the European Union. No doubt, those groups who have failed in this way have been punished in the election today. So my answer to a question is why. Senator: Yes, the categories have at least get separated from the common people's will and those of their voters, but hopefully democracy still works to the point that they have to suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The result - I think it's the very point that this case will have consequences. This will have consequences for the public, if it is accepted without a permanent discharge from this directive with the legal ways we have, which are taking care of the joint EEA committee. This will not be done according to the system. Hopefully, there will be a change of mind in these matters, and hopefully this discussion here, which is very important, has stirred up the statesmen and the riders, the members of the United States, Pirantar, and Grouse, to consider their journeys. In addition, I think that humans will see themselves when we have considered so thoroughly what the consequences and how previous energy packages have affected the public in the country. Hopefully, they have members of Congress and contemporaneouss who have used false records, e.g. Here at the Hall called out that electrical prices have not gone up, that they are just wrong, seen in these chemicals, and realized the consequences, and hopefully they begin to reconsider their views on this matter. Because a pack of three energy is much larger than a pack of energy one and two, the result is much higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u40	Mr. President. Before I answer any questions. I'd like a senator to ask a president to sign me back on the rosary, I seem to have forgotten. I've been trying to get into the discussion about the economic impact of the third energy package on the country. But then, comment. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. I think he got to the point when he said we had to hope that our opponents in politics would do what is likely to increase support, though it is. A senator did not say that exactly. It is a little strange to be in the position of trying to guide political opponents, making them more successful. But it's simply because we view this package of energy as important as it is, defending much national interests for the future, that political divisions should be established, this should be a matter that all can join together, as we have seen older or former politicians, from left to right, to join together to warn about this matter. So I have the hope that those classes whose only name is called the social security groups will disappear from being controlled by the system and from being concerned with the will of the party and the common people in this case. Because like a dog. A senator pointed to the very point earlier that evening - and why. paritaprevir Sæmundsson too - it wouldn't have been a good thing for these groups in elections to promise to introduce the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u41	Mr. President. I have in front of me an Annex taken from the European Union on what is called in the English language, with the permission of Presidents: 'Eternality market desegrins' and will be moved here in a loose translation, where we do not have all this annex and Regulation in English to be expected. With permission of the President, according to this appendix, one of the main objectives of a package of pure energy for all Europeans, ◯Clean energy for all Europeans◯, in English, will be uplifted and converted into development in the European electricity market as compared to the changes that have taken place in energy in the past few years and will occur in the coming years. Energy from renewable energy is expected to increase by 25%, to more than 50% in 2030, and therefore the European Union rules need to be updated to bring this new team into the Regulation. However, while the sun does not shine and the wind does not blow, sufficient energy is needed to meet the demand. To meet the needs of renewable energy and attract investments, e.g. in energy chambers, or what is called on the English tongue ●energy form to offset different amounts of energy production. Targets also need to be properly encouraged to enable consumers to maintain energy stability. To initiate this, the European Community has done the following: Updated in the European Parliament and Council Regulation 72/2009/EC and Council Regulation. 714/2009, install a new risk management Regulation, or ◯Risk Preparedness‡, and increase the role of ACER. The new directives adopted in May 2019, were based on this clean energy for the entire European population, the package being released in November 2016. They are published in a publication called the Great Journal, which will be valid in the summer of 2019, the summer in which we are entering our own time. By decree, the European Community will have 18 months to make these new arrangements for national law. This new energy directive and the new energy law then establish new thresholds for the inducers for granting strength in direct connection with energy production. By allowing energy to travel freely where it is most needed at any time, communities will benefit from cross-border trade and competition. Energy security will continue to increase and the European energy system will become more stable, i.e. the European Community's energy system. The change being made involves switching to renewable energy and increasing electricity technology, which is so important in order to achieve that purpose in 2050. This change will also contribute to new activity. But to ACER. This appendix says that providing the future challenges for the European energy market, the role of ACER was enhanced in the energy market and also in the area of the security of the Agency. Initially, the ACER, as mentioned in a three - pack energy pack, was mainly to perform a surveillance role, counseling role and coordination, but since the future expected energy market will require greater cooperation across borders, it was seen that there was a potential problem that would not be a person who would have the responsibility to monitor regionally across all countries regardless of borders. Therefore, ACER has now been given increased power where cross-border transfers will occur to prevent unnecessary urgency and make decisions when there is a risk of abnormalities in English: ACER will now oversee future regional units and thereby prevent potential problems that could arise if each state governed its own issues that could have negative consequences on energy markets and energy users. This will also adjust future rules where ACER will now be able to give direct consent instead of specifically approval by each state. National surveillance agencies in the ACER will be allowed to vote and be fully involved in the process and to make decisions each time, in English, the National Orders of the Union. It's the Power Institute that we've talked about here so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. What I want to do is come in a little bit. A senator is this growing interest now amongst investors to invest, e.g. In wind power plants and, in fact, more energy plants, i.e. water power activation just below 10 megawatts. Now these investments, such as wind power plants, are very expensive. It is expensive investments consisting of wind power plants, and we are seeing that there is a request for food plans and other such for wind power plants, as well as up to 40, 50 mills, meaning that the cost is huge. It is clear that those who see such projects naturally want the project to be profitable and would never make that enormous investment if they did not see to it that the money is being done. But in view of the current energy prices in Iceland, the lowest part of Europe, there must be a little bit of a confusion that these expensive investments will pay off by selling their energy here within the country. I don't think it's going to work. They must see other opportunities then to be in that pure energy and to sell it to Europe. [[The president calls.]] Isn't that the way it is, huh? A senator, that in the mind of these investments, there is one application, i.e. selling energy into Europe? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, this growing interest in investing in renewable energy is, in my opinion, understandable though at first sight it may seem that it is more difficult to see. Why in Iceland where excess power and electrical prices already exist with the lowest known European market? Of course, the human child sees that the future is selling energy from here, since conditions for producing energy are far better than perhaps down in Europe with the appearance of a cable. That's what you're saying. In the Annex I am here translated and reviewed, the natural issue is that the European Union has plans for climate change and cleaner energy sold at higher prices on the grounds of reducing the carbon line. There may not always be the best conditions to produce these energy, as is said here, although the sun does not shine and the wind does not have to produce enough energy to demand. It is also spoken of energy storage, investments in energy storage, or in English, at a time called the President's permission. This is a natural practice in view of the fact that decades of goals are set in advance. To achieve that goal, we need to take good care of things now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u44	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah. When a senator said that he would reach their goals, he met the question. So I think it's pretty clear that the goal is to take this step to the full, to participate in this common market. Then you ask: When you put into such enormous investments, it's not entirely given to you that if this energy package weren't created, it would just be an exception that we would receive this legal way through the joint EEA committees, and then, in fact, all these conditions that invest and those who are buying land and activation licenses and planning to go into huge investments - are not their plans being thwarted? And thereby we see companies that make such enormous investments natural use their power, pressure on those who have to do this. Is it not likely, then, that the emphasis on passing this issue through would have much deeper roots, i.e. the pressures these companies put on governments? It is not unusual for humans to speak in their own way. This is known in politics in many parts of the world. Businesses have stakeholders that speak to them. [[The president calls.]] But isn't this the case? Is it not a danger that all of these plans will fail if this is approved? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u45	Mr. President. Yes, the goal is certainly so, and it is not hidden from the European Union. The European Union is eager to take this step to the full. All who have studied and participated in some type of investment project, especially when deciding to make investments, large or small, how expensive their investments are, and how much money must be put on the project at once or at the time they are setting up the investment and then the money industry. What is the requirement for the use of money placed in that investment? Of course, because in this case the uncertainty factor is not the resource. It's not like we're about to dig in the Hover and maybe come up there with oil or gold, something we don't know about. We know we have fallen waters. We know that there is a wind that can be harnessed, an energy and resource. But there is no rule against making sure that if you go into your investment, it will make a lot of money. It could be that the Icelanders had some paradox and would plan to stress that the resources remained in the nation's possession, that would put these plans out of place. And that's what it's all about these investors and the pressures they put on the government, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u46	President. I think it could be called a chess match and a speech to the third energy package. There was a lot of striking in this description. Senator, multiple sentences. One especially, i.e. When it's low. A senator spoke of the problems that would follow if each country was ruling its affairs. If this does not sum up that the induction of this energy package and the making of ACER that some kind of super-national institution that stretches its breath into Iceland revolves around a full-creature, I don't know what to convince men that it was really, what would it take to do. As a result, this institution is part of or important in the European Union's main objective of continuing to develop toward greater integration, higher communication, towards state, some say, and at the same time reducing the authority of each nation. Many of the European Commission leaders are totally reluctant to admit this and say that this has to happen, that gradually the nation has to yield more and more of its sovereignty. But there's a reason. A senator wouldn't agree with me that it's not right for us Icelanders?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u47	Mr. President. The speech I held here is a glimpse of the future. Although not such a distant future because it is stated by the European Community that these regulations will take effect in the summer of 2019 and the lead-in period is 18 months, only 18 months from now. It is only a year and a half, and time flies quickly into a satellite age, as the poet said. In this regard, I'd like to recall a few words. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, a scholar of whom I deeply respect, a very comfortable man in all presentationes and has presented evidence here for various matters. However, in an article published in the reactor, he reminds me that ACER is not an over-national institution - based his argument about what has happened before the council and the opinions of certain men who have appeared before the committee - yet its decisions are finalized for debaters. I believe it involves paradox. How can international authority not be the final issue, then two different peoples, two different national states, or national relationships? I have to agree with it. A senator said, what was being done here is not suitable for us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u48	President. Those who try to claim that the ACER is not a secular institution, does not possess national authority, may not have studied the matter. Like what? A senator has made very clear, not just in this speech but in previous talks, but in previous talks, it is made clear whether you look to the Agency's website or go deeper in EU regulations, the nature of the Agency, and the nature of that authority. And not only that but also the aim of the agency is directly to reduce the authority of the states by national authority. So that either people have not studied it or, the other possibility, they may try to revise things, so to speak, to draw attention to the facts and to indicate that this is something completely different from what it really is. Whatever the time frame is. A senator spoke of them as such, as we have now come to the conclusion of earlier this evening, that once the system is set in motion in some way, it will continue on that course and must shape our attitude toward this institution according to its direction. If we jump into the train now, there's nothing to jump out of when she's on a full trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u49	Mr. President. I think that's absolutely right. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If you jump out of a full-way train, good luck is not in control except in the old Westerns, you'll see that after you robbed the train. But for the ACER and the international authority, it is clear, after reading through this appendix, that it is added. I reviewed earlier that the ACER will now oversee future regional units, or what is called the English language'regional entities, thus preventing potential problems that could arise if each country was running its own business. In fact, this is in complete agreement with the EEA's interview with the Community's energy manager, May 5th. that a unanimous agreement within the Community for change has become completely out of date, rather than moving to the simple value of votes. It's even Because the state of Poland today is getting in the way, in its own matters. It sounds like something that doesn't fall into an alliance's course. It seems that they are quite afraid to say this as unlikely as it sounds when you read it aloud.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u50	Mr. President. Only in my talks have I discussed how councilmen and ministers have said one thing and done another when discussing this matter. This raises questions. I have, for example. Make it interesting to have the highest attention. The Secretary of Economic and Economics, Bjarni Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party, has changed your mind in this case if you consider a speech he delivered here on March 22, 2018. It is interesting to quote that talk. By permission of the President, the highest. Secretary of finance last year: ▪ What I have so hard to understand is interest. A senator and some of the members of the council are expected to submit to the invitation of the Common European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? That's a very normal question. Then there's that same politician, the highest. Economic and economic Ministers, are about to implement the European Union's directive in the power of state which includes the closer we are to being under the European Union's authority on this important issue. Here is an interesting example of how politicians can be completely enamored by their opinions. Of course, this raises concern and makes me feel that it affects confidence in the council and the way the public respects politics and politicians. Not long ago, the office manager of the General Assembly, who has been here for years and is involved in leaving a successful career here in the autumn months, observed in an interview - he was asked whether it was not a concern for the public's lack of trust in the council and how it could be improved. Then I made a special decision, and it was just as if he thought he was going to be pleased that politicians were concerned with what they were saying. Then we come to the very point where we see it again and again, and in particular is reflected in this case, that the politicians say one thing and then do another. It doesn't have to take even a few months, at most one year, and then they've completely been tolerated in this. It can also be spoken of as being very powerful and powerful. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, president of the General Assembly, who moved here in connection with the induction of a energy package one and two, which he made clear against the introduction of this energy package and had a special look at the Foreign Affairs Committee, a highly logical opinion, and made his case very well, as he alone is. Now it's got the highest. President, what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, enforcing a pack of three. This makes you think about how we can improve politics and why people change their mind. I think the public has the right to get a strong explanation for why people are enthralled in such important and important matters. I think it's quite perfect, legitimate, and normal that they do. I've traced it here in a few speeches, and I intend to continue doing so and to discuss the Independence Party in this regard because it may be the most prominent part of him, I would say, in the last few months, and wish to be reassigned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u51	The president's attention is what. A senator ought to, if anything. A senator chooses to discuss the political career or the position of senator Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, in his position as the president of the Generals. It's not about the President's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u52	Mr. President. I wish to be added to the rosary above Bergþór Ólason, who is on my way to a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u53	The President has developed the rule to bring men down the rosary only once. We're not gonna have her like a roulette.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u54	Thank you. paritaprevir For good talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson offered. Regarding the attitude of the Independence Party and its prime officers from March 2018 - which is the resolution of the prosecuting committee of the Independence Party on Industrial and Energy matters, in which lnvolveds make one voice - says, by permission of the President: The natives of Iceland, they even know that they're on the move. in the energy that lives in falling waters, minerals, the centres of the earth, and the seas. Icelandic energy companies are leading today, and the knowledge that Iceland has created in this area in recent decades has become an important and currency exporter. Sustainable resource use is and should be a key factor in all decisions. The government's tenant policy needs to be explained by energy companies. A national meeting is full of ideas about domestic development in connection with the economic use of energy resources. Icelandic exports and manufacturing companies should enjoy the competitive prelude involved in the use of green Icelandic energy. A meeting of the United States against the sale of green cultural certificates of electricity. The Independence Party rejects further forwards of the administration of the European Union's European institutions to the European Union's European institutions for energy markets. The build-up of the national electricity transport system should be consistent with the production and demand for electricity, focusing on the distribution of the three-phase electricity. The transport system has to be further developed, especially to improve the emission security in individual parts of the country and to increase its competitiveness. Is this not at odds with what is now being proclaimed, my dear? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I think it's clear that this is a problem with what is presented here and that raises some questions, as I mentioned earlier in my speech. A solution to this issue is expected not to be the product of what was originally held, and the solution includes so - called omens, which the government has proposed. in order to establish laws that require that no sea cable be placed in or out of the country except with the approval of the Generalis. The European Union is not following notice, but if they are present, they have been approved through the joint EEA committee and there we have e.g. are being warned about natural gas and canals, for example. However, these are the warnings set out without the direct involvement of the EEA committee, which creates uncertainty. There is a way that, for example. Scholars have said that it is not the best way, so you ask: " Why is choosing a path that is not the best? Why is it not that way, such as. with the natural gas and the canal, just to get an exception from there, i.e. through the EEA Commission? This raises questions. It has been claimed that this was a risk to the EEA agreement. I don't think so. I've come up with some argument and maybe come in more afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u56	Mr. President. That's the point. Many members of the council have come on a talk chair and declared that what I read earlier was then, but this is now, that, with these so - called prowess, three are just a completely different case than what was discussed here a year ago. The fact is, a pack of three energy has not changed anything since then. On the other hand, they are warning that the meaning is putting here on a very weak foundation. Here are material and legal reasons why they cannot hold to themselves because the national rights of the land are taking over. It's as simple as that. We have been given talks and written on the past committees that disappear over the same, that the legal and proper way is in full agreement with what our best scholars have described, that if we are going to get a firm and permanent advance notice, it is only in one place, and this is in the joint EEA Commission, that they are placed in the European Economics Convention. See what? A senator of this matter in the same way as I described it here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u57	Mr. President. Yes, I certainly do. In such matters, in legal matters, people often look to condemnation. We know the legal principles, etc. When it comes to these warnings, and whether they're holding, like a dog. A senator mentioned here, we can look for an example. We have examples that clearly show us that this kind of warning has not been maintained by one side of the other party, who is in this situation with Iceland. It refers to the so - called meat matter mentioned several times during this discussion because it has to do with the very matter. We introduced every food law in the European Union in 2009 that states that raw meat must be imported here. We are deeply concerned that it could harm our clean livestock and our clean agriculture, and that's why we're setting warnings. We'll put this in advance without being made with the other party and in agreement with it. We'll set a law that says it's called freezing duty, that all meat that comes to this country is frozen for at least 30 days. Then we must be judged to import raw meat. The discharge is doomed. This lead did not think - here we have the example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u58	President. Hv. A senator entered the side of this case that I feel is becoming more and more pronounced, i.e. how the debate on the third energy package and the conduct of the members of the administrations and the groups that they follow is becoming more and more clear to the political problems these days, not only the problems of politics in Iceland, but the more extensive problems that are presented in elections, making all kinds of promises, and then taking over the name, not using the authority to follow the election policy. There is nothing new about any sort of party being accused of betraying an election code. The difference, however, is that these classes now seem to, at least Those in the government now, do not give us any opportunity to follow their course. Not only do they look past the election promises, but they've run out of policy too. It's particularly prominent in this case, since all three groups had a very clear policy on energy, in terms of sovereignty. Even long after election, leading men of these groups began to take that course. Then something happens, and they suddenly disappear from her, but they don't trust to argue why. In fact, it sounds like you can expect the highest. The president will be ready for a speech chair. But what causes this to happen in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u59	Mr. President. That's a very legitimate question. Senator. What happens? Why do people fall away from what they have concluded? Why do they not enforce their protocols? Why do they not enforce the will of their partyers? Why are they following a course that is opposed to the majority of the nation's population? Why do they follow a policy where more than a portion of the narratives about a case are negative, as is the case in the comments presented to the State Department? Hence, there are reasons that have not been presented here and that need to be learned and explained. Yes, it has been said that perhaps the EEA deal could be upset if the contract and legal way of asking for annuity. It's never been done for 25 years, and maybe the deal will upset you. It was used at 26. The constitution that had not been used for an entire lifetime. Everything upset me, did the constitution upset you? No, not at all. There are reasons for this, and they need to be taken into consideration. The fact that everything here gets upset with the EEA treaties is one opinion in the material that I don't think is logical enough. [[The president calls.]] These are just and natural questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u60	President. Now, for this whole situation I think it's safe to call it, that you fear that the EEA will be upset, it's only enough to point out one of the many things we've learned in these discussions. In the only opinion that was alluded to such things, however, it was clearly stated until that, i.e. ... tomake$ 102. ... to bring the matter into terms of reconciliation would not harm anyone. For some reason, the government, the government, the Supreme Court. I suppose a minister would overlook the point of a summary introduced to the council that just tells you that this is a reason. Something else must be behind the fact that all these classes abandon their basic policy in this matter. It is not good to say what it is, especially because it is a matter held at the same time by these same groups to change nothing. It is not as if this is a matter that goes against the class policy, and they can say: nevertheless, we feel that this is an important matter for society that we must finish it. On the other hand, at the same time as they try to drive it through during a night meeting, it is claimed that this is a matter that really does not change anything. There's not a whole bridge in this, but there's quite a lot on the management hearing and on their third energy pack assistants.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u61	Mr. President. Yeah, it's not a whole bridge. It's a good word. A senator, driving a case through at night meetings, like what? A senator mentioned, a case that the directors then say was of no importance. It's a very strange presentation, and you ask, "Why are we running this through at this time? Since this issue is a major concern for the public, would it not be reasonable to postpone it? Is it not reasonable to introduce the matter to the common people, to get the people back together? If that has no effect on us, is it not possible to introduce the matter to the public, postpone it until autumn, and review all the information in this regard, especially what is involved in convincing the common people? Isn't it important for the government that she gets the public on such a matter? Then she does not have to worry about being driven through something that will eventually cause much controversy in society when it becomes clear that the situation has a major impact. The middle class and I have noted in our language that the same tone was in the discussion when energy packets were created one and two, they were not supposed to have any effect on electrical prices. The second came on the day we have demonstrated with logic. That is why there is a high risk that the same will happen with the induction of the third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u62	President. Now it's time for me to start my work on the economic consequences of the third energy package. We have already discussed a brief report of the Norwegian report that described what would be expected there because of the induction of the third energy package. Indeed, it was a black report, as the Bounty newspaper put it. It describes a significant economic loss, especially for the Norway country. Thousands, even tens of thousands, are described as losing their jobs, and the competition for energy will be lost. All that is pointed out in the Norwegian report is equally relevant in this country and, in fact, even more because this is the land area, the largest part of this island - a relatively large relative to the population - in a more delicate position, a much more sensitive position, in most parts of the country than the territory or rural area of Norway. As a result, any fluctuation that could result from the induction of this third energy package is more likely to build up compared to the Norwegian example. Let's just take one thing to start with before I start talking about the big picture. What a powerful influence it would have if we lost e.g. The plant in the East? How effective would that be in the 1930's? This would have been a tremendous negative chain reaction for the settlements, and it would have been seen as a crucial factor for the national part of the attack, and in a way the men were able to turn the defense, I think that it may be called a emergency prevention, in a parish, or at least. base to build on. If this large employer disappeared from the East, it would not be merely that the work in the plant was lost. It would have a tremendous chain reaction in most other fields of activity, for the people working in the studio, of course, have to buy their products and services, buy houses, or rent. It uses the community's services, and it pays out an answer. In other words, the rest of the industry would suffer marvelously for this one company to disappear, and that would also be the case with rural society. Is it possible for such a workplace to close as a result of the third energy package? So let's think about it, Mr. President. If Icelanders begin to export energy on the basis of the European Union and sell it at the same price as the European Union, selling it from one common energy source, where everything is going together; energy produced by nuclear energy, with gas burns, oil burns, coal burns, of course, etc., energy would go into one pot, clean and dirty energy. If these two were to go together, higher energy prices and energy in Iceland no longer cleaner than anywhere else, what competition do men have? What reason do aluminium producers have to practice their production in this country rather than engage in the same production in Germany, near the factories that make use of them? In this country, however, the cost of transport that people could save in Germany is the same as the price of electricity if it were, in effect, electricity from the same pot, as a mixture of clean and dirty electricity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this fine speech. He went there to a very important subject, which has been extremely small in connection with this matter, the Iceland branch industry. Hv. A senator named Alcoa's company on Austjördur, which has had a great deal to the East Community, a positive significance, I think I may absolutely claim. Hence, it is only natural to discuss how this can affect that article. That's why, for example. I've been elected to the highest. A industrial minister would have come here and participated in the discussion. But what I wanted to think was why. A senator is how he feels this could affect electrical agreements with the plant in due time. They are running contracts after a certain period of time, and we are seeing that within a short period of time, there will be a cable. If you plan to import a pack of three energy, which is nothing more than preparation for the sea cable and sale of energy to Europe - is there not the risk that the electricity contracts with the aluminium companies will actually become upset? They always talk about the EEA deal, they'll be upset. Don't you think we just have a very important deal for a race that might be upset?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u64	President. First, it should be said that, of course, we want them to pay for the energy they use. But we do not want them to pay much attention to being driven out of the country or to see no benefit in serving here. But to answer a question, why? The candidate is the easiest to refer simply to the words of the director of national activation which considered it very important to accept the third energy package to strengthen the company's contract against the producers. Which tells us only that the director gives the logical conclusion that the energy package follows the sea cables and exports of energy and therefore the same energy prices as in Europe. Because if it was right the executives have tried to claim, to agree with this package of energy really does not change anything while there is no sea cable and there's no certain that it will come, then this would probably not be the end of any kind of contract for electronic prices. We have to act this way, and as a community we probably haven't done enough of the last few years, that energy is used to create jobs here in Iceland. More important, it will be used in a way to provide more solid support for the settlements around the country. If we begin to view this as totally different from each other, only profit from land activation by selling energy at the highest price, and on the other hand, we are throwing away the most likely of our most important devices in order to strengthen our settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think this is the key that's very important to bear in mind, that we're throwing away opportunities in the construction of this country by paying for the sale of energy from land. It's just very important to trust our living quarters and to use our resources primarily within the country, to my judgment. It creates employment, it trusts the settlements of the country, etc. as mentioned here, e.g. ... theformationofAustland. When we're about to sell energy out of the country, we've already given the message that we don't think it's more important to build a job at home, which is a rather serious message to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u66	President. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of understanding of this in many lands. I have always felt that the left movement's view of green production to aluminium is very peculiar. By producing aluminium in Iceland through renewable energy sources, we are saving enormous greenhouse gas emissions relative to that in other areas. However, at the left movement, a ◯ green supply has been left very separate in its environmental protection and has been regarded only by what they see in Iceland. We need, to protect the environment of the earth and nature, to view this globally, as a whole. The production of environmental metals, such as aluminium, is an important factor in protecting the earth's natural and climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. Sigmundur The Davíð Gunnlaugsson the talk and for recording, as it were, the economic consequences or perhaps effects, not necessarily the consequences of the third energy package. It is clear that our energy, this pure, renewable energy, is an enormous value of a resource. It has granted companies and industry here in Iceland a competitive advantage, including The high-tech industry associated with innovation and intelligence, which is so closely related to the fourth industrial revolution - and is now talking about five like - and the future, to create data sources or productions and development of high-tech equipment, whether it is in industrial product production that is related to food production and other sources where we have been very prominent. The principle of competition is mainly due to the cost of energy. The pay is relatively high in Iceland, and the transport costs of the product are high as well. However, it is the cost of energy that companies can position themselves here in Iceland and pay a good salary for such a industry, provided that energy is at the right price. [[The president calls.]] When I'm on track here, what? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u68	President. Hv. A senator is on the right track, but I would like to add something else. His words are correct with the competitive prelude that comes with the price. But there is also an enormous deal of competition in selling pure energy. This is especially true in the modern world, since numerous innovations are very much concerned with where the energy comes from. It is designed to form up a number of sources of data that want to boast of being fired on environmental degradation, renewable energy. It so happens that I had just thought about my next speech, where I continue a discussion on the economic consequences of the third energy package, to trace the interaction between traditional industry and innovation, which is enormously strong. Of course, we see many examples of this. We'll see how much innovation has resulted in the international aluminium industry in various ways. The seabed road has certainly produced great innovation. All of this goes hand-to-hand. If a competitive energy price results in the establishment of a traditional industrial company, we will be prepared to invest here and build up, and we certainly have many examples of this, it will lead to innovation and development in even relatively different areas. We always come to the same thing. The energy is the basis on which all the rest are based, whether it's traditional industry, innovation, or public income, tax revenues, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer was Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson. You see, this is a huge deal. Considering matters in a larger context and in the future is of utmost importance. I will only introduce it in my next speech that it is not possible, and actually impossible, to take a stand on a matter like this without examining all the issues on the foundation. Checking a pack of three by itself and taking the legal instructions and saying, "It's just all right, it doesn't matter, it's absolute zero, it's at best, I don't know what to let me use, the simplicity of the case. We've got everything under this clean, renewable energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u70	President. Yes, in fact, it is incomprehensible for humans not to have had the same estimates in Iceland that they did in Norway on the effects of this induction. It may be sanctified because from the beginning it has been a case that the government has wanted to do little, and it has not exactly been looking for something that might fall to the attention, that I do not talk about negative attention. In fact, after considering it, it would have been most desirable at the time when the highest would have been possible. The secretary of finance saw the reason to criticize what was going to happen with this energy package and the common energy centre of ACER and all of this, that he had responded by having it checked out. But I'm not going to blame you for that. At the time, he may not have anticipated that, so to speak, he would eventually find himself in trouble to change his mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. This is part of what I've been trying to get close to my speaking class, which I've called, and then what? The effects observed in the modified environment following induction followed by the catheterisation. The impact on enterprises which depend on energy levels and, on the other hand, the high share of energy spending is not high. For example, we have seen reports that identify the situation in Norway or the situation following the induction in certain areas. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is a real danger that significant increases in energy costs can influence the development of industry, not to mention energy efficient industry, could lose the competitive advantage he has had in Iceland in shelter or in the light of a favorable electrical price? And as a result, the owners of such a business, e.g. Is there no longer any benefit in such activity in Iceland? Do the senator know that the owners of such an industrial community close to large work areas change significantly? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u72	President. First, the last question. Of course, this is known. In fact, I think there are a number of examples of how to make aluminium formation was shut down here and there in the world in recent years. In some cases, people have been found to have closed or reduced their activities, but protection has been turned to the target precisely by producing more energy for competitive prices. I present as an example to the Canadian state of Quebec, who has enormously large and massive water resources. Iceland is in a certain way, and not just in a certain way, in a direct manner, in competition with Quebeck and, of course, in a much larger position on the construction of companies and productions that depend on energy on competitive prices and would prefer to remain environmentally friendly energy. We are not the only ones, Icelanders, to be able to produce environmental energy at competitive prices. However, when deciding where to invest, and progressively reevaluate whether to continue their business, they look to countless factors such as energy costs, such as transport costs, such as pay expenses, etc. When all of this is taken together, we are in a competition not only by energy prices but also by competition that depends on how close to the markets are located, what you have to pay employees for, etc. For example. costs just a fraction of how to hire someone in China to work in an aluminium relative to what it costs in Iceland. However, they burn coal in China to produce the electricity that goes into the production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur for the answer, Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I didn't mean to go on those tracks right away, but I'm going to do it right now in the light of an answer. Senator. It is part of what is particularly flung in what we have already seen in the fourth energy package that the environmental focus appears to be progressively increasing. See what? A senator, of the evidence already shown, that the green part of Icelandic energy will possibly become a particularly interesting contribution from Iceland to the European energy policy once a connection has been established?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u74	President. I briefly entered this very thing earlier, but I was going to make them think more clearly and convey it. It is simply a fact that the aim of a common European energy system and the third energy package is that the energy all goes into one pot and is taken out of that pot. When this becomes really reality, what we already see on paper or as a result of these so - called penalties or constant letters, where it is claimed that the Icelands will buy energy produced by coal burns. We know it's not right, and everyone knows it's not right. It's some kind of deception, like so many of the things connected with this energy package. But when all the energy was actually connected to one pot, it would no longer be an illusion. Then it would be just a real description of where the orc comes from.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u75	A respectable president. In my last speech, I explained that I planned to review the views of two key members of the Independence Party over the decades and to present the concerns they present regarding how energy control environment will be eliminated from the sea cable. I'm going to be the first to enter an article after the former Minister of Education, Minister of Independence, Tómas Ingi Olrich, which appeared in the morning of April 27th. It says, by permission of the president: A change has taken place in the Independence Party. It seems to have followed the submission of their report of the lawyers, Stefán Már Stefánsson's son, and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson, son of Hirst. The report identifies two ways to deal with the third energy package. The second way is to avoid subtracting a controlled warning on the induction of the energy package and, as expected, recording the case to the joint EEA committee. The route offers an opportunity to attend. If the Icelanders were to do that, they would be picking up their right to obtain a reserve from the EU rules of energy that do not affect Iceland. The premise of the passage is that this court stands by the name. If he does not, that is as important information. This is exactly where an important point in my opinion is called upon to be tested for 102. G., although it has not been applied so far, it is not really active and tackled for Member States and the case is reimbursed to the joint EEA committee. This discussion has been held until the age of 102. is not really an active means of never being used. It has been said this way that it is like saying that when the fire starts in a house, you should not use the fire extinguisher because it has never been used before. This, of course, highlights the absurdity of not testing the sources that we truly have built up in the European Economic Area Convention. Sadly, this approach is to undermine the contract much rather than to maintain and support it. With the permission of the President, the former Minister of Independence continues: ▪ The way is to generate the energy package in Icelandic rights but to legally warn that its directives of infrastructure across borders... will not be valid, for such infrastructure is not intended to take place here in the country, to be built. This means, in effect, that the validation of the energy package is delayed until Iceland has been linked to the EU/EEA energy market on a marine cable. It is a traditional retreat, and it is hardly possible to talk about it anymore as planned. Here, a surprising little substantiated criticism of how we have held in induction matters for years is presented. A former minister describes this as an unorganized retreat, which is probably the retreat, whether in business, in government, or in war that is most damaging. With President's permission, he continues: ▪ The subjects of retreat are many and more or less known. Thus, everyone has permission to invest in Icelandic farms and to harvest natural resources in their power of rights. In 1995, fences were taken down when comments and threats came on and after the turn of the century. In a comparable way, the defenses of Icelandic agriculture have collapsed. So there are various ways that the Icelandic government has chosen as a phase in its retreat. The last one, which has led to a mutation within the Independence Party. Of course, there is nothing to say to the criticism much more clearly in the case of a man who I think would still like to speak gently at the level of his highest office. [[The president calls.]] But because of him. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason has been paying close attention to the discussion lately, and I know how to thank him, I hope he'll come here for a story and discuss these views later. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. It is designed to shed light on the attitudes of the political party that has been leading in Iceland for decades and is celebrating tomorrow, if I am in the right time, her 90th birthday. Am I right? And at such breakthroughs, it is no wonder that this class is at the point of asking whether this is a watershed water cycle and the focus of the group, which has brought this political force to a very satisfactory conclusion in recent decades. In New York alone, there have been more than 90 years of independence. And why would that be? Yes, because they have joined in with much of the voters and have received a follow to do so. And what was the policy? It was based on votes that sound like: "Under course, a wide range of appeals, in order to protect the entire nation's interests. " They have done so even if there were some examples that might well have been pointed out. But I don't think it's time for the watershed by the Independence Party, huh? Senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u77	A respectable president. Choose who's got it. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þórhallsson answers. There is no difference in the criticism of these two ex - secretary of the party that I'm going to discuss here so lightly in this and in my next speech, that there is a real concern over the course of the Independence Party in this matter. Clearly, the concern of the class members is in line with that of the researchers. that there is a switch between part of the lead and the nuclear package. At any rate, as I look at it, it is not pronounced at previous levels by the entire body of members of the council, but on the contrary. It seems mainly out of interest to the highest degree. Secretary of State is to put this problem back in time, end the case. Bad is the best thing to do. This is how I see it, so the interest is mainly at the highest level. Secretary of state. To this end, I find that only from looking at what the head of the Independence Party is, the highest. Bjarni son of Benediktsson, has said about these matters, and to the highest degree. The industrial minister of Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún The Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir does not seem to find any harm in delaying the case, at least Until the next fall council. So nobody's mad. [[The president calls.]] This is, I think, part of what causes the great concern of these two former leaders who, of course, want their squad well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason answered. The reason I brought it up here is because I think I've had my eyes in a magazine interview at the time. A senator and the current secretary of the Independence Party, Áslaungu Sigurbjörnsdóttir Arna, describing the transformation of government and the change of direction. Everything's all right. But I had a feeling that in that fistist, she was in a certain way responding to the former leader of the party, Davíð the son of Oddsson, who has written articles in the Morning magazine with no beautying features, made quite clear that this group has left the policy of independence even though he may still think the name, an independent party. [[The president calls.]] Could be that I have a normal diagnosis, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u79	A respectable president. I'm gonna be very careful with the analysis. The Independence Party is still a factor. As many people know them, I love them, even though I am no longer in it, obviously, and I want the best for him. I think this analysis - it's not just the former head of the Party, Davíð Oddsson, who has in some way warned of evolution in terms of the energy policy and other matters; it's one of the former presidents of the Party, Þorsteinn Pálsson, in effect done even worse; he's making the band more difficult by calling them proud deception, which the class is now on this mission. This can be regarded as anything but a complete humiliation toward the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. This subject is very interesting in this discussion, i.e. A third energy package, how the political parties have changed their course - perhaps they have not changed their course, but they do not carry out their policies, do not perform what the grasslands have started. The party - service people have found and sent aside any conclusions, the people who volunteer for each election, and are essential to volunteering for the Generals and local governments. It makes you feel polite to follow the people's will in these matters, and here you are. A senator precisely described how the Independence Party has gone astray from what the root has concluded. We'll see this also at the Agency, that's a big thing, but the forward party's been holding a lot of time in this conversation, in fact, unusually on the break, I have to say. It is mainly the Independence Party that presents this matter. And left greens are sure to be very grateful because it's a very sensitive subject in the left green, so there's a special way around the environment. But I would like to draw attention to what Styrmir Gunnarsson, former editor of the Morning Press, says in a fistful of the will: the greatest mistake the Independence Party has ever made in foreign affairs. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. So I start with the question given by the senator at the end of this article regarding Styrmir Gunnarsson's viewpoint, former editors of the Morning Journal, which he put in an article, upcoming on his blog - then a report from it on the free will - about the biggest failure of the Independence Party in the history of the Party. There is no doubt that Styrmir Gunnarsson has had more insight into the internal activities of the Independence Party than most and better access to information than most. This evaluation of him--then I'm giving myself that he doesn't see the transition between the Independence Party in the Icesave case in his time as a foreign case, which is in my mind rather close to this decision. But I think that it must only be allowed to stand alone that a person in the light of his personal history and ties to the Party is the belief that here is the biggest failure of the Independence Party in foreign affairs. That's quite a statement. Of course, at the same time, it is quite remarkable that there seems to be an Icelandic champion at a silence between political parties in the case. Then I'm referring to the stand, or failure, of a forward group and a council of left greener people. Both classes seem to consider it wise to allow the case to conform to the identifying marks of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I have a certain understanding of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u82	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator said that this is a rather serious statement by Styrmir Gunnarsson's son who has been a prominent member of the Independence Party for decades. And there are other heavyweights that are putting their words in their mouths. The former head of the class and prime minister, Davíð son of Oddsson, has not been deluded by his views on the conduct of its members in this matter. It has to be said at this point that there's gonna be a very peculiar atmosphere, I expect, on the 90th birthday party that's going to be this weekend. It is noteworthy that after receiving a successful story that has been successful in foreign affairs and the nation's fight for independence and land cover, etc., such messages from these heavyweightweights for this reason, on the 90th birthday of the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u83	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think this is now so grown that not all nights are outside for the Independence Party. There is still opportunity to save on a corner in this important matter. Of course, people have, in effect, got themselves into a particular problem, both political and personal, by swallowing this warning approach. But from the standpoint of human efforts to get into the balles, men, and women, on account of the various issues, it is most important to have the courage to take one or two steps back and try to find the rhythm again, the rhythm that has benefited the remarkable independence class for so well over 90 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u84	Mr. President. It is far from true today that the person standing here is an expert in the Independence Party. But there's kind of two things going around in my head right now. First of all, it is not only that, what I'm saying, that has become such a defect between the party's members and the members of the Independence Party. Rather, it is a distrust also as supporters, grass root, or what we would like to call it, the Independence Party carries to its members. This may also be explained because the Independence Party promised at a meeting last year, with the permission of a president: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. Now I don't know what other people in this room think, but I'm not aware that the Independence Party is standing by this declaration. I'm not in it, and then I'm naturally talking about the party's party, because others don't affect this subject except the members of Congress, or the House of Congress. It would be a gain for me to hear the opinion of a man who knows - I said some time tonight, the dark side of the Independence Party, which is probably rude, so I should have said the inside of the Independence Party. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament whether it may be that just the fact that, like the move team, humans are backing up their words in this regard, whether it can affect the dissatisfaction that you experience in support of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. I'm afraid this miserin will test the edification of the independent party's nuclear access to the interpretations of the Party of the National Conferences. I present this estimate as a class independent class for decades and also with greater affection for this remarkable political party. The reason I'm speaking here about testing the ability to work with members' nuclear support is that there are two current issues, which were concluded in a very specific way, but so that, as the hall is called, there were minor attempts to avoid, the technical corrections of the wording that came in the day to be a deliberate way to escape it. This was two subjects that have been very recently discussed, one of which is the construction of the Lands Hospital on the main highway and the induction of the third energy package. I would be surprised if both of these issues were not soared that considerable irritability or discomfort would pass through the coreism of the Independence Party because of the way the council decides to look around the conclusions of a national meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u86	Mr. President. May I suggest what? In addition to what I believe, I believe a member of the Parliament must irreversibly annoy true independenceists, that is the support of the Party, or the leadership of the group of the Marxian Health Organization in Iceland, i.e. the ◯tendens, the excuse, the president, the health minister, to try to tread all those who are sick in their underwear that are identified as the property of the Kingdom Hospitals, and it doesn't matter what they have to do with it. The recovery is now taken back, e.g. eyestone surgery, and I don't know what was on the market once. And that is not to say that waiting lists are completely prolonged. I think this, as well as the natural clinical situation, Mr President, could also be one of the reasons why there are discrepancies between the members of the Cabinet and the Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u87	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It was on purpose that I did not mention the medical system and hallowed the current health minister to it. This is because the Independence Party is fraught with experience in cooperating with groups that may seem to be difficult for the group to cooperate with on chapters. So I'm not questioning it, and I'm convinced, and it's been published in the House of Independence, that there's a lot of intolerance to the current medical policies. But what makes the other two matters so particularly difficult for the nucleus of the Independence Party is that both of them are the case that they can be handled by the sect themselves. The party itself is in control. But in the case of health care, it is a left - green associate minister. With regard to the Land Hospital and the induction of the third energy package, the Independence Party has a konkot. That's what's hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u88	Mr. President. This has led to the formation of groups and spokesmen. A speech earlier this evening came aggressor. paritaprevir Deployed by Davíð Gunnlaugsson at the highest level. The minister of financial and economic matters would have had to change his mind from what he had previously said. Changing your mind does not necessarily mean being bad. That can be good. This depends on what the change of viewpoint is. I would like to, with the permission of a president, to grab down here in the report of an ex-con at the left motion of a green candidate, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, who is a former senator and a senior officer. Minister for the Left Motion ◯ Green supply. The article says: "Psalm is cut down in a box, but Jónasson's count is well - acquainted with the people of the land, and perhaps for the most part, it is for us to remain very firm in our opinions and actions. He has many welcomers, wherever humans may be in politics. With the permission of the president, I will read from this article: ▪ The targets of electricity and water have been unpopular in Europe, such as the privatization of basic services in general. So shocked have been the plan to cut the sausage into slices or packages, and it has been the same: It is no worse than the former sage, says the son of Jónasson. However, according to a review of the third energy package, Ögmundur said that it is the whole road and its final objective to watch, which is a market, followed by the private development of the energy sector in Iceland. He says in his review, with the permission of a president: ▪ Those of us who opposed this trend opposed an approved first and second energy package, and I find it even more logical to oppose the approved packages as well as those that follow. In time, we will lose as a community custody of the energy, resources and processing, and will direct the bruise process. ThatÖgmundur where Agmunds, by the way. to reject the European Union's first and second energy package at its time when the category was in a position of government. ▪ My name is for every social member of the council to come in contact with all those who are now trying to resist this disastrous trend. If those who previously supported the case feel that they are now heading for an unpredictable surprise, they should be welcomed. The marketing industry is building into the system an incentive: to activate, for the most benefit, it further says in its review. In this regard, Ögmundur Jónasson explained that only a careful look at the big picture with a critical mind and with regard to the rightness and duty of interests is possible. That's exactly what we're doing here. This is not, as it is best seen, that the first speaker, the man standing before me in the seat of speech, the od. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, described the viewpoints of that class, and former minister of its class, which in any way have been the longest in the left movement, a political candidate, yet these men reach the same conclusion. I think it's time again to encourage the government and her guardians to reconsider this matter without feeling that they are walking behind their word, but considering that this is taking care of Iceland's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's speech and interesting presentation. Witnessed in Ögmundur Jónasson, former senator, and minister of the left movement, an offer of green, a senator who was able to speak very well for the remaining determination and language. He has just spoken up and made himself available in this pack of energy and has severely criticized his party for the march, and he deserves to be praised for doing so. It is important to remind ourselves of what politicians have promised and what they have represented and then to change their mind to as important as natural questions arise. Why? There must be some solid evidence for what humans must then say. I have not realized that they have reasoned in a way that makes you understand that they have changed your mind. There's nothing wrong with changing your mind. It is difficult to reason, then, that the change of opinion in matters of such importance and importance is a natural matter. What I might have wanted by then. A member of this field is why such a environmental category is paying a street for a project called a three - pack energy package, which can be a major environmental impact on Iceland when the sea cables and energy sales begin. Energy industry is increasing throughout the country at the natural cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yes, this energy package, though not on the outside, is about a large part of the environment, so to speak. That is one reason why this has been called upon by the minister's position, which is, in fact, an extracurricular minister, with a group of environmental issues, which represent the left movement of to the green bid. Regarding the story of the Ögmundur of Jónasson and, in fact, the article that took place. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason quoted earlier, after Tómas Ingi Olrich, former minister of the Independence Party, we must realize that it is not easy for such men to criticize their party and his policy publicly. One thing is to do such a thing, to criticize a policy or come to shape a policy within the store. Another is that in public. Why do I mention it? Yes, it has to be that there are important issues, big interests, and indications that policies on community covenants are being set aside, all of which agree to do so. It's about being on the basis of agreements in what community we want to live in. But we just don't agree fully on the ways we want to reach our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u91	Mr. President. Yes, I think I'd like to look into this matter only from international relations. We are a small nation, which, of course, has much to do with international and international agreements. Of course, we in the Middle East are in favor of having good relations with our neighboring nations and peoples in general. How important it is for a small nation to communicate well with foreign nations! I completely reject the incomprehensible statements that have come from some government senators and, in fact, in our case, the government council members also agree that we are some sort of isolationist group, insulationists. It is as absurd as it can be, and it is just an example of human weakness. That's exactly what we're supposed to do. We are to be critical of our dealings when it comes to such international contracts, important contracts when we feel inclined. That's what we're going to do. It is difficult for us to accept a decree that can exert great influence on us as a nation. Hence, we are to look for ways to come to recognize that we have a special status and that we have a unique status legally recognized. So in all of this, I would say that most of the most important things are not to have any fearful respect for foreign nations, as it seems to be shown in this matter by the governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The thing that's been raised in speeches is that here the Central Party stands isolated in its isolationism and that isolationism is hardly worth answering. That's just so. There's nothing further away from us Middleclass than trying to isolate Iceland. We want to represent Iceland's interests, however, and I feel that this is our obligation. It is so remarkable, however, that those who speak this way can be on the streets of extreme tension over Iceland's being a country, Iceland's great and nation on a global scale, to form if large sports events are going on, if our national team competes in sports or if Iceland succeeds in any field or achievement, whether it is in the field of science or in the field of climbing the highest mountain. Then we are the people, proud of ourselves, and with great dignity, and in some way we stumble ourselves, which I think is normal. There is nothing wrong with being proud of people, backgrounds, culture, and culture. Being such a person does not mean that we do not want to communicate with other nations or reach international treaties. It's completely out into the pagan blue sky, ore. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u93	Mr. President. It was interesting to me. A senator said here earlier. I think it must be harder for former left-green leaders to watch their team take the lead in the marketing of resources and not watch that the structure of windmill gardens and microdoers will have enormous environmental impacts. Two men have gone forth, and have brought these things to pass; and Hjormund the son of Jónasson, and Hjörleifur, the son of Guttormsson. You can be sure that several former leaders of the Independence Party are highly critical of the behavior and conduct of the party in this matter. Except for Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, former council member, the critics are not so prominent in the criticism, perhaps also because they are fewer. So while the Independence Party may. six former leaders, perhaps only one or two in the advance. The Guðni of Ágústsson is natural there too. It is clear that both former leaders and old guys who have carried out these classes, plus the confidence system - it's on fire. That's a very interesting approach. Senator. I'd like to ask her to comment on this, as I mentioned about the advance party and the Guðni of Ágústsson and Frosti Sigurjónsson. It would be interesting to hear what he says about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. It is true that the forwarding party is less and probably has fewer men who are former leaders or who have served as ministers who have been actively involved in political talk in the community. Yet, there is one man who is the former chairman of the category, Jón Sigurðsson, who was once president of the Bifrost Cooperative School. He's been active in national talk, but he's been quiet about the whole thing, as far as I know. At least the collective mind was on the other side, and now it's still that I think the spine is in the policy of the forward party. The cooperative view is perfect in the spirit of the person I spoke to earlier, i.e. the Community covenant that is truly in force and is legalized in various laws, and it is in the various categories of subjects that we deal with and discuss here at the high Council each day, whether in committees or in councils. I have to say, I can't remember anything like this, unless it's supposed to be Icesave, where the formation of such a gap between the government and the nation's leaders and now, as the debate here shows that it's an example and will be written in history books to remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u95	Mr. President. I only want to kill the fact that my ancient friend, Jón Sigurðsson, former minister of the Future Party - I hope we're still friends - has a special position in the forward category of Europe. So I don't expect him to be very upset about this trend. But there is something else I've wondered about, especially now and last night. I began to wonder that maybe it would be desirable or interesting for members of the Independence Party sitting here, maybe it would be just paying them, not to resolve this matter today that we are discussing. So members of the Independence Party have the opportunity to meet their supporters on the 90th anniversary of a cake and coffee without even locking up this matter by agreeing to it. I have that faith, and it seems that men have not listened to the backend. I think it's perfectly clear. In all these categories, I think it's a good idea that men didn't listen to the backyard. That's why I want to hear it. A senator who knows the Independence Party better than I do, if I can't be right that it was just payable to the independent council here not to be finishing this case today so that they can at least pass it unlicited to meet their followers tomorrow, on the 90th birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. As to the candidates, I mentioned for the very reason that Jón Sigurðsson, former head of the category, has the unique position of being a European. If it were now that the people who choose the Agency and who do the work in the category of society, with their comrades outside the country, would be following this case, it would certainly be a sound foundation for the former chairman of the party to put up with his idea if he were to follow this policy, that it would be a step in the right direction to take a step closer to the European Union. He hasn't, and that's why I turned it off. About a question why. The senator, if it could be returned to the Independence Party to postpone this discussion, allowing the party to celebrate this big birthday and to take the discussion in its backyard without having the matter locked up, I think it would be very good. The case is the custody of the party. We're not forcing them to be locked in some closet and to go to the birthday party with someone trapped on their back that they don't need. The party has custody of the case. V.E.G. Of course, a minister of foreign affairs is an independent man, who could best change the course of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u97	Mr. President. I'm a little bit in the direction of still meditating on the leather we got here, middle-class members, tonight, by other senators who showed us what we wanted on deck and what we really wanted to do, and I don't know what we'd have done because we'd taken this chamber and took him hostage, and I don't know what. We have tried to point out that we are discussing this matter because our attitude in this matter is enjoying, apparently giving support to the majority of the people. We have stressed that this case is bigger than political groups, so important that it is not to be locked up in political pits. There is one man I know about who seems to have turned on this and he published a little fistula now yesterday, or yesterday morning. It's called the Parrot, reflecting national willingness to give it its name. In fact, this fine man chooses to call what we are doing here a filibuster, and he says: The challenge that several members of the Parliament have recently maintained because of the government's programmes to accept a package of energy 3 is a reflection of national willingness, as reported in the surveys on the subject. Therefore, they are not to be reproved but to be thanked. I appreciate this, but this may not be what I've been looking for. It goes on to say, with president's permission: ▪ Independence party members have taken up the task of conducting this matter. They're making the biggest mistake the pack has ever committed in foreign affairs. There are not many mistakes, but mostly in recent years. It refers to the plans set out by the then leadership group to change the category's policy of participation in the EU but to be shaken back, when the root rose, support for some members of Icezave at its time, and participation in the illusion by the Member State's application in Marz 2015, which has now been fully exposed. One such mistake was mentioned earlier, which was the policy of a new milestone in the implementation of the fishing law for the 1971 election. As a result of what is now taking place at the General Assembly, large groups of members of the Independence Party no longer trust present members. That's serious. So many were words. And I must say, Mr. President, this is quite a serious word from a man who has been identified in the Independence Party for 55 years, if not anymore. At least he's clear that what we're doing here isn't some middle-class private party, but, as he rightly says, reflects the national will. But he seems to be the only man in this study who understands this. It is more serious and shows to us and to all others that the members of the government seem to be completely out of touch with their support network. It must be a concern, though it may not be revealed because men are simply so deluded that they seem to be running this case through no matter what. They will likely eventually find out what such behavior will mean for them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u98	Mr. President. Hv. A senator came into a situation that allowed me to ask him why. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson out earlier tonight. And I think it's getting gradually, as we get along, more meaningful in this discussion, i.e. This dramatic picture in political development and what a third energy package and its treatment will tell us about how politics are changing, but unfortunately not necessarily in a positive way. They are changing in a way that the groups are not only allowing themselves to betray their own campaign code, which, unfortunately, has happened through the years, that groups have failed their campaign promises, but they are allowing themselves to betray their own policy, their own fundamental policy, their soul in groups, so to speak. This is surprising because it has to do with democracy and its function. I wonder what. A member of these great discussions, important and necessary, was able to note that today, in Britain, elections were held to the European Parliament, which no one now claimed to be done because the British had already decided to resign from the EU. But they have been so reluctant that they are forced to do so three years after they decided to leave the EU to participate in elections to the EU Parliament. It is headed for a political earthquake. See what? A senator, by what is happening here and the situation in the European Union, in view of the fact that this was exactly the case, did not only cheat the votes, they betrayed the direction and soul of their classes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u99	Mr. President. From this discussion, I was neither preoccupied with that thought nor did I think it was very likely. But the other thing is that there are basically two things in this, first of all, whatever. A senator mentioned and is absolutely correct, that the classes are about to go to the edge of betraying their basic policy. And secondly, it's kind of possible to talk about fusion, I think, the VG and the Independence Party because the issues seem to have leaked. Then, on the one hand, I'm talking about the market of energy available on left greens and on the other, with the autologous party, the whole thing's gonna come together. It's where I feel both classes, just like what they're doing. A senator says, is, in fact, betraying his basic theme in politics. After that, the third group dangles in their clothes, with their shoulders and belts, their hairpieces, and their new shoes, and their size starts very little. I could be in there right now, based on what you hear in people, feeling bad, from all three categories, that after we have discussed this, it could easily be punished. Selfishly thinking, they might be right for a party, such as the Central Party, letting this case go through, making it a reality, and seeing if any class that this was written would not be properly treated. But that is not what responsible political parties do, so of course the Middle Party does not. He continues to fight, as Mr. Styrmi Gunnarsson's son rightly noticed, for national willingness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u100	Mr. President. Conspiracy theory broke. I had some thoughts turned on by a senator. I would like to have an opportunity to add a little bit of this theory, but since I don't have time to do it in this short answer, I'm going to use the opportunity to mention the poll. Hv. A senator has referred to polls on the wishes of the public in Iceland regarding the third energy package. Now the results of this election in Britain are not tonight. They will wait for the weekend, the results will remain secret until a decision can be announced in all European countries. However, a poll showed that the British Maintenance Party has 7% members and the Engineers Party is about 13%. The Biffit Party so-called has 37; other categories, which were generally considered small groups, such as the Freeness Party of 19, Greens 12. What do numbers like that say? A senator on political developments?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u101	Mr. President. These figures are more important to you than that, for example, the view of politics held by the Central Party. We're about to have an object development. Well, we've talked about combating a system. We've talked about coming in that which we did, we can't do it again, but we did it thoroughly. But the ideas of this party we're making here are still fresh and new. I'm not sure unless similar events could happen in this country, especially in the light of the efforts of these deep - seated groups to shove points like the third energy package into the neck language of their followers. It's not good luck to be in charge. It's like they think: It doesn't matter what we do, they come and vote for us. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's accurate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's tombstone for an excellent speech and meditation. He came into the conclusion that out of the community, we discussed the practice of the Central Party. Some may look at it so, and they may see it as a talker. This depends on the definition laid down. But what we do here and stand for is to resist violence. And if this is a problem, we're being oppressed, because there's a lot of rescue food in the smaller parts, and we can't control our policy, to continue our discussion in the hope that men will change their minds and take an informed stand, that men will take reason, and that people will consider that this matter is simply the fact that there is no hurry. But it surprises me, huh? A senator, that this is done for a week at the end of a week - here are huge cases to wait and take place at the council - that here make men feel like there's nothing else to do than to listen to middle-class members have a case that could be done in the summer or the next fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u103	Mr. President. You're right on top of it. Senator. It may not have been so prominent in the discussion outside of this building that, of course, the middle class has offered the possibility that the case might be delayed and any cases brought forward, i.e. cases could be handled on committees and committees, etc. That's what's been offered. We've got a big case waiting to be resolved here. But there seems to have been no sound base or interest in doing so. They just sit at their place, apparently, and, I don't know how to say this, they hope we're the middle-class people and just give up and let's go. It may well have been that we had, though big, if we hadn't sensed the national willingness that Styrmir Gunnarsson rightly speaks of in his fist last morning. Because we do not feel free to settle this matter and to vote for it now in such terrible and shouting opposition to the majority of the people's will. It's just not possible. You can't offer them. That's why we're here, and we can't help ourselves, as the man said. This is because it cannot be understood while such extreme opposition exists in society. Then we'd be failing our responsibilities. I still say, this is not about the Central Party as such. It's not about Trinitarians. It's about national willingness that we should acknowledge and accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You're absolutely right. A senator, this is not about the Central Party standing here and bringing up his own flag, not in any way, and in my mind, this is not a matter of filing, because despite the fact that the Central Party has been standing here and discussing the matter for days and nights together, they have shown up at their offices in committees and they are working hard there with the majority and minorities to try to finish the case and take care to continue their council. But that doesn't seem enough. Clearly, it does not matter if we work hard at it. This should be through with good or bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u105	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right. As I said here earlier, it seems that those who are in charge of the Generals were waiting for the CIA to chicken out and turn back. But that is simply not available, for the best interests are so big and the will that we sense is so strong. It will naturally be shown in the discussion that the will that Styrmir speaks of in his fistula since yesterday has appeared to us in all the telegrams and support crys and sharpens that we have received to keep this matter awake and to continue until the end. Of course, we cannot help but respond as we are doing. Then there are other people who don't express themselves here but run on the 10-page television with ventriloquists and shits. We'd be better off talking to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u106	Mr. President. Yes, this is interesting when it comes to political parties who have emphasized that this issue is going through here and are actually trying to run it through at the same time and in full opposition to the root of these groups. You ask yourself, " What is the cause? ' What makes these political parties and their leaders walk so contrary to their grass roots and supporters? And then the natural nation turns to the whole nation, for much more of the people are opposed to this matter. I have a theory in these matters. I think those who hold the government, the government, have a measure of fear towards the European Union. It simply lacked the boldness, the courage of politicians to stand firm in their views, standing firm in our unique position as a nation in an environment completely different from that of the European Union, but they simply do not have the courage or the courage to stand on our unique position in this regard. No doubt the reason they're afraid we're going to get hurt in some way, which is, in my opinion, a complete misunderstanding. I'd like a guess. A senator knows if he can agree with me in this regard that there was a lack of boldness of a powerful and powerful leader.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u107	Mr. President. There can be no doubt. For example, I was amazed at how the head of the Annexe Party wrote and talked to the conclusion that the party was to betray its campaign from the previous year and to support this matter. I thought it was very interesting. I've also found the highest possibleity interesting. The minister of state has circled the country in private, and we do not know whether he was introducing the energy package or presenting Guðlaug's pool. We have no idea. We'll see. But it does not seem that this journey has given the tremendous support of party members to the energy package, but it may have provided much support to Guðlaug's eyes. We don't know. As for the left green, the chairman of its class has not spoken very much of this matter. There were prepared and unprepared inquiries the other day, three in a row for the highest. Prime Minister on the matter. I couldn't hear her answer that she was something burning in the spirit or that she had on that big and big opinion that she anyway wanted to spread out about here. However, I think these three groups have it in common that they are not listening. I think that may be the biggest mistake. Whether this case is going to go through as many evidences are, or not, I think these three groups have lost a lot of confidence in their treatment of matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u108	Mr. President. Yeah, I think you're right. A senator says he lost credibility. I think that's pretty clear after both commenting on it in a talk here at the council and in a publication. The heads of political parties, such as the Supreme Court. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, chairman of the Independence Party, said in a speech over a year ago that we should not submit to common authority in this category, to take such power to the European Union, we were a small nation, and should be the sole authority in these matters. He's completely changed his mind. The same can be said for the head of the advance party. I think this will mean that these classes have to answer for their people when they realize how serious the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u109	Mr. President. By permission of the president, I would like to quote the words of Styrmir, son of Gunnarsson once more. What he said a few weeks ago, if I recall correctly, by permission of a president: Despite the width of opposition, individual members of the administration body of government members and, above all, members of the Independence Party continue to speak as robots, adopt the same assumptions that they alone are carrying the facts, while all others are lying, as well as their listed party members. The presentation does not indicate that the rest of them feel the need to listen to the people of the land, not to mention that they realize that there will be a day after that. That's the whole point. I think these nice people are getting the wrong way because they don't listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u110	Mr. President. I just want to continue talking about the so - called consumer protection that the government groups have promoted, as well as the government council members who support this matter. They have claimed that it is so important for us to agree on this because there is so much and increasing consumer protection for us that this energy package is introduced and that the previous energy supply has resulted in increased consumer protection. Then consider whether this is going to last or not. It has been claimed by these same partners that there is increasing competition, consumers can now reduce their electricity accounts by receiving an offer from energy companies to energy and thus reducing the electricity accounts of homes and companies. In this regard, Mr. President, I would like to point out that it is not so long since the consumer League decided to offer an electrical price for its members. This tender invitation was made in cooperation with Hagang, and the objective of the campaign was twofold. First, try to get a more favorable price on electricity for members of the organization and second, to promote competition for this market. There, the Nettos'organization planned to take advantage of the increased consumer protection that has so many times been said to include these packages. The results are very interesting. As it turned out, this invitation made by the Neighbour Association for its members led only one company to send in an invitation. It was an energy dealer Raric's subsidiary offering 0.65% discount from the current prices. It was now all the discount and all the benefits of this increased consumer protection that was introduced into these energy bags, according to those who spoke most of them. Clearly, then, this is a very limited benefit to consumers. Thereafter, the Neytors Association decided to refuse this offer. According to the League, this conclusion confirmed that there is no competition, no competition. There will be no competition. It's such a small market. Electric prices are low, and consumers do little to direct their business to someone other than they already do. This is what we have claimed, middle-class members, and we have just confirmed this here with reason because everything we say is wrong and misinformed by the council and those who support this bill, they say we're wrong, etc. But here we have every confirmation that the consumer organization went to an tender market and hoped that the power of social bills could be reduced, but it did not prove to be the case. We'll see who all this consumer protection is. She's none. It means going between power dealers and trying to get offers is useless, and it has shown that those who have changed energy sales are very few. We already mentioned that number here. A report on these subjects was made by the ELA Institute of Engines, and it became evident, as we have mentioned, that 0.3% of national agencies changed energy sales, 370 homes of 140,000. [[The president calls.]] It says all that has to be said about this so - called consumer protection, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u111	Mr. President. That's a very interesting friendship as a boy. A senator is here offering and interesting information because there are the natural communities that have spoken most of this so - called consumer protection in this room. I have that feeling now, especially after we have received information on the consumer protection and competition; behind that, there are some dreams that we can work to replace energy companies in public. I see no other purpose in the debate that has been going on under a cloth called consumer protection. So under the blanket, with interest, there is this so - called increase in competition. And this so - called increased competition can only be replaced by the world's largest companies. I would have thought it more honest to have men come out here and say, "Yes, we want to divide the nation's energy companies. Yes, we want the nation's private energy company. In fact, this sentence has been in the Independence category from time to time, preferably just before a national meeting so that something can be talked about at the national meeting and talking to Extra at national conventions. However, I think, and I would like to ask what. A senator whether he can agree with me, that this is the reason for this so - called consumer protection speech, that it's just a cover because people want to be more competitive in the market and divide companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u112	Mr. President. Yes, it's a very interesting theory. A senator and I think she might well be supportive. Not long ago, it was interesting to listen to a radio story called Páll Vilhjálmsson's son. He's a social critic who's been wearing a blog for years, and he's very good at what he says. Páll noted that it is not the experience of other nations that consumer protection should especially be on the front platform of the European Union. He gives a pleasant example to mention here, with the permission of a president: A mother in Spain, for example, can. Not washing laundry in the middle of the day because the electricity is so expensive. But here in Iceland, housewives or fathers can just put in the washing machine when they want. We enjoy energy security, and we live under low energy prices. No one's been complaining about the lack of energy protection by consumers in Iceland. I completely agree with Páll Vilhjálmsson's son in this regard. Nobody's complained that there's a bad situation in consumer protection in Iceland. There's an introduction from Europe, I mean, and it agrees with what Páll Vilhjálmsson's son says on his blog about this, that something is being placed in a special costume that has been so swallowed over here at home. It's just a whole different market area. Here we are over 340,000, and the European market is 500 million people. So everyone sees that we have nothing in common with that market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u113	Mr. President. Yeah, that's interesting. It has also been reported that e.g. In Norway - we've been talking about Norway in this discussion - electricity has to be changing four to eight times within the day, if I remember correctly. The price is highest when it comes to dinner or something, from four, if I remember correctly, and then beat down at eight and then it's over. When people are cooking oatmeals in the morning and so, something like it has been raised. So every minute of the day, almost every minute of the day, people have to have an open website to do their work. I don't know if this is the dream vision of those who are trying to pin this case here through the council at no time. That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u114	Mr. President. Yes, there are indications of this, such as hell. A senator noted that the foundation is being laid for us to have the same prices as in continental Europe when it comes to electricity and neighboring countries. It has an enormous amount of privileges inexpensive energy and energy resources, as Iceland and I have the ability to own. It is a blessing to live in our oppressive country with all these resources and cheap energy. I'm afraid a lot of people would be surprised if we lived here that day that we had to start paying more for dinner. We're not used to that kind of thing. That arrangement, though, is in several countries, as is the case. A senator mentioned. It will only show what danger, so to speak, awaits the consumers, the public in this country if we embrace these commands without any attempt to receive a release in the light of our special status. This has been discussed by the leading experts who know these matters. I testified, for example. in Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, former minister of foreign affairs, who has stressed that we should apply for that privilege and take advantage of the terms in the contract. Others have spoken in this way, and it has been noted that it is important to listen to those with experience and knowledge in this regard. I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þórarinsson's son's offer for an excellent speech that touches one of the main points of the language of those who are supplied with this pack of energy, i.e. consumer protection. The Council has said that this energy package is about anything but transparency and consumer protection. That's all there is. Therefore, people should agree to accept the package without further consideration because there is nothing else in it. Those who do not immediately jump on this wagon are simply Populists, harems, and isolationists. Just dig into this bar somewhere and don't want to know about it. The fact is, consumer protection in this is no good because the energy prices we Icelanders pay us for are actually costing us the cost of production. It's a very small piece of work on top of it. What we're paying more than that is actually what we're using to build up the transport capacity of the system. But to a major extent, this is done by major consumers of electricity. So I couldn't help but agree. A senator and would like to ask him if I have missed something in this energy package that is about consumer protection and will benefit us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u116	Mr. President. That's a very interesting question. A senator: Are we missing out on something? Is there something we overlook when it comes to consumer protection? Of course, you'll ask yourself that when the senators come, and especially on the part of the Resurrection, I'll agree, completely insane, saying that there's an consumer protection on the road and that we should accept this first and foremost in view of that. This has no bad effect, it's all for improvement, etc. It is possible to refute these arguments forever. I know it myself. I've given up my home with electricity, and I don't enjoy the good fortune of having a heating system like many people. The quality of life is a vital quality of life. Having inexpensive energy is also a quality of life. I've tried to change energy sales, and I've had conversations with those people who sell energy, pay our street in changing energy sales. The benefits are so low that it does not work. So I know it very well personally. Of course, it is very sad when members of the Parliament walk in this way and treat things that do not work out. The numbers just show that, including what I mentioned earlier, when the consumer organization went to a special auction for its clients in the eye of trying to lower the electrical price. Then there was one company that sent in an invitation and was reduced to 0.65%. It's all the benefit, so I think it's a responsible part of the council to make such a statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u117	Mr. President. Yes, with regard to the restoration and hearing of the party, the gathering of the last government was 2017, which is exactly the year in which the joint EEA committee decided to send the directive to its state to lift the existing government court order. Why, then, was this not done quickly? There was another class, which is called a liberal class, a bright future, but it does not exist today. There, too, the Independence Party played a vital role, at least not being on time. But there was a restoration to cut near this, to ensure the safety of consumers forever, and to pass the case through. But that did not happen. Why do you think so? A senator said it was?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u118	Mr. President. Of course, that is very interesting. They were there, working with a bright future, and their independence party, like hell. A senator rightly mentioned. It should not be, however, that the Independence Party had tried to ignore this. But at least they do not today. That's for sure. The bottom line is that there is a speech that comes directly from Europe and is translated into the contract here. They think this is the true truth, that there will be so much consumer protection that they can reduce the energy bill by making large amounts of money if they change energy sales. It's just wrong. We have proved it, like many other things we have said about this matter, that it is maligned by the government and wrongs needed to be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. I must admit that I did not comment on the fact that just at the beginning of the second round, supporters of the third energy package held it up in speeches. While members of Congress participated in the discussion, one of the main elements of this induction was the high consumer protection and the opportunity to reduce the power prices associated with the induction of the third energy package. They don't spend much time mentioning consumers' leeway to change energy sales, that's long gone, that's not happening right now. But what got out of control with the instigators - I especially remember that day. The head of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, spoke about it repeatedly, and some agreed, and the work is worth running through the talks for that matter - but it was repeated about the opportunity of homes to reduce their energy account of up to 2,500 k. In a month, I remember that figure mentioned, about 30,000 k. every year. All of this is a very special feature of the information as a matter of course. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson pointed out from the EFLU Lab that less than a percent of the people in the country have made good use of this possibility. It should be noted, too, that it is not little that these companies advertise. These are large commercial traders in which they are being encouraged to move between energy dealers. In reality, however, no one does, and then it is claimed to be one of the main reasons for the induction that there is so much financial interest in this. They need to be examined and to see if there is any sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u120	Mr. President. Yes, it has to be said as it is that it is very strange, but the facts speak for itself. The benefits are so low that they are not involved. Then, members of the Generals and chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee come in front of each other and claim to be quite different. You might ask, " What are these senators doing by bringing these false reports? ' It's just the same way when those same senators claimed that the power bill would be reduced when we introduced a energy package one and two. I made it clear here that the power bill went up to house warming by a lot of people. Then it was just called out here from the hall that it was wrong. First name why. paritaprevir Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's Ásbjörndóttir told the show the end of the week when I pointed it out - I was with her and more members of the show a few months ago, and then I traced it, but then. A senator often said that I was wrong, many times. Here I have shown something else with evidence than with what? A senator has not been able to present any information. Of course, it's a responsibility in the first place. A senator conducting this matter within the committee should take the lead in this way. To me, it is a major concern and serious concern that members of the Parliament take the lead in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u121	A respectable president. Yeah, curse the evidence and the facts. It's not that much energy has been spent beating against us Middleclass people that we're constantly asking for local letters and putting some moisture in these arguments about the induction of the third energy package. I can explain to myself that I feel relatively uncomfortable having been following this discussion for a moment, as I would like to say, from the beginning of the second verse. The nuclear fields that the supporters contribute to the discussion are the alleged premiums with which we are aware of the problem and then this consumer protection and the high cost of such exchange or transfer between energy dealers is to be obtained. Even now, there are no other nuclear reasonings. A senator suddenly sees that it seems to have been more for punts than that reality supports them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u122	Mr. President. That's at least I'm quite aware that this presentation is impossible. They're what they were. Congress officials who have claimed this must answer for this. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president would use himself as an opportunity to have a word with those members of the council regarding these statements of those whom we have retorted. There's no word here about the presence of these senators, most of them are probably asleep now, and that's what this is all about. They float asleep in this whole affair. Hv. A senator mentioned other things that I don't think will last. I don't think it's quite right that the EEA deal is upset by making use of legal rights within the contract. That's such a strange argument, Mr. President, that you're a bit of a mystery about all this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u123	Honorable and painful, Mr. President missed it. I intend to continue my review of the economic consequences of accepting the third energy package. I referred to a previous talk to a Norwegian article, a Norwegian report, which paints a dark picture of the effects in that country. I reasoned that this effect would be even greater and probably much higher in Iceland. However, the Norwegian report was well - known as black in the farm paper. I only had time to give one example. It was the East-Europe plant, which has completely made a difference in urban development in that part of the country. Of course, there could be countless other examples, but I'm going to pass on that now, for there are many things I need to get over as to the economic impact of the government's now proclaiming and trying to drive through at night. What I intend to focus on in this talk is to try to prove that it is all part of the community. This is not just a matter of offering traditional industry, industry, or other industry, to energy for competitive prices but a question of the effect of such activities, i.e. activities that depend on energy on competitive prices, on the rest. For example, there is innovation. New creations are closely linked to the presence of traditional industrial companies, since they tend to create innovation around these activities. We know a lot of examples here in Iceland. The same applies, of course, to a variety of other companies, services which provide larger companies with any kind of service but also rural communities themselves and state funds. How does society earn money? How does the wealth of the state get most of its income? That's in the form of taxes. Taxing the companies themselves, but more than taxes on the remuneration of the workers of the industry, and I restate it, President: not only employees of the companies but also employees of all the companies who either serve these companies or spring up as a result of their activities on the land. This means that if you cut the foundations from the basic functions of this chain - in the example I'm talking about here, it would be a traditional industry - they would also turn the support away from companies in any kind of business or community and to some extent, even to a considerable degree, a state fund itself. This is to be considered as one unit, as one cohesive chain. Now I'm surprised to see what time it is, Mr. President, because I haven't finished this tour. In fact, I was just finishing the opening of this passage, and I will give a talk about windmills. I had given a talk on the offers of water rights. I had almost forgotten, but remembered earlier, that I had prepared a speech on the system over, and the way this case illustrates it. I had promised to finish the story about Cyprus. Then came a whisk. paritaprevir Sæmundsson with a new political theory, the fusion theory, as I call it, but I'm interested in adding only that theory and developing it. And then there's the European Union's energy gauges. There's something that came back to me when I heard it. Councilmen here discuss the consumer protection, the alleged consumer protection, in connection with this third energy package. So there are a lot of topics that are waiting to be resolved here. [[The president calls.]] But I wanted to have the highest. A president would give me a better time so I could get through at least one point in every speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I know this problem. It is difficult to put a whole section of speech away in a brief talk. But it was an interesting party that the senator raised, and I think it is important to what I have in my series of talks, and then what? "Try to link the image necessary to draw from the position which will occur after the sea cable has been laid, i.e. on the importance of the big industry for innovation and growth of the small enterprises in the vicinity of the enterprises and on the other hand, a service base based on a national scale, a specic mass, the service and demand. If we look at the position in the East, where it is undecided that the plant of the disaster has had an immensely based effect, although the structure is strong: It is now the ideal example of the senator. If this stage becomes more real in the business conditions of the company and the plant, after the sea cable has been laid and a pan-European energy prices are under way, how does the senator feel about being on the east side?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u125	Mr. President. I'm not going to publish any prophecies in my reply, and I'm not going to argue that an aluminium would be quickly closed at the induction of the third energy package. But there wouldn't really be a closing point, so this would have a major impact on all these services companies, all of these innovation companies, rural society, etc., which is affected by having a very powerful industry in the part of the country. So let's just say that the company decides to increase the production rate, gradually, reduce the production here. This alone can trigger a specific and very disturbing chain reaction. Then, those who run the company would start saving in other areas. The result, then, would be that the savings of the company's smaller productions or basic companies could easily lead to a much greater recession in all the other companies because the company's reactions were to respond to orders to contracting activities here by saving them in the expense of services - and obviously not making new agreements with companies to develop new technologies and such. This chain reaction may involve a multiple effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u126	A respectable president. That was such a good answer. A senator told me that he saved me a whole speech, where I was going to draw out just the point that the service companies and the secondary projects are first under the knife when it is tight. A fine example of this is seen from the fishing road when the Norwegian welfare board of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was in 2009•2013, where everything went out in the fishing road in a straitjacket and in the most uncertain manner. Then there was very limited innovation and investment in that sector. As the sector was assured that men could continue sailing with calm waters, the opportunity increased rapidly and we see companies such as Skagga 3X, Marel, Wagka, and many others receiving tremendous injections because the nuclear companies, the big companies, have room for investments. That's what'll be the first thing that'll get past the big companies in case things go wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u127	Mr. President. This is very clear because companies are thinking about the future. They look at the overall picture and the long - term, the space they envision, perhaps to five, seven, ten years of age. It would be wish for the politicians and the council, the government, to do more of that. But in view of the way the discussion is discussed between us. Congress has developed over the course of this issue, and I cannot resist reentering an article written on the implementation of the second EU energy directive in 2002 and quoting the Árni Steinar Jóhannsson, which was then the representative of the VG for the Allied Industrial Committee. He said at the time that the state of electricity in Europe was completely different from that of this country. ▪ We in the left movement ◯ Green supply, view the electricity system in this country as a social basis. [[The president calls.]] But then he explains why. [[The president calls.]] - I guess I don't have time to figure this out, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It is nice to consider the economic effects that may be due to induction and induction and directives such as the third energy package. There have been some arguments as to what might happen and what may involve, and there have been a decline in language. Today, some might argue that the induction of the third energy package is a natural development in industry and a natural development in the economy where we replace our traditional industry with something else. We stop producing electricity for a major industry, as we have done here for years, but we go more about producing energy and selling it to other countries. The money it would bring would provide us Icelanders with a lifetime of carelessness. A little new and old. But it is known with aluminium, for example An international enterprise, to the holding of property, is thus ordered that the company that is here, whether it is an aluminium or a cigar, is located here in a country where the motherhood is located in another country. As a result, the mother's partner finances the operation, and the cigar's granddaughter owes it to the mother's club. The daughterhood is actually never profit - run, bringing no profit into Icelandic society or taxes. Actually, the result is negative there. The other, however, can be made by the mother's partner, who is then located somewhere abroad. [[The president calls.]] Is this some kind of recommendation that we can pay attention to in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u129	Mr. President. I know those depressions. But as long as the company pays what we can call a natural price for energy, which does not say that it is an obstacle and prevents the structure and investment, but not the low level of giving to the company an abnormal discount, they make their income into the community through nationalization. It is a huge income, as we may see best because people are discussing using it in a so - called national fund. And then there's all the other stuff I mentioned earlier, jobs, employees' income and all that. What a remark. However, the senator focuses on one of the major dangers associated with the third energy package. It is that the production of energy itself would be run in a manner that is difficult. For example, a senator describes the energy companies here as belonging to foreign investment funds. They'd take out a loan abroad for their construction. When they began to earn their income from an electrical exchange abroad, they would use it to pay off those loans, pay low taxes in Iceland, even none. The result would be that it would be selling energy to foreign countries to create jobs abroad, used in foreign lands to make valuables there. And the income of the energy store goes abroad as well. What would be left in Iceland under those circumstances? What would the Icelanders get for this national resource? I think it's safe to say: the nation's most important resource, if this were the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u130	Mr. President. I may not have been quite clear in my question, but what? A senator is sharp and caught the ball. That was exactly what I was trying to say and ask. If it were a business arrangement, what would it be for? We could then be in a position to create the old industry conditions that would no longer exist. As a result, jobs would not be made there. The fact is, by means of such electricity production, there is a relatively few jobs. It is a relatively automatic industry after the power plants have been built, whether by windmills or by water stations. It's getting a lot of automatic in there. There may be some work that would be related to maintaining the root of these activations or any of them. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's negligible from what we could have by owning the energy and producing it here for a company in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u131	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that it is the harmony between me and the senators in this regard, as if there was an agreement between me and my husband. paritaprevir The son of Bergþór, the son of Ólafsson, was concerned about the concerns of him that did my business here. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson illustrates exactly what I was trying to do and start to do, and hopefully would have added myself if I had gained time, which is that of secondary work, or the income that comes from the production of energy here alone, is very limited. There may be some Guðjón - fearing janitor who is in some station or who is watching where the cable is connected to the country, but the tax returns is negligible in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Whatever it is. A senator is well - known and has established a good reputation for the affairs of the country. Is it well, since the land has been hit by a series of roads and can be said to be located in various ways. We watch health care, we watch the so - called carbon tax of the government, which has gone up considerably since that government began its reign. This year's budget is about 5.9 billion in carbon tax and is particularly severe in the region, so it can be said to be weighed down in the country when it comes to these matters, especially when it comes to electrical prices. I've traced my previous speeches how the electrical prices increased by creating a energy package one and two and by the new electronic law 2003, but if we look at information from the Federal Union of Iceland, we're talking about a tremendous increase in electricity over the mid-2008 period, about 30%. It was particularly bitten on the land. According to the assessment, if you live in a rural area, electricity costs have increased by less than 30% since the mid-2008 period. This is basically another increase, first in 2003 and then in 2008. The electricity cost of the West has been reported to have increased considerably. [[The president calls.]] Can't say, really. A senator, to be simply weighed into the country, especially in these energy packages?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u133	Mr. President. Yes, I don't think it's overhistory that the aims of this third energy package, as described by the European Union, are ingesting a specific mission to the Iceland country. First thing. A senator in particular asks this question, and I now have a welcome opportunity to complete the quote of Steinar Jóhannsson, representing a left green member of the industrial committee in 2002. Then he said about the introduction of another EU energy directive: ▪ We in the left movement ◯ green supply, view the electricity system in this country as a social basis. [...] We view it as one of the continents of the United States. In other words, when this former senator of the left movement speaks of a social foundation, as I heard of it. paritaprevir For Birgir, Thorrinson's Þórarinsson did here earlier tonight, not only does he refer to the natural nature of this resource, the nature of a nationwide case, being higher in the country than in the capital area, being used to build up throughout the country. So that by the term social basis, it is not just a means to be used in welfare matters or things that they certainly do, but that the resource is new as the basis for employment and is built in the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u134	Mr. President. That's where I think it is. You see, a senator has entered a very important and basically the core of this matter, i.e. that we use our resources, in this case the electricity, in our own country, to build up our own businesses, to build up the country's settlements, to build up the country, to build up the country, including. to improve residence conditions in the country, etc. This should be my priority. I remember a senator who spoke of it as so desirable to be able to sell energy to the highest abroad that it would bring so much money to the state fund. What will you do with your money? Are they to be given in a manner that strengthens them in the country? Is that not a job we need? Is it not the most important thing to trust the settlements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u135	Mr. President. I don't understand the thought of restoration, as it were. A senator rightly describes this. But still, I understand that the three members of the board of directors in this case have taken 100% of their approach or at least use the restoration argument to try to convince us of the induction of this energy package. Take it easy. The idea of restoration is taken away by a senator. Does anyone, in view of experience, think that it would be wise for society to develop that the state simply sold electricity abroad and obtained from that income and went to distribute it on some undefined route? There is, of course, that no one believes that this money would be replaced by the government by those who would lose them in the induction of this restoration thought, which I hope to the highest. Mr President is as worried about me as he is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u136	Mr. President. I was only surprised if I should interrupt my coverage of these core points and how it is to stem from the nuclear Böðvarsson of the Sturla of the energy package. However, after looking at the clock, I decided to keep the discussion to the point where it is more likely that others are awake. So I continue my discussion of the minister's viewpoint, even though I am in no position to minimize their importance to the others. Will now be continued by the opinions of the former minister of education of the Independence Party, Tómas Ingi Olrichur, which appears in the Morning article on April 27, of which he deals with the opinion of Stefánsson Motorsson and Friðrik's Árni of Friðriksson Hirst. It says, by permission of the president: What interests me, as well as disillusionment, is that the opinion of the team is of any interest in the participation of Iceland in the European Economic Area (EEA) as in any other international agency. The EU is a political institution, a tax alliance, which has long wondered whether or not to head toward one State total. That discussion is still unpublished. However, in some lands the EU has developed toward an increasing centre. Energy directives of the EU are part of this trend. Tómas Ingi continues, with the permission of the President: When scholars consider Iceland's position on the outside world, national independence, and the scope of the republic's constitution or do not provide authority from the government, it must be important whether such a waiver of authority exists for a recognized international agency, eluded to another state, or political rage, such as the EU. The European Union replaces most of the guidelines set out as the basis for democracy. So there must be a special reason to consider whether the Icelandic Constitution usually allows any room for a power waiver to another state or a multinational tax alliance, which works most in the values of the state. This is a viewpoint that was well - thought - out at the beginning of the discussion and was particularly discussed with earlier ones. this case, but I think it's a reason to keep it up with this discussion and, in fact, to keep it up. In the discussion that focuses on the opinions of the classes on these core issues, the logic is one of which is the defense against the viewpoints that describe doubts about excerpts. From this section of Tómas Ingi's article, I'm going to read one more paragraph. It says, by permission of the president: The measures set by the European Community are not absolute. For political reasons, the EU often deviates from these rules. There are well - known examples of this. I have previously concluded that political pressures from Germany and France brought about national and commercial policies. However, the rules were strict against smaller countries, particularly against the Greeks and other countries of southern Europe. The reason why I wanted to keep this in perspective is that as we look at the scene as a possibility of a sea cable being laid, the European Union's natural nature that is often shining through will be realized, i.e. the position of small-scale interests towards the European Union's main aims is much weaker than the big countries, where exceptions are provided, at the same time as going very hard to follow stated targets when it comes to small countries that have difficulty carrying hands for their heads and have few supporters who are willing to sacrifice their position in favor of the major countries of the European Union to stand up with their little partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for the Bergþór of Ólason. International cooperation, such as in the European Economic Area, shows that we Icelanders are small in us. We say that because we are small, we can trick ourselves and that if we are to have certain ills, we will be punished, that we need to submit to this and that. On the other hand, we can lead, and the nations of the world can learn much from us, and we should take the lead in such matters as environmental protection or the rest and these committees and measures in all international cooperation. But in the near future, i.e. taking a stand within this cooperation that is classified under the European Economic Area, it is hard to believe that we're just a small country, we're kind of a ponytail type, which is not a big deal to stand out of the taglia if we're up in it. It does, however, happen. A senator, that Icelands are in this cooperation on equal terms and is specifically listed in the European Economic Area Convention, an equality of the Member States. Whether the 350 you consider this to be, it doesn't matter. individual or 5 million people, there is equal between parties. All these members, those involved in cooperation on the European Economic Area, the European Community, which is a market of about 550 million today, or the Norwegian population of 5 million, or Iceland, of 350 you. It is important to approach matters on an equal basis, and this discussion should not be forgotten. Isn't that a little important in this, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. Yes, there is no need to hide the importance of the equality in this relationship. But, of course, when faced with trials, we see that the situation is not equal in any context. It is enough to point out the obvious: One reason the British are out of their way is because they felt that they were not listening to them. There we are talking about Britain. Can anyone think that Iceland could have a position in this context, in this national relationship, that a decision would ever be made that someone weighing, based on the firmness of Iceland's interests if the decision against the interests of any major nation - when countries such as Britain and Portugal, for example, would experience themselves as small nations in this cooperation and believe that they will not be listened to their point of view, with known consequences of Bgreit and so forth? We have much to offer, knowledge in various fields. My opinion has been that we should protect our energy to promote our expertise. We are in the world's front row, as amazing as it may be to a small people as few people as Iceland does. We're supposed to be proud of it, but I often experience it so that we're trying to anoint ourselves relatively thin in the worldwide work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the answer. In the context of my first speech, a man looks out for this work in the European Economic Areas and on the inside, into the European Union, where classes like the Cradle would like to set us up. In view of the way the British were treated, how do men feel that they would be able to walk out of that coalition? You'd think it could happen. If anyone does not want to be in agreement with another person, it should be the most natural thing to be able to break that relationship. But there is something else. The European Community has shown great inequity in this and nothing has been done to help support Britain's efforts to leave the European Union. With that in mind, might we think about what it would be like if we introduced the energy package with its damaged warnings, finches, or none of them, and then planned to start having meaning that we had now meant anything else or that we had been given a declaration that this was different - really being said that the European Union would take advantage of some kind of thing if we were to run away from a contract that had already been made?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There is no question that if a Community such as the European Union has to take a stand on a matter in which interests of interests conflict, then the interests of the small kingdom could be determined before the interests of the larger Kingdom would be replaced. We saw this in our most difficult international dispute, in all the last few decades, if not in the republican era, which was Icesave. There, countries, our friends people, influenced in all of Europe to put us under pressure that was to follow, obviously neither right nor fair. This underscores the need for no one to be surprised that the interests of the larger parties are more important to the interests of the people than they are to them, but then they are more important to the EU than to other interests. I don't think it's a chain like this -- I'm not calling it a valuable chain - a partner and a small country in Iceland will always be left over. Then I'm just trying to make a realistic assessment, unfortunately, of our position within this rule of all things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u141	Mr. President. I'd like to go outside the material I've been discussing tonight and night, which is the induction as such, technically and in terms of, the regulations and the agreement on the European Economic Areas, and that may not be fully attached, but is legally established in another way in our society, i.e. the social deal, which has been discussed only during the discussion. The social contract is that we are going to live in a certain community. It is a covenant going on, I assure you, even though it is not bound to one agreement like that, in the manner of our community living, although in politics it explains the best way to achieve the objectives of the covenant. In fact, the social treaty is the result of the fact that there are political leaders and interest groups that make up the daily interest groups called political parties. They include leaders who consider each party to have confidence and courage to lead and to have a clear view for the future, not just for the particular political party, but for Iceland. When I say, Iceland all things, I mean the best interests of the country in a broad sense, whether it's economic or in the form of nature protection or whatever it is, and the people who live in the country. It is a search for a person with perspective and ability to accept a viewpoint because it is a natural aspect of politics to have to work with other people, and the art of conversation is the matter of politics. It is also important that leaders who choose to do this work follow hardly on matters that are of great value to countries and nations. However, it is also important that they are ready to make peace but then put their teeth in and wear bridges when it comes to important matters. So, what's the community deal about, our community? It is a real covenant that is legally attached to the law and in several places. Then I mention to form the Treaty on equal opportunities, social equality, education, and learning policies, that everyone should have the equal opportunity and access to education. Health, transportation, welfare, international interest services, then resource and employment. This is part of this community contract, and it involves a number of aspects of the complex agreement that we have made, and we may not even consider when we are discussing politics or in Iceland. But there is a covenant with the nation. It is important to discuss this because this covenant has been going on for decades and has been maintained among the nation for decades. The basis for this covenant includes: I see the entire nation enjoys the resources that exist in Iceland. We live so well that although Iceland is a hard-sized country, it is extremely productive on resources. There's something odd about that, Mr. President, that we're suddenly going to be in charge and a great hurry to deliver these resources of foreign national power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Delivering our resources to foreign authorities. It's the essence of this case, and it's gonna be the case when it's all over, as the government's going to do, and it's going to be a sea cable. Then we will not have to tell how these matters will be handled. It's just a fact. It's just the nature of enforcing this common market area. Instead, we have the opportunity to seek reconciliation within the joint committee of the EEA and to obtain a permanent release and a solution to which both sides agree. But for some reason, the government has not had the strength or the courage to leave that direction and has declared that the European Economic Convention will be upset if this is the case. We've talked about something here why the government thinks so. In particular, she has offered one opinion in support of a foreign adviser. I'd like an opinion. A senator's opinion of what he believes will be so important that the government will support one opinion. [[The president calls.]] Would it not have been reasonable for more experts and foreign experts to have been viewed as being more broad in the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson is very grateful for his counter-sponsored spirit. In later years the committee requested more experts to be called, but this was not the case. The conclusion was that there was a request for respect from the Secretary of State and the Ministry of State for one foreign expert. Of course, it would have been normal to get more reasonable and to ask a variety of questions than was done in order to get to the bottom of this matter. But what's interesting about it is that it is regarded as displayed inside the Generals web is published in its entire English language, as is also shown in a summary, extraction. The document reveals information that makes much of what might scare us Icelanders to make the decision proposed in a judicial arrangement. On the other hand, if Professor Dr. Carl Baudenbacher's opinion is read in whole, there is information I come to in my next reply where I see that time is running away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. If I understand why. A member of Congress correctly, and he intends to introduce it in a second answer, is at the end of some kind of statement designed to cause some fear or to argue that everything could go the worst with this contract if we don't take the way of the government. In that respect, a person has had a little concern that there are some lines that he has set, i.e. which the government has been concerned about themselves and then put in place, when the person has been hired to write this opinion, that there are certain information that the donor believes is right for them to be inside the table as well. Now I'm not saying that the government gave these advisers a job like this, but it's even now that when the person is hired on a project, you sit down, and the person is told what the main emphasis is, the person who buys the feels that it is important to come out. In case of a moment. Perhaps a senator could take a little further into consideration. It would be interesting to hear that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u145	Mr. President. It was concluded, without legal support, with this highly respected man, Baudenbacher, and a great deal made up of the rating - which was supposed to be legal, but part of this definition is only political - that punishments that might fall upon us Iceland could be in various forms and could go so far that we would be disfellowshipped from cooperation on the European Economic Area, i.e. ... thecontractofthecontraction. But this is entirely without any legal support and is of no support to the European Economic Area Convention. That political conclusion is given to Baudenbacher by walking out of Iceland's implementation. However, in view of the opposition that has developed in Iceland, he gives up the 15th figure on page 7, that it becomes a major part of the implementation of the EU Regulation No. 713/2009 and on the ACER and that the views that have been maintained here and on the joint EEA Committee - use proben: on the joint EEA Commission - that Iceland has agreed its interest in bringing it back to the joint EEA committee with the aim of remuneration for another adjustment or result due to the third energy package, particularly with respect to Regulation 713/2009. It is of particular interest that the conclusion on this reflection of Iceland is short: President. [[The president calls.]] That's the lawyer's conclusion. - It'd be without cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u146	Mr. President. I don't regret that thought completely, okay? A senator, that the government, what should I say, had already decided the result before making announcements for reports and suggestions in this subject. As a result, I believe that once the two most quoted, Friðrik Hirst and Stefán Stefánsson had reported it to the Ministry of State. They got her back to make her better. Since then, I have been able to think of a way that when Professor Baudenbacher came here at the last moment, it was some kind of panitist, if I can put it that way, to look for some crucial position in order to build everything. I'd like to know what it is. A senator agrees with me on this. I feel that the government and its followers somehow were finding an excuse not to do the right thing about the case, which is to deny the package and send it back to the joint EEA committee. So I'd like to ask you a question. A senator whether this is so close to me, in his opinion, that the procedure was in such a way that men were ordering their priors, about. [[The president calls.]] Now I'm not going to reduce the honor of scholars that were there, but you tend to think that it somehow was this way with this advice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I cannot avoid thinking that there was a pretext for taking one way rather than the other. It may not be unnatural in itself. But if they do so, I believe that they should have a mind to follow, and then people should honestly speak that they want to go deeper into this partnership than we have done before and that the goal is finally to enter the European Union. Note, too, that there is no law that opposition to government is necessarily needed. However, there are two groups that have been declared European relationships and have been very honest in this matter and have held it up, that they immediately jumped on the bus. And this matter, I think, came in quickly under pressure that it would be delivered quickly. Because if we look at the board, we'll be in charge, to form a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's Proppér Propune, of the Council's work since 30 April, and more people, speak very clearly about the fact that energy resources should be owned by Iceland and that they are happy with the work being done today on developing Iceland's energy policy and that it should not be given up further under foreign authority. But now, in less than a month later, it's just some whole other landscape on top of the table. The men who spoke that way three, four weeks ago are speaking completely the other way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u148	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think that's exactly where the dog is buried, that men got the opinion and information they were about to be sure they could do enough to turn those few members of the council they had on both sides to make a tossierge of the question. Because I don't feel entirely alone that this group of members of Congress who are a few turn in the same direction is just as short or long as they change their mind completely and take 180° turn in this matter. I have a feeling somehow, I don't know if. A senator agrees with me, that there were all efforts to beat the people together, as one calls them, to make sure that everyone was with them, and that men only used them to reach that goal. I just want to hear what's wrong. A senator has this to say, because it's almost certain that men are missing the opinion that the package will be rejected and sent back to the Joint EEA Committee. Human beings are completely pushing past the possibilities and focusing on opinions that do not include them. However, the most dangerous thing that men now claim to have followed was in itself to assume that this will be done, but in a very careful way, because the fine scholars involved in it would not want to get involved in politics, and I understand that very well. Yet, it was this intention to reach out to those opinions that they knew would give them good results. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's for it. Yeah, I think it's true that there was a set way that men thought would be sufficient to get the case through. But what I don't understand is the same thing. A senator is the reason why he chooses to pass this issue through in this way. For the committee, there were a number of people and sources of reviews that have been largely considered in this or at least some of the above discussion. The statistical evidence shows that about 70% of the sources were opposed to bringing in the third energy package because it was thought that it did not serve the interests of our Icelanders to do so in the way proposed. There's something you stop at if you have to. A foreign committee will take that position after consulting the stakeholders and a large part of the committee is opposed, and the Commission will conclude that the best course is to do in contrast with what most would like to do. It's a pastry of democracy. In the end, the government seems to have been in need of some kind of carrot or some tribunal to use to convince those who were still uncertain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u150	Mr. President. One of the opinions that gave a review on this subject - and now I have to start my talk by saying that it seems that the members of the team who were given the time to get in trouble. A foreign press committee also had some control over the fact that when the case was taken out, there was still a number of visitors who could not be accepted at a committee meeting - but a review was made by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs. They described themselves as opposed to the third energy package and suggested that past mistakes not be repeated. If I may read a small piece, with permission of the highest power. President, they say: The spades scare. Politicians, after counseling selected experts, private and marketd the banks with dire consequences as well as giving the authority over our fishing grounds to a few chosen people who have then mated the hook. That's their opinion. Then they say, with president's permission: ▪ Don't let the mistakes of the past fail. Let's keep our energy on national property, because it holds the interest of the households forever. It goes on to say in my opinion, and I can, in part, totally agree with that word. It says, by permission of the president: The Hostage Association also wants to point out that neither ministers, political groups, selected experts, or others who recommend the third pack of energy will be responsible for their actions when the consequences of these continue to weigh heavily on future generations. This in itself is extremely difficult to deny entirely, because such language has also occurred during our discussion, i.e. that those who are stuck with the consequences of what we are doing now are our children and grandchildren. In itself, there is little comparison that those of us who are older here at Congress will experience some discomfort, as it were, of what is to be done, but this will mean a great deal to the future. Of course, this view was not listened to, and I don't know why. However, this review did not mean much. In itself, it may not be hoped that this is the case when governments do not even listen to their own supporters and when men are in positions that are quite new, as if left green is the market of energy sources in Iceland, which you thought would not happen. But when you get older, life comes as a surprise. In this respect, it has been surprised that the national market supply of energy in the United States will be left to the point where this energy directive will be returned to Iceland and there is no way back, except by a way that I don't think anyone will want to go, i.e. breaking up the EEA contract in one piece. But this matter is so undeveloped and so poorly designed that it is the main threat. It is true that in our discussion of the matter that an approval of this energy package will lead to a person's becoming, and then I'm talking about the public, a great criticism of the EEA overall work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. Whatever it is. A senator came in is the European Economic Area Convention and if they were under it. I'd like to recall that the only senator, the only person who's stood here in a chair and actually claimed that it was possible, would there be some way to deal with that deal simply by resigning it, was the highest. Secretary of state for the first year. ... aboutthiscase. It would be kind of a puzzle that if the guards didn't think there was just one way out of it and that it was breaking up. He repeated that he was not in Europe and that he had never been -- I can't remember whether it was from this platform or from other sources that he spoke of as one of the world's founders, an organization that fights against the European Union, or is at least not accepted there. It may well be at the top. Secretary of State appreciates it as a practical option for Iceland. But I don't think anybody wants to see that we're going out of the great cooperation that we have with our fine neighbors and that there's no way we're going to be lucky for Iceland or doing anything that's threatening the deal. But I believe, in the same situation, that the way is to follow the deal and return the case to the treatment of the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]] Can we do it? A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u152	Mr. President. Yes, we can agree on this because at the beginning of the discussion, it was in itself possible to set the benefits in two simple ways. The second option, i.e. The best option. The secretary of state, and it seems that more of the Generals intend to follow him in that way, has legal uncertainty. That was, and all agree, all experts, no matter what conclusions they made, it was a simple conclusion. Other findings, i.e. To dismiss this arrangement and reimburse it to the joint committee will result in, as we have seen, political uncertainty. It has, of course, been observed that we politicians are nearly dealing with political uncertainty every day in some way, sometimes with much, sometimes less. But because everything makes double, we can never walk, or rarely, that some things completely prove, that they go exactly as we're supposed to, or as we expect them to go. But to go this way, i.e. Which include political uncertainty, there need to be some courage and boldness. There are qualities that do not exist in the present government. They are very little among the followers of the government and the followers of the people. So we're stuck with this, and that's why this adventure may be going on if this model is approved and implemented, as the evidence indicates. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u153	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that everything in the world is fleeting, and at times it has been said that nothing is certain except to have to pay taxes and then death. Maybe that's true, anyway, so I've paid taxes but I'm still alive, there's uncertainty about how long it's gonna be. It is the same with these agreements as when we move in the environment, living environment agreements, as the EEA Convention is and the European Union is, that is, evolution and change. There is no way. However, there are ways that are more likely to follow. It is always more likely to work against the law than to do law. Now, the European Economic Convention is a law that binds us to national rights with very clear guidelines on how we should conduct matters when it comes to negotiating all the changes that take place on the contract, new inductions, and changes in the environment. The agreement is clear that when we face such things, we are obliged and right to comply with the agreement. I have to say, what? However, a senator who is here this time chosen by an example that, as in the raw meat case, is afraid to go back on the wrong way and risk being sentenced to pay damages. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u154	V.E.G. President. That's right. As a matter of fact, humans also seem to be in such a hurry to draw closer to the European Union and Europe. I remember calling this syndrome sometime when we talked about it. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson - and I sort of named his party, he was not very pleased with me, which I called a straw vision, which is contrary to a view of the world, because those who do not believe in this pantheon want to communicate with and deal with the whole world, but not with the muleizing of Europe, which is because of an elf going down, if we can put it that way. There are other markets and cultures that are flourishing in a far more bold way than there is. That is why you ask: " Why bind yourself to this part of the world when the whole world is under itself? ' I'm not gonna talk about when we take control of the transport media we can handle in any normal way. Perhaps it is some desire to unite with this region, and this relationship is even stronger than ever. I don't know. However, it should have been done in such a way that it should be done in such a way as to stand because the danger, like the wind, is so dangerous. A senator rightly pointed out that we have just stepped into the spade by not making legal enough for the raw unheated meat. But it's just a lot bigger interests, and we're going to get a lot more damaged if this has been misinformed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He went through a review and discussed some of their comments and importance in this whole process. Then we have news of it, I think it's the right thing to remember, Mr. President, that 70% of the data with this bill is negative towards the introduction of this energy package that tells us a lot of things. But it does not seem to have any effect on the government's plans to run this issue through. I took note of one statement that has only been discussed here and quoted, that is the comments of the National Association of Iceland, which in many respects are very great and good. If I get to quote the text a little bit, Mr. President, by permission, then it says here: It is therefore the ASI assessment that the market has already been too far into shallow areas and that the cost of confirming and extending the market is too far. They add that market areas have not usually improved their services, reduced prices, or improved staff status. It's a pretty tough case of criticism about this energy package. I wanted to hear from what I heard. A senator how he feels this could affect the relationship between the state and the United States. It's coming through, for example. News of the fact that it is even possible that the lifetime agreements will be canceled and that they are just now out of the oven, as they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u156	Mr. President. It seems that the government sitting here is not very good at listening, whether in large or small companies, the public in the country. It does not seem that the government takes the time to listen to the voices of the people outside this house. You might have thought that this government, this fusion government, would listen to the common people of this country. Sadly, though, that is not the case, and there is nothing to say. People take a particular risk by doing so, and, in my opinion, the risk is considerably high. I don't quite understand how people are going to see beyond that fire. Like what? A senator correctly points out that some members of the common organization indulged that it is possible that a newly established agreement could be dismissed, which would be a natural shock if it happened. Another issue is that the whole sector is still at odds. I don't know if the government's listening conditions will get any better with that negotiation. It is quite clear that it is difficult to negotiate with the common organisation with this type in the back pocket, which obviously means rising energy prices, which, in turn, increase the index and raise the second cost of households. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I share this concern with him. I'm deeply concerned with the unambiguous nature of the German Union's comments on this matter. First of all, there is great concern about where the rest will be. If this works, the actions of the government will be introduced and the case run through, how does the Common Union come to see that issue? Of course, their concerns rightly turn on, such as that. A senator mentioned here, an increase in electrical prices that results in implementation. This is now being done just in terms of the monitoring fee at the energy companies, which will increase by 45%. It'll go into the prices. It's been reported. The power companies have already reported that. On top of the biographer contracts, it is natural poison in the bone of the labor movement that there will be increases in goods and services right after collective contracts. This can lead to the simply resigning of the contract. And even, as I mentioned earlier, came from the Common Union a declaration that I could do so, which I agree with. A senator to be a great shock and shock to the government and to all of us, to economic stability, and so on. I don't think that there's a Foreign Affairs Commission that could see the consequences of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u158	Mr. President. I'm going to repeat what I said in my previous answer that this government does not very well listen, and in itself it doesn't have to be surprised that 70% of the energy pack three should be negative when we know that according to surveys 62% of the population against this same package. But the government doesn't listen. And she does not listen when she is, we should say, point out the solution, i.e. Many experts have identified the obvious solution of the EEA agreement itself, but the government does not listen. The recent group of people has also noted that this possibility is near - poor and self - esteem. But the government doesn't listen. When governments fail to listen to their subjects, they do not usually end well. That's why I'm just as worried as what I am. A senator here asked. I'm worried that the consequences of accepting this show-up will be taken seriously. And I have a belief that has also been made known here in this discussion that these packages will not be agreed to the same peace for the whole EEA deal, i.e. that the opinion of the people of the land or the attitude of the agreement will not be the same as before. That would be very sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u159	Mr. President. I'm just going to step back to whatever situation we're dealing with. The government will present this issue very late this spring. The matter comes to the State Department and stops for a relatively short time. It is held at brief intervals, and the matter is passed out of the committee in a very short period of time. Then it enters the Hall of Congress, is discussed here, and they participate in a discussion on two meetings days, I think. Then you just drive it through. We've been discussing this matter here for a few days, Middle Class, without anyone answering us or getting involved in an independent talk. Then I ask: " Whom does it serve to bring up this matter, as it has been in the council? The government was in a position to put the matter into practice earlier during this assembly so that there would be more time on both committees and Assembly Hall. In particular, I would like to reiterate that this is a pact proposal to discuss only two discussions. It's not a law that goes through three discussions. I want to use the beginning of my talk to point out this, especially because this is a very important subject. This is an important issue because it is being considered on the important resources of our country, the energy resources, and so it is important that it be given time at the council. Also, because a number of surveys have been conducted on the nation's viewpoint on the matter and have led to the conclusion that the 60,480% of the nation is strongly opposed to the approval of this judicial decree. At the same time, it has been found that the majority of the members of all classes are opposed. The decrees of the members of the administrations, the forward party and the Independence Party, have been contrary to this issue. The National Assembly of Independence Party concluded that he rejected further expansive authority over the European Union's Icelandic energy market to its institutions. How much details can be drawn from this issue? It's a review of the case. Most of them are negative. What is the significance of the matter? I talked about the nation's most important interests. I'm also going to point out that lawyers whom the government has called to advise have many of the individuals discussing and pointing to actual governmental doubts on the subject. The case is controversial among the people. We are not connected to the European electricity market. That's a fact. The EFTA countries have shown understanding of our situation. The European Commission's Council of Energy Director, the European Commission, has shown special understanding of our situation. The way to solve the situation is at the EEA Convention, at 102. ..... The way to get an exception from this. Rather, you ask yourself, " Why run this issue through in the way we have seen it here? ' The vast majority of the reviews of a number of individuals are negative. The vast majority of local envelopes or everyone is negative. The vast majority of the reviews of various organizations are negative. The only positive comments, except a few, are reviews from government institutions or energy companies, most of which belong to the State. This is the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to grab a little bit off the cover of the Industrial Association. In many ways, this is well - worked and well - mannered. They'll discuss the benefits of the EEA contract and I'll agree with that completely. Then I specifically noticed that competition in the electricity market is an advantage for the public and the job. We've been through it, and I don't think it's really been that there's a competition here that really mattered to consumers. But this is the conclusion of the Industrial Association, by permission of the President: In view of the above, SI recommends that it be agreed on and that the third energy package will be approved here in the country. This is an interesting conclusion in view of what is said here on a cable. It says that a cable is not compatible with the policy of the industry. Now it's clear that this case, i.e. energy package three, the induction which the government is planning on with this case, is preparation for a cable. I think it's quite clear because there's so many things in this process that lie that this will be part of the joint market. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator was aware of this in his review and how he feels about what I would like to call him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u161	Mr. President. No, I hadn't come that far to review the comments. I had studied the comments of many prominent peoples and rural groups and some others rather than the firms of industry. I'll share comments with you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, was the source of the Cathedral of Industrialism. I find the comments from the local communities interesting, too. I find it very interesting how they present their doubts about the need for the implementation of EU energy directives, such as. You can read in the account of Mr. Slanthrop, by permission of the President, from the crisis meeting schedule. It ends with these words: The European Commission has questions about the need to accept the third energy package. There's nothing more to say about this. You may not have to give talks for days to point out that this is exactly the case, Mr. President. What's the need? A more detailed review of the areas of the Blue Forest contains these comments, with permission from the president: It is hard to believe that the Agency does not have the authority to desist from the approved Allegorium because of its induction and that it does not include the execution of decisions that result in an increase in electrical prices. The development of the development of energy and government power in the hands of the Icelanders is strongly emphasized by the development of the development of the development of the Blue Forest. On the part of the Blue Forest, it is strongly emphasised that domestic energy will be used for domestic production, but not exported as raw.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator especially thank him for pointing it out here now and, indeed, in his speech earlier in the night, what attitude many fellow members have already felt toward this package of energy and how many are opposed to him. Many questions arise that the government does not listen. It's natural to get along well with your rural society. However, the State seems to treat rural society in a way that makes it seem quite unwise on the part of them. That's where I mention, for example. changes in the balance fund, which has been much discussed and cryoconservation of funds that will cost hundreds of millions of societies. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot to care about, and thank you. A senator for pointing out this thing with his locals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. He said the government wouldn't listen. I'd rather just say this as if the government doesn't listen. And what? A senator expressed it so that they did not listen to their rural communities. I just want to say this more clearly by saying, "They don't listen to anybody. They will not listen to any man as I have traced from my speech. They don't listen to their dues, exactly what they're doing. A senator, but they don't listen to the general public, and they don't listen to the individuals who send in applications. They do not listen to the experts, many of whom have warned about the use of power. And they don't really listen to the Central Party at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u164	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for excellent speech and even better answers. It is interesting to sit and listen to the answers and talks of a senator. I'd like to thank him for bringing this point to the debate about the communities, which are not a small part of what would be considered Iceland. The rurals live in the people. Companys are in very close cooperation and communication with the government. Governments and financial partnerships are closely linked to the financial affairs of the State. The professional life being carried out in rural areas is closely linked to the State, and in fact, the community is already divided into certain units. If such rural areas view it as negative to introduce a three - pack of energy in Icelandic and then bind the Icelandic state to a national right, then it is not advisable to listen. Senator? You'd think there were heavyweight operators out there who should be listening to this discussion. I can't understand it any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Thordddsson for his meditation and question. I put it this way: The government was not listening to anyone, and I mentioned several examples of whom they did not listen. But I forgot, of course, that they do not listen to their own parties. Nor do they listen to the warnings given by the government's legal advisers; they do not listen to them; they listen to their warnings. Nor do they listen to their own conclusions. The National Assembly of Independence Party, Iceland's independence party, literally reasoned against the introduction of a third EU energy directive. The forward movement team had also inferred against the induction of the energy directive. They don't listen to locals. They do not listen to individuals. They don't listen to voters. They do not listen to the majority of the nation. And they certainly did not listen to the Central Party. Yeah, yeah. A senator named the locals. It's the Slurpee Company's review. It was adopted by nine votes against nothing that the government wanted energy decisions to be made in the hands of Icelanders. By permission of the president, their review states: The importance of all energy decisions in the hands of Iceland, therefore, is unequivocal. In this regard, the Constitution of Iceland does not allow the expansive expansion of government to the foreign institutions. The situation in Iceland is far different from that of the European Union's fundamental energy legislation and it is therefore unwise to implement that rule here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There we go. A member of the U.S. Segregation of the Country Society of Tegafur. There, representatives of the local community appreciate that Europe's main ideals, 550 million people, do not fit north of the province of Skavetir. No wonder! There are very different circumstances. What makes all of this so striking is that everyone against the induction seems to have studied the matter from the premise of looking into the future, not just from a pack of energy, but from what may follow quickly and in length. The conclusion is that we should reject the energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u167	Mr. President. No, they certainly do not listen, even though they have been pointed out by all these sources, many sources, and others, that the way is clear. The path is clear, Mr. President. The path to this case is clear. It's under contract. It's legal, and it's been referred to many times. It's in the 102nd. The Convention on the European Economic Area where it is possible to ask for this and to be excluded from you for reasons that are logical. In fact, there is a willingness in the European Union. Based on the declarations of their representatives and on the declarations of the EFTA countries, Liechtenstein and Norway, there is also the will to show Iceland, which is so far removed and unplugged, a clear understanding of receiving an exception from the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u168	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech. Hv. As reported in regulations 913 and 914, a member of the body has made a comprehensive impression on the way in which the defences are laid down in this case are of limited value. And then the effects will be obtained when a cable, whenever this is carried out, and what effect will then be derived from the package introduced, taking into account that it activates all the regulations and procrastination involved in problems are involved in the administrative matters. Really, you have to deal with all of them. I want to pray. A senator may consider going a little deeper in the timing of the controlled probatives, which are delayed by the current approach? The answer -- I'm leading to something else by - is, of course, at sea cable repair, but when they surface and in what context they put the third energy package and its induction compared to that if we made sure that the sea cable would be laid right now with the approved energy package? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir And Bergþór, the Bergeth Ólason for the question. That was a very interesting and interesting question he raised here. I'd rather give a special talk about it, but I'd like to give a reply. A senator when he says that this legal warning was taken over and that they are of little means. I'm not, frankly, sure that I've been informed about the source of this warning, this legal issue presented by the government, that it will be introduced by legal notice, so in the singular. Since then, we've been allowed to listen to members of Congress, not just recently, but at the early stage of the matter. They came and pointed to them, but they didn't point out the same warning, and they were pointing in all directions. We've had at least a minute. five editions of where the legal warning is located. Right away. A senator says that they've been crossed over and that they're short, that it's only half told natural because we have no idea if we're arguing with the right legal premise that the government considers to be. Senators haven't been able to point him out, they've pointed in every direction. We've taken everything they've mentioned and reasoned it here. Of course, there is no hold in those we have information about which they consider to be legal notice, such as a recent Regulation; a law issued up here in Shadow Environment by one minister in Iceland's government, that it is the legal prerogative. I couldn't believe my ears when I heard that. [[The president calls.]] I just can't believe it's the legal one. Because, of course, there is no restraint.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u170	A respectable president. Just so I understand the senator correctly, legally, is it not? Hjaltason After all the discussion this has taken place, would it be possible to conclude that there is no real priority, since four or five warnings have been made by the rest of the institution's supporters? An emissary of the State Department came in for an interview, reminding me of Tuesday morning. and pointed them in a far different direction from the previous day. Is it possible to conclude that there is no support for any of these matters and that they do not simply take the matter back, postpone it, and work better until the autumn? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u171	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. He asks the question: Is there no real defense? I'm not going to make that claim at all. I'd like to believe this guy's been hiding somewhere. I'd also like to give the board a chance to direct us to him, even though he is late, completely relaxed, and will watch it positively if there's a new suggestion about where to find this legal warning. But the other is so different and much more serious if they're to bear it to people that it's being done in such a careful way that there's a legal reserve and then it's so obvious that it doesn't hold, it's a serious matter, as I mentioned in this Regulation published by one of the highest standards. Secretary of the government of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Of course it's perfectly safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u172	Mr. President. I want in this speech merely to move on to my rural society and put this matter into play on them. It is of interest to address an article recently written by the European Commission, Guðjón Bragason. I'm gonna let me quote her a little bit. By permission of a president, Guðjón það það það það það þurðinn að þurfjörður þurfjörður að þurfjörður þurfjörður þurfjörður að fjörður að fjörður þágjörður. Clearly, there is a great interest in wind efficiency. They plan to build windmills. Foreign investors are interested in that. A Guðjón also says, by permission of a president: It is important that any decision-making approach, such as the visual impact, the noise pollution, and the impact on bird life, as well as the price of wind plants suitable for landscape locations. Therefore, I find it a little strange that the Environment Minister has not brought anything into this discussion because it is quite clear that those who are heading for such structure will be linked to this matter, i.e. The induction of the energy package, so they're looking at how it's being sold to Europe. This suggests that environmental considerations do not seem to be sufficiently high in this discussion. It is as if the main environmental organisations are only silent when it comes to the third energy package, which raises questions. It is a question of whether they are not well informed about what lies ahead, and of course they should be participating in the discussion in a much more meaningful way. Bragason's Guðjón, the head of the Union of Icelandic rural society, makes a bold statement when he says that the lack of policy appears to be a mark of the debate on energy issues in this country. It even appeared. in the absence of a clear position by the government on the ideas of marine cables to Europe and its impact on energy production in this country. - That's absolutely right. There's got to be some sort of course here. Is it not the wrong end, Mr. President, when this way is being opened by the induction? Clearly, there is a lack of policy in the group. I think there's got to be a lot of thought about this because there's a lot at stake. This is where investors buy territory. There is great interest in building smaller structures below 10 MW, which do not need to be evaluated. So there is an environmental impact on this matter, and it is clear that there is going to be a much better approach. That's why we've emphasized the challenge, Middle Class, to postpone this case, Mr. President, at least. Until the fall of the year to gain a better view of how this will affect e.g. on the environment and the environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u173	Mr. President. What a significant viewpoint that was! A senator tore up his fine speech. But I would like to give this information that a few weeks ago I asked for a written answer. The request is directed to the highest level. Industrial minister and adviser to obtain information on some of the factors that might be considered. In his talk, a senator mentioned the matter. This is a question of study permits published by the Power Agency over a period of years and of activation permits by both the hydropower workers and the wind power workers. In this regard, I expect to benefit from the fact that there is clear answers and readily. I believe this is a very important matter. Hv. A senator mentioned a lack of planning, and you wonder in the light of the current trends that any member of the country, abroad, are buying up valleys and foam, and are in some way putting yourself in a position to stand here for energy production, perhaps also in the light of the principle, perhaps no exception, that the activation of this size does not have to be replaced by environmental assessment. This is a lot of concern, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u174	Mr. President. Yes, I agree that there is a natural reason why applications for the activation of 10 MWs increase so much. They don't need the law to go to environmental assessment. But I'd like to state that I'm not going to be the only one who's applying for this permit that they're thinking that there'll be a future opportunity to move all the energy out. I mention, for example, that the Blue Forest is now operating under the activation of less than 10 MW. This is a drainage procedure that did not require environmental assessment. HD Energy is behind this project along with landowners. This specific procedure was not required for environmental assessment, but executives were asked to do so, showing that this project is well carried out. Environmental impacts are negligible, and I understand that the comments received in this process are very few and no such comments have been made on such projects. So there are certainly people who do these things well. What may be the most enjoyable thing about this particular project, which I find necessary to mention here, is that the energy that will be produced there will be new in a greenhouse, etc. The idea is to use the power at the site. [[The president calls.]] It's the natural key to all of this, that we do, but we don't start selling it out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is an interesting example that he brings up, and he is delighted to see how well things are being done and how much responsibility are shown by taking the initiative of calling out for environmental assessments. It's a pleasure. In the context of which we now discuss this matter with the third energy package mentioned, where there are ideas of at least legalization for possible sea cables, of course, has meaning in the view of gathering when it comes to meeting. It takes only ten activations with a 10 MW power to have 100 MWs if they have their pants on. And then it is a natural question whether through the induction of the energy package there will be some defenses if people here for this purpose, perhaps of foreign origin, are gathering themselves with these types of activation options and possibly driving them in front of the government here some requirements that could be adopted by this energy package. In fact, this case is not fully examined in all respects. There's a bit of a symptom in this case that it lacks very little that it's properly informed. There is a need for research in this case in a number of areas, and one of the reasons for the environmental impact of this energy package is unexplored. I refer to a statement to form the Hjörleifur of Guttormsson, who is before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u176	Mr. President. I'll take my mind off this. There is a great fault in this matter, no matter how little the environmental impact is. It is clear that when this induction becomes reality, the groundwork has been laid for the next step that will become the cable. Technology is spreading in these areas, so I don't think there's any question that such a string is closer to us than there are many wise ones. This requires that we sell our energy abroad. That's what makes nature pay for it because there's a lot of pressure on building more fortresses, wind power plant, etc. It is nature's primary cause to suffer, as it were. I wanted to establish one of these issues because we've been discussing our rural society and the relations of state and rural society in this regard. About 80% of the potential for efficiency is the exception of real estate assessments. This is something that needs to be discussed in this case because it is possible that this could be contrary to the State Developmentology of the European Union and the European Economic Areas. If this were actually to be illegal, for example, we would find considerable financial expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u177	Mr. President. We have had much to discuss in this discussion about how this matter has been established. It has been proposed that the energy package could be approved as a legal arrangement. Or perhaps you can turn it around and say: It is said that the energy package can be approved because it has a legal requirement. As people know of the discussions, the legal arrangement is still uncertain. It's time for him to be found. One of our council members, experienced in police work, has applied himself to that matter, and is here from time to time, reporting. It may be true, Mr. President, to look very briefly at the legal environment we have here. I'm going to be quick to witness in two places, as time goes by, in David, the Davíð of Þór Björgvinsson, EEA, and national rights. He says on page 88: To the EFTA powers, particularly the Norwegian, this was not considered to be a direct influence, including: because it involves the exposition of a legal authority that would go against their constitutions. Therefore, this aim will be achieved with the procedure recommended for the a- team 7. The European Economic Area Act. - 7. is a natural very important article. With President's permission, it says here: It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his step. 7. par.] ▪ These regulations are taken up as a whole into the national rights. The method is, therefore, that Regulation is legalized as a legal document of law or government regulations, according to Davíð Þór. He gives examples of legalisation of regulations by law, but he states that a different method is to implement regulations via administrative regulations. This will follow these regulations as package leaflets. That's what they know. But it is also appropriate to take a closer look at it on page 101 of chapter 35 and chapter 3. The European Economic Area (EEC) law: The EU Treaty, on the basis of the Community agreement, emphasized that there would be an EEA rules of priority over the EFTA national rights of the EFTA countries in the same way as the EU rules have a priority on the national rights of the Member States, which may be incompatible with them. This was considered necessary to provide EU rules the same as the same rules as the same in the rights of the EU Member States, thereby promoting a consistent implementation and the implementation of common rules in all economic sectors. That's what it says. I quote the book 35, which is the whole way: Since this agreement aims for a homogeneous European economy based on common rules, without the approval of the parties to submit legislation to the institutions of the European Economic Area; and as these objectives, it must therefore be achieved by the national legislation. In view of cases where there may be a conflict between EU legislation and other specific laws, the EFTA countries commit themselves to set, if necessary, the legislation that the EEA rules apply in such cases. Mr. President. This is the important review of 35, which would be a good reason to discuss much further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson For a most interesting and illuminating speech, the son of Islesiah was given. Now I know what to do. A senator, Dr. Ólafur Ísleifsson, knows something about reading books and how to approach science. He quotes the book's author, Davíð, as well as his approach to the legal method of implementing regulations and how this will affect national rights and national rights. Quote 7. The European Economic Area Convention in the Act No. 2/1993, it reads: • Factors referred to or found in addition to this agreement, or decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee, binding parties, and being or being recorded in the national rights as follows: a. The product corresponding to the EU Regulation shall be recorded in the Member State's rights; b. a type corresponding to the EBE Directive shall give the Member State a selection of form and method of implementation. Is it to mean that the manufacture of a directive or directive cannot be carried out at the same time in a national regulations that the European Commission's Regulation or Regulation gains the value of national rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That was exactly what I wanted to offer with my short speech. We're here in a very firm legal environment that has to do with its own rules and laws. Some articles have some explanations. of historicity, as I sought to draw forward. And that's exactly so, like a cot. The senator saw clearly that this is an introduction to a very big case, with consequences as is attributed to the existing opinions and, most important, to the subject of the Four Árni and to Stefán Már, which are most commonly mentioned. It is claimed here that it is now safe because it is legal. But the authorities who say such things have such a burden of proof that the legal effort to do so will have the desired task. First, the question arises: What is the national value of such a warning? As has been noted so many times, the search for such a warning lies ahead. There was a question about him on May 15 of that. Four o'clock. Then the chairman of the Party of Independence was asked if he had seen this warning. He did not recognize it. Since then, many statements have been made regarding the location of the captain. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has already examined this and has described his findings in that no of these warnings would be of any value to national rights. [[The president calls.]] However, the burden of proof is not his or ours but that such a document has meaning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u180	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He mentioned that this obligation rests on them why. Council members who claim that there is a legal guardian here who maintains water to prove their point and unmistakably demonstrates it. It is similar to what is being handled by the council, awaiting the removal, the raw matter that deals with this precisely, that the induction was wrong. We thought we had a warning that just didn't hold water. And how much did it cost the taxpayer? $3 billion, Mr. President. Yet, the sum of the amount of money is one of the damages that would be incorrectly implemented to us when it comes to energy and the amount of money that is playing there. Hv. A senator mentioned the problem. paritaprevir The year's Ármannsson and his speech on May 15, published by Jehovah's Witnesses, suggested that the induction of these regulations and judicial decisions be carried out in a traditional way. He was traditionally saying that he was not just a senator. This simply means that the Regulation will be fully implemented. And if it is to be fully introduced, why not make it more honest to say so to the nation plainly that there will be a three-sized energy package, dot? There'll be no notice here, and there'll be no one here who can call if it's possible and if 18 feet were to fall on one dog.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u181	Mr. President. It is in this context that this matter needs to be discussed. With the approval of the synonym as discussed here, the administrative officiating officer on the scene of the joint committee is removed when she decided to pick up this energy package in this large - scale mare that is there. Then the question is: When the synonym has been accepted, and the administrative premise is canceled, what protection is left? Then there's no other way to see that we have the decision here at the Council to establish a national commitment on the part of Iceland to provide the legal value, which means the full legal value, the actions set out on the basis of the joint EEA committee's decision from May 5, 2017. This includes Regulation 713 described by the outstanding authors Frird Már and Stefán Árni. The effect may be summed up by the induction of that Regulation in three words: organization, arrangements, and management. And this is true of the nation's energy resources. This is so precisely attributed to this opinion, Mr. President, that it can't be lost to any man what's on the move here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u182	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker, who was very interesting and aware of the problem. A senator has taken a very good look at the legal opinions of the already sought specialists and has especially been aggressor. A member of the Council of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Már and Stefánsson, who has been mentioned frequently in this discussion, is well acquainted. However, it is essential that members of the Parliament make a success of such opinions, since these are crucial and have often been quoted. What I would like to come into this relationship is to quote one of these experts, with the permission of a president: It can be reasoned that there is a greater legal uncertainty in the way the government intends to conduct a third EU energy package than if the Council refused to accept the energy package by not subtracting controlled warnings for it. What I wanted to ask you. A senator in this regard is, because he has a very good knowledge of these opinions, as I mentioned: What do you think? A senator who chose the government to choose this route, which must be considered strange, because it involves more uncertainty? Is it a fear that the deal will be upset? Or what does the senator most likely consider to be the reason?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u183	Mr. President. There is now one mystery in this matter. Why does the government choose to overlook the central position of Friðrik and Stefán Már? Their basic proposal for the case, after considering it as thoroughly as it turns out, is that the case will be handled at the site of the joint committee and there will be agreed that we Icelanders will be spared the types that are appropriate for us here. The government and the Supreme Government. In no way has a minister of foreign affairs explained why another route was chosen. Government, highest. Secretary of state and what. The head of the State Department here at the General Assembly has no clear explanation in what this court order is. There's been a lot of speculations and theories here, and there's an increasing number of them, as I talked about yesterday. There are individual members of the board who present some of the issues they claim to be such a leader. And how can it be, Mr. President, that the government can't see its own dignity in taking from all doubt about it, where this legal court is? Where is the legal opinion on the national value of such a warning? Why is this theater of absurdity made to stand so day by day? They are here doing volunteer work, such as driving a car. Officer and former county officer. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, using his police experience in trying to inform this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u184	Mr. President. Thank you. In view of the fact that the government must, of course, recognize why this route is chosen, a member of the council responds and agrees with it. It is surprising that the second best route is not fully clear. It's not the best way to go. It's very special. When the government offers implementation, for example, the lowest and probable best offer is taken because it is the most practical thing for government funds. In this case it must be best for the state funds to accept the best solution. But for some reason the government is not interested in that way. But that has not been reasoned. I think it's very interesting as hell. A senator says that the highest. The minister of foreign affairs should not have supported this, nor should the chairman of the foreign business committee. This in itself raises questions that are unpleasant. Is it not, then, just increasing the uncertainty that this journey can bring with unpredictable results? We don't know where that road ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u185	Mr. President. You ask yourself, " How can I find myself watching this? ' Minister of State, that his supporters, or supporters of this case, are being brought up here with all kinds of theories as to what this legal arrangement should include. I mean, on his part, they suggested that it would be safe to accept this case because the price of the law is legal. He then looks up to the fact that the rest is being held down for days and so on in each of the legal requirements. The chairman of a panel of Independence Party, in response to an answer from me from May 4 p.m., informed the matter in his own way. Since then, this search has been standing and at the very top. Secretary of state. Why is it taking the highest. The Minister's not out of all doubt about this? Also, there is trouble. Chairman of the State Department, which is still here. Why don't she go out there, huh? Senator, in the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to resolve the issue? Is that for the government? Is this for the best? Secretary of state? Is this for the advantage? Or are they so sure that nobody reads anything, nobody asks anyone, nobody has any critical thoughts in this support team, that it's all right, and that you can do this, that there is no one who really wants to know the first, that the source will be perfect and complete, and we're stuck with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u186	A respectable president. I'm going to allow myself in my speech to come back to the viewpoint as former minister of education, Tómas Ingi Olrich, stated in the morning issue of April 27, 2012. Since he presents his point of view with regard to the third energy package, under subheading: limited power but considerable will. With President's permission, Tómas Ingi says: No such reference is made in the opinion of any of the members of the panels of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik's Friurk Árni Hirst - ▪ that the Icelandic government has the authority to resist any linking of the cable to the EU/EEA nuclear power market. There are no approved exceptions to such scopes. It suggests only that a third pack of energy does not require the Icelandic government to establish ground structures across borders. However, it is the spirit of all EU energy legislation to establish a joint energy market for Member States and to transfer energy across borders to complete that market. This does not mean that the European Union can block sea cables across the purpose of EU/EEA energy companies. This issue is actually left unpublished by the authors of the group's opinion. Tómas Ingi Olrich continues, with permission from the President: It is very naive to believe that the European Commission has full resources for the European Union's energy market in the EU/EEA if it is not included in formal accessories and only testified to the political proclamations of the Iceland State Minister and the Commission of Energy in the EU. The statements of these officials are in no way legally binding. Here is one of the main points that we have been trying to point out during the last few days, that all the references to the case are to ensure that the case is presented in an absolute way, are of little means, or is not kept. And a large part of it is a covert that turns to fix a sea cable, the other meant foreman, that the scenarios are missing completely, which is the minimum limit for the government to set up for us as to what will take place, and each situation must be fixed. I'm going to continue witnessing to President Tómas Ingi Olrich by permission: It is not possible to rule out the possibility that in Iceland's countries, there is already a plan to connect with EU/EEA energy market through sea cables. As a result, the work is of great interest and is considered to be a valuable asset. The Agency believes that electrical prices will rise, but is less optimistic at that rise than the Þorsteinn Víglundsson. - That's where you're pointing to what. paritaprevir The restoration, Þorsteinn Wazowski's Víglundsson, who has developed his viewpoint on the development of prices. Are plans for land activation made in a void, or are they supported by the government's goodwill? - Just ask Ingi. To close this section of Tómas Ingi's views, he continues, with the permission of a president: ▪ In view of the exports of the European Union's Marine Strings, it is obvious that they are superior to their own interests. It doesn't matter whether the Agency's argument from economics or an environmental point of view is ignored - not to mention the interests of the Icelandic industry. The question that wakes up is whether the government is out of control or if it is in harmony with the councils. This is another point in itself that has not been discussed with this discussion. However, the answer has been made not to change electricity laws as separate from the General's approval of the sea cables, but to the prelude to the government's position that Generalis is involved in the matter. This is the reasonable view expressed by Tómas Ingi Olrich in this article. It is surprising, of course, that members of the Independence Party do so little with this cautionary viewpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u187	I'd like to, Mr. President, grab the ball where it's at. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason divorced him, i.e. for caution, as has, e.g. Tómas Ingi Olrichur's writings were marked and encouraged to be reasonable and cautious, especially in the case of this size. The legal opinion that has special significance - all of them very good that is available here, end up with the best and best men - but the opinion that has a special significance is that of the Friðrik's Friðriksson Frildursson Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson, as it sets the lines on the two lines that have become a cause for great debate. I'm going to let myself say, Mr. President, that from the distance these cases are of course color, standing beyond the control line, the opinion of Stefán and Friðrik Árni must have been a serious blow to the government when it comes first, because of the fact that the consequences of the induction are clearly expressed regarding foreign organizations and the provision of the nation's energy resources. Apparently, they are asked to revise it to some extent. This is seen in chapter six. But they stand firm, sticking to their main proposal, that the matter be handled by the joint committee. And it can be traced any longer. Maybe I'll do that. Maybe I'll have a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isle has answered. Yes, I can imagine that the opinion of the experts Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Fridek Friðriksson of Hirst was quite a shock to the government, at least, to the extent suggested. One is -- I don't have the opinion of the team in a pontta, but it's clear what the mind of news editors is about referring the case to the joint EEA committee, that's the best option the experts have. But then, of course, there is a particular concern, and there must have been thought and discussion within the government, at least Within the Ministry of State, i.e. the point to the main point that the management panels are being delayed by going the way the government eventually chooses to go, that they are actually postponed until the sea cables arrive. Then, when regulations 713 and 714 have been introduced and put into force as a matter must be handled by members of the Parliament and then to take up a discussion about the possible sea cables from the very context. But as I say, I think it would be wise to complete these facts here, and now it's about to take control of the prognosticants. As it has happened during the discussion, my position is that the experts should follow the advice and refer the case to the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u189	Mr. President. The situation is this: The government has the best legal opinion. Some say it's safe on a administrative level. But there is a very careful opinion, since it is bickered on at least two counts, that authors concluded that they feel that there is considerable doubt. In such cops, each word is thought - provoking by writers, and it is not said to the contrary when there is considerable doubt. That's a point. It also reviews the consequences of the induction of these types. These are the ones I said: Foreign organisations regarding the organization, the provision and use of the national energy resource. However, the authors have stuck to their main proposals, both in the final statement and in a letter to the minister of foreign law, which is dated April 10th. They have not wavered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u190	A respectable president. No, that is exactly what happened during the day in this open letter that experts Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst wrote the minister of state after the matter was discussed and after they introduced their main report, that their position is not about the best option and that the administrative matters are merely a postponement to the future. So I have to admit when we put this into this context that it is clear to everyone that there is no time for this. V.E.G. Secretary of Industrial Affairs, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, declared it in November. that there is no basis, therefore, for the matter to be prepared until the fall of 2019. In fact, her words made it possible to read that she could not afford any further delay. I think there are a lot of reasons why we should hurry these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u191	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. It was interesting to listen to language over a matter. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason and what. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Izz the son of Ísleifsson about this matter. While I listened to the members of the council discussing it, I was reminded of a saying or a reference that reads, with the permission of the president: ▪Bonus pater familias, or, as it has been stated in the legal language; the good and the noble father of the family. It is a description of a person and is often used in a song about how to behave when it comes to public behavior or negotiations: What would the good and angry father do in such situations? Then there is the cautionary man, the man with a family, and therefore a considerable amount of money. If that were too much to ask of the good and to be a family head in a matter as such, he would examine all aspects of the matter and try to reach the best - served conclusion of the family, i.e. Iceland in this case? I'd like to have some thoughts at ease. The senator on that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. It is now that we bonus pater, my partner, have not been traveling through life step by step, but often we are on a similar roleum, I hope. After listening to a discussion with another one. This case, I think, is absolutely certain that he would be wise to take the matter off schedule, postpone it, take the time of the arrangement, and open it again in the autumn. Because our friend bonus pater would be well aware that the matters of opinion that have been presented here at the second round. ... that there would be no sense in creating your own interests and family in uncertainty because of poor and limited data and in the chapters of some song - I'm not going to use the word misinformation, but a number of arguments and corrections have been put in costumes other than the case when you're looking at them. If we just look at the warnings, how poor they seem, if we look at the alleged consumer protection, which supporters say is coming in now, but came in with the first and second energy package in fundamentally, etc., I think, that all of this would be respected, that bonus pater would lean back into the seat and say, "We'll delay this until the autumn."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u193	Mr. President. I have to agree. paritaprevir Bergthó Ólason as soon as I thank him for the answer. I'd like to, with permission of the highest. President, testifying in a speech of the highest order. The minister of the Guðlaugur of Þór Thor Þórðarson's son from April 9, U.S.A. in the previous discussion of this synonym: In this relationship it is also very important to share a common understanding of the EU energy manager at the uniqueness enjoyed by Iceland in a common energy market. Also, the experts who have been consulted agree that the common understanding builds a strong foundation for the induction. Although the declaration does not have a legal influence, it has a legal significance, and it shows that our parties have the same understanding as we do on the basis of the induction. The leaders on which the induction is based are legal warnings, but this declaration does not have a legal significance. Counts 'em out. A senator's concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't think it would be unreasonable to plan to expect either the warnings to be okay or not, not to be cast aside by one or five premises, depending on who was counting and who was evaluating the warning. Then a club should be advised about the fulfillment. Prominents such as these in a talk are the highest. Of course, a foreign minister may do nothing but reduce the lack of confidence in this alleged advance when the minister who has put his full trust in them and apparently has no more faith in the outcome of knots than in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u195	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It's very interesting to go through the reviews received by the State Department on this matter. I have previously quoted reviews from former minister of foreign affairs, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson. But I'd like to step aside one thing I haven't mentioned before in his review. Jón Baldvin's former minister puts this information to good use and asks questions. He limits his comments to answers to questions he presents. Here's a question he's asking, by permission of the President: Will rejection of energy input package 3 [...] upset the EEA contract? The answer to that question is no. However, there must be a significant probability -- I repeat, a strong probability - ◯ of an unforeseen and unfavourable consequences of the unsurpassed and unfavourable consequences of the European national interest, will undermine trust and promote national opposition with the people at the EEA Convention, as already shown by Norway. When, for that reason, it is inconceivable to map the proposed legislation today. It's very logical of the former secretary of state. What I wanted from what I wanted. A senator in this regard and his opinion of this is exactly what this is, if it's not the point, that the EEA deal will be upset, as the government puts it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u196	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer from what happened. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. I believe this is exactly the point, that by means of the approach that is now proposed to be put on fortified pressure on the EEA, pressure that is absolutely unnecessary. I don't see, and I'm quite discouraged from understanding why the producers of the third energy package, which I think can allow me to say that all the supporters of the EEA Convention and the wants to be around him, he'll still be one of the basics on which we're living, do so little with these worries. It's made up of many people in the community, a lot of experience balls, so I'll allow myself to use that term, men who weigh considerably in the discussion and analysis of such matters. The concern of very many is that a floodly third energy package, as is currently planned, will put much more pressure on the EEA Convention than ever to refer the case to the common EEA Committee on the basis of 102.g. To answer that question, I agree that it is unwise to approach the matter this way, and we should listen to the advice of experienced ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u197	Mr. President. Yes, I have to say, I think it's very convincing with former minister of state Jón Hannibalsson Baldvin. I don't think this was too much of a conversation in this room and with regard to the whole thing. I now state that I am not a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. But it would have been very interesting to learn how much discussion took place within the committee of the comments of Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson. We all agree on that, and the Central Party agrees that the EEA deal is very important to us. He is. It's totally out of the question that we in the Middle East want that deal dead. But we certainly do not want it to be, like a dog. A senator mentioned, going through a case that can upset the deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is obvious that if any of the concerns we and the members of the Central Party have been talking about in recent years. If this happens, it will put a lot of pressure on the EEA Convention. If the situation does not result in pleasure, we find ourselves in that situation, then there may be no other way to fix it than to cancel the EEA contract. It must be the responsibility of those who want to run the case through as it is now done. It's not gonna be our responsibility in the Central Party. I have to admit that I have been amazed at how small the emphasis on the induction of the third energy package as it currently stands has been on the minds of the next steps, so to speak. [[The president calls.]] Then what?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u199	Mr. President. I would like to go to my next few talks, where the session is short, to take a few samples from the alleged legal hearings given by the officers of the energy package, which have appeared in the previous and subsequent discussions where it appears that it is possible to get a follow-up to express itself here after we have taken a considerable deeper look at the contents of the EU introduction and Directives of the EU no. 72/2009 and regulations that follow that induction. A lot of the ensuing debates show claims that my cohesion knows ill water. But I would like to, with the permission of the president, to read from the speech of two. The head of the State Department and the chairman of the branch office and the majority - opinion of the State Department of Foreign Affairs, explains why. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir: Then there are resources at last. The third energy pack, as mentioned earlier, has no effect on the control of Iceland over its natural resources. This understanding was trialed in the joint declaration of the European Commission's declaration of energy, from 20 March onward, by Minister Thor Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, and Miguels Arias Cañete, the European Commission of the European Commission. The declaration stated that the current provision of the EU's third energy package would have no effect on Iceland's state of state over Iceland's energy resources and that the European Union's electronic cables and internal energy markets are totally restricted by the Icelandic government. In the induction of the energy package, this is Directive No. 72/2009, says in 35. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. B-aide. "Of the appointment and independence of the government, the Power Institute, which is then an independent authority and is not taking orders from the government, by permission of the President: ▪... do not seek or accept direct instructions from any government agency or other government or private organisation for the implementation of the surveillance projects. This requirement for close cooperation, as appropriate, with other relevant national authorities - which are then in other countries - is ▪ or for the general guidelines published by the government without affecting surveillance and duty accordingly. Volume 37, gt.How can I help you?.......................................................................................................................... V.E.G. President. How do you agree that this will have no effect on Iceland's government over Iceland's energy resources and that the right to decide the power of electronic cables between Iceland and the European Union's internal energy market is totally at the hands of the Icelandic government? These decisions are determined by the national rule based on the induction and by the 72/2009 Directive. I think it has become clear that, despite the fact that the situation was extremely successful and that much time was placed in it, I concluded that it was not worth enough time. I'm not gonna say people weren't trying to make a good impression. However, after reading the talks and declarations of the directors, I believe that the matter was soon brought about under intense pressure and explained why the matter is being worked, as this suggests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u200	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. I believe that it needs to be realized, and it is quite clear in my mind as I discussed earlier, that the government is subject to shock, to receive the result of Friðrik's Friðriksson son Hirst, and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson, in which they repeatedly say about the Constitution, that there is a great doubt that this case, the instigation of this energy package, is a constitution, and the consequences of the introduction of the energy package are that foreign parties, as they put it, at least An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. When the government was in this position, getting this opinion, it is assumed that it will take some form of conversation with authors. This discussion is reflected in chapter 6. And in chapter 6 of our opinion, there is evidence of this. It is then thought to be, and then it is by means of these two means, a main proposal, and something called a legal means, to which it evidently came into existence in late stages. Then it's obvious that they get some sort of encouragement, or you don't know what. At any rate, they are moved to write a letter on April 10, and in that letter they clearly confirm that their main suggestion is to give the matter to the joint committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u201	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his counter-sponsion. Yes, they come to the conclusion, the Buddies, in their opinion, laid before them. The Foreign Affairs Committee, and then again in this letter, reiterate that this is the legal way. One of the things that's been reported on the management hearing is that the EEA can all be in confusion, and it can actually cause our expulsion from cooperation if we decide to go this way. They're based on political opinions, but not on legal matters, Carl Baudenbachers's, but they're missing that in the opinion he says, about the issues that have been established by the joint Commission and that the Icelanders have been concerned about this opposition to the energy package, that it is well possible to refer the case back to the joint EEA committee to try to negotiate another or changed conclusions to Iceland. That's quite interesting. During the short time it was to win the case, and with the short notice it was made, it seems that for some reason, people have sought reasons or reasons to take the opposite course. I have to say what. Senator: I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u202	Mr. President. The point is clear. The legal premium is aimed at making up for the development of this energy package, regardless of how it may appear, to make up for it that the directive's directives fail to meet the requirements of the constitution. It's the main outcome of the Fear of Friðrik of the Árni and of Már Moas; it's intended to do so by some form of postponement. But we have no legal opinion to care for the national value of such warnings if and when it is found, so it would be a responsibility to accept this matter before such a legal opinion is established on that aspect. But the other, Mr President, will not be saved, the consequences of which have been attributed to the fact that foreign parties are being received here at least An indirect effect on the organization, provision and use of national energy resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u203	Mr. President. The opinion of these respected scholars and the letter that has been discussed in recent talks is not the only case in which these esteemed scholars have expressed their opinion. In an interview at RUSA of August 30, 2018, Stefán Már Stefánsson is asked if a power agency is included in a pack of three energy. He says, with President's permission: ▪ Yes, I suppose you have to answer yes to that question. That is the main theme considered to be what Stefán Stefánsson has learned after clearly considering the matter for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u204	Mr. President. All I want to do is continue to go through the opinions of former minister of state Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who is in many respects a very good report for the Foreign Affairs Committee. It points to the growing value of clean and renewable energy in due to international commitments in climate. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: Therefore, governments are obliged to shape a future policy on the management, use and distribution of this valuable energy, so that the most national interests and interests of consumers are maintained. This should be done before continuing to go further.◯ This is what a former foreign minister who knows the best thing about the EEA deal came up with it in his time, and of course we should listen to a man who has such a comprehensive knowledge of the agreement and his implementation. What I wanted to ask you. Is this not something we should present to the joint EEA committee? We are not ready to implement this directive, including On the grounds that we must shape our future policy, that we have not, about the control, use and distribution of this valuable energy, a future policy where the nation itself will be able to achieve its shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u205	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I understand that the Icelandic father of the European Economic Convention, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson and former minister of foreign affairs, is there calling it a time when the Icelandic state no longer attracts energy policies and resource policies and attaches it to national rights. He may be trying to suggest that it should even be bound to a constitution without me saying it. He proposes this because he knows what the directive says when giving his resignation. A- force 36. Directive No. 72/2009, for the general objective of control authorities, says: To promote, in close cooperation with the Agency, the monitoring authorities of other Member States and the Commission, competitive, safe and environmentally sustainable internal market for electrical energy in the Community, and an effective market for all customers and supply in the Community, ensuring appropriate conditions for the efficient and reliable operating of electronic networks, taking into account long-term objectives. This long-term aim of the European Community is to link all countries of the EEA and the European Community across borders and within the border and integrated system to allow the pure energy to be free from contamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u206	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and would like to commend him for the simple way he summed it up in almost one sentence on the European Union's goals on energy. It is very important to keep doing so in this discussion all over because that is the point. The European Union has a goal. But what are our goals? What are our goals as a free and sovereign nation? We need to shape our policies, shape our future policy on control, use and distribution of our valuable energy, resources that bring us an immense quality of life. It has to be said at this point that we have to start at the wrong end. Of course, the first thing to do is to shape a course with the nation and then go on to see if it would be suitable for us to become part of this common market of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u207	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. That's a very good question, huh? Senator. What are our goals? Don't we need to know what we want before we take these steps? If something is settled, the speeches of those who now lead the government, it seems that we are going to hold full control. And considering that we have a group working on energy policy proposals, we seem to have energy policy for Iceland according to Iceland's future interests. This energy policy, although it might be to some extent adapted to the European Union's policies, may not be well known to the European Union's policy. But the European Union's policy cannot be ours.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u208	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I could sense his words the emphasis he put on lax preparation for this matter and how badly it is made in itself. It seems that it was taken in some panic way to contribute at this time of the year rather than to contribute in the fall, as originally expected. It is natural to wonder why such a decision is made and why a decision is made in such a hurry and rash way to make the case now, but do not allow an original plan to be made in the autumn. Now we know that litigation is under way for a administrative court in Norway because of the same energy package that will be taken up by September 23 of this case. I have wondered if this package will be run through because it may be that this corruption will be illegal in Norway for the European Court of Justice and Norway's Constitution is not different from ours. The question is: A senator's opinion that this may be so? On the one hand: What do you think? A senator on the risk of doing this in such a way, if the procedure had been introduced here, and then she would be condemned illegally by a government court in Norway? What status would we be in then?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u209	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's quite clear to me that there's something unsaid here. In terms of the question, in what situation we would be in if the lawsuit in Norway was lost and we thought we were on some notice, I feel that we are in a position to be the ones we are doing, who aren't the ones Norway is going to be lost, even if they are others, because the matter is likely lost because it is not usually possible to make an advance of such induction. Then we are simply in a position that, as a matter of fact, we have, in the conventional way, and in the other hand. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ishundsson has studied what traditional induction means by quoting the book of Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son about EEA's rights and national rights, and we are simply in place and simply becoming part of the internal market of Europe and by hearing all that is stated in the Directive and in the third energy package. After that, a fourth pack of energy and a fifth pack will follow, and we'll be in a low position if we're going to try to resist if we can't now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u210	Mr. President. Yeah, that's exactly what you've been worried about. Now, the odds and reasons have been made that the ones we've done at this time during the induction of this energy package are quite impossible, do not meet minimum standards. So you have to ask, even if you are in a position that the Norwegians have thrown this matter out through the administrative court and out in the wilderness with a faulty warning in your hands, you are not likely to be exposed to even damage claims, etc. Because of the smoothness of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u211	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. It's very morning light. It's quite clear. Senator. To our eyes, we have the raw meat, and if we look to legal devices, which often represent judgment examples and judgment examples in the mountains, that's a little interesting, that the judges are judging them to guide the Lawgiver to what to do when the lawgiver has made a mistake in what he intended, namely. that the law did not achieve the objective of the law. It's just an example of the raw meat. The Lawgiver intended to give a warning that would hold, but he did not think so. The judges have fallen, both in EFTA and here in Iceland. And it will be no different from the fact that the Lawgiver is being counseled not to make this mistake again and much more so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u212	Mr. President. One of the fine men who have warned about how the third energy package is recorded here - and there are several, including many. A few independents - Tómas Ingi Olrich, former general and minister. He has written several recent articles that warn of how the government is going to take place and has warned of how this induction is to take place. He writes in an article in the morning issue of May 7, page 20, with the permission of a president: A debate over the controversial third energy package is tough. On the part of many of those who oppose the introduction of the package, according to the way the government has decided to follow, there is a great deal of suspicion. It targets the EU and Iceland's position against the Community. Of course, this suspicion is not without links to the development of the European Union since the time Iceland became part of the four freedoms. The relationship's career at that time is ornamental and has proved to be very damaging to many in the EU and the EEA. On the part of those who want to survive the induction by the government, people are lost. Part of this team wants to enter the EU and therefore does not accept whether the relationship is damaged or not. Insecurity, even into the government, the remaining supporters of the third energy package have been identified. It seemed - at least for a while - not completely clear within the government, whether the Republic had the right to decide if a cable would be placed in Iceland. The Minister of Energy Management has declared that it is not excluded that the European Convention's core rules for Free Aerosol flow will make it an unsolved prohibition against contracting a string (to Iceland). The minister was not sure, but he added that if it already exists, it has been since the EEA Convention was adopted about 25 years ago and is completely unrelated to the third energy package. Go on, Tómas Ingi, with the permission of a president, says: ▪ I have called attention to these speculations and have not been objected to. Lawyers in favor of the third energy package have confirmed that it is absolutely forbidden to set rules against enterprises or countries access to Icelandic energy. That's an interesting word, Mr. President. This means Tómas Ingi Olrich is saying that we will not have to ask whether we're going to have a sea cable or not. He says that, in fact, it's the highest. Industrial, innovation and travel minister admit it or do not object. This may once again show how important it is for ministers, those who are expected to conduct this introduction, to be present when this matter is discussed here in this room. But that has not happened despite the request. I can't help describing my concern over how this case was tore up. It seems that the government and individual ministers don't want to listen to anyone except the experts who have almost had the authority. And now let's keep in mind that for the committee, e.g. A foreign press committee, only those who were almost acceptable, for it was a long list, unfilled, who had not been assigned to appear to the committee when the committee was pulled out of the committee and said: "Now we're done. That's all we need. It is unlikely that the government will take this risk that it is clearly taking and, as I say, ignores the words of men like Tómas Ingi Olrichur.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u213	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is absolutely true that decisions have clearly been made, in great haste, and under unsaid pressure. I'm sure it's clear to me that there's something unsaid, and there's the board of directors, all as one, keep quiet. I would like to read from the Trustee's talk, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppé, 30 April 2019, less than a month ago, in order to support my case as to the urgency of this activity. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér is a member of a professional health committee, which includes the work programme. the energy law and the Power Institute, i.e. changes in these materials directly linked to this energy package. In conclusion the talks state, at the end of the council, by permission of a president: Green industry should be built first, and we should even take advantage of the official holdings we can place on it. Is e.g. Social benefits of subsidies of electricity transport to vegetable production are higher than energy sales to dig for electricity, though higher prices are obtained for the latter? Through official ownership, we are expected to use the energy system for energy exchange and to ensure access to electricity across the country. All energy production must be subject to strict environmental requirements and the threshold of microindustries must be reduced. Our energy should be used to achieve goals in climates, not to export electricity through cables. That's what I thought. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér 30th April. We're supposed to use our country's energy to make Iceland a non-carbon object. [[The president calls.]] It's about the energy policy turning, doesn't it? A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u214	Mr. President. Yes, this is one of many examples of how individual councilmen seem to have turned on the point, as you say, in their position. It is also certain, and there have I had doubts about and said here several times in this speech, that men seem not quite to know exactly where the course is, as per the discussion that took place here last week regarding large increases in vegetable production and using energy to more than that, and even subsiding it more than we have done to make farmers more vegetables. It stood out from every man who came here in a pit that this had to be done, that it was necessary, and that this would be good. And of course it is. They just forgot, these fine senators, to include in this equation that they are also suggesting the induction of a energy package of three from the European Union, which tells us that we cannot do anything about reducing the prices of electricity to vegetarians to this package approved, although we would like to. We simply have nothing to say about it. This will require additional competition, etc. So we're not gonna make this decision. Apart from the approval of this package, electricity will be much higher. It's the same time we talk about it with vegetables, second of all, energy exchange, cars, etc. Sometimes the right hand is spoken of as not knowing what the left is doing, and I think it's the best example of what I've been doing and what I've been through for a very long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u215	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. But this is the situation we're in. This is where the data clearly show that approximately It was a month that all of us agreed here at the council, perhaps with the reveries and some members of the council apart from the United States, that this is not the way we should not go. However, members of the United States have made it a matter of warning about what they have been very frank with, wanting to walk in the European Union, that they want to retain control of resources, they warn about it. It is surprising, then, that within just three to four weeks, weather could so quickly begin that we are in the area today that it is now government policy to implement this energy package with no more available warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u216	Yes, Mr. President. It's kind of a stranger saying than you would in a short period of time. It seems that some of these fine senators think that you can both own the cake and eat it, but as the case shows, it can't be done. It's also quite remarkable, as I've said before, that we should be this far along. We are so far along when the matter begins to be explained, when it comes to serious discussion, that the defences are useless, lawless, and yet to proceed with it. I'll just say what. A senator: The responsibility of these people is great. It's very big. And, as I have said before, I hope so deeply that I am wrong about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u217	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's speech and a very interesting statement he made about the point. A senator with the left green, Kolbart Óttarsson Proppér, how he changed his mind thoroughly, and it took him only one month, which may be just a new record from the previous statements, since he declared that he felt it necessary for us to use our energy here in the country and not sell it through a cable. But this is how politics can be strange, and, of course, there are a lot of people here in the administration team and those who support this proposal very strange. I agree with that. When a senator asked if there was anything wrong, he asked. Senators, executives, knowledge we didn't know. But what I wanted to do was to talk. A senator, and adding only to it - I took note that the head of the advance party had a statement just around Easter. I want to read it, with president's permission: The energy package discussion can be said to be tough. Is that understandable in many respects, then, to one of the Icelandic continents and likely the most important resource for future generations? Hence, it is important to seek reconciliation and conclusions that the common people believe and trust in in the future interests of the nation. What do you think? In view of what he mentioned in his talk, a senator of that declaration? [[The president calls.]] Where are we when there is trust and confidence in the nation when we see such statements that, in the end, clearly have no meaning? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u218	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. This was a talk about changing things. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. A year ago, or about that, he was interviewed in VOLV, where he says, by permission of a president: I'm going to make a lot of people, and I'm going to make a lot of notice. Not only the contents of this third energy package in the European Union but where we really go in this pan-European energy system as a whole. He says members of Congress have to settle the matter. It cannot be expected that the council will cancel without careful reviewing it. Today, one political body at the General Assembly is covering this matter in detail, as is the case. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé advised a year ago, and it's all about to go on tape because this political force wants to go over this deal carefully, and the worst is chosen by men. However, as far as the convention was concerned, the chairman spoke up as a result because about two weeks, three weeks later, after he wrote this article about the Passover or about it, another article was completely different, and the bait had been swallowed with nothing. And it wasn't that it was unforeordained. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir would state the following statement: ▪ My position is that we have arranged the steps in this matter so that warnings will surely hold in mind. In fact, we've not only got belts and shoulder ties like us in the forward party have put much emphasis on from the beginning, but we've come along, well, what to say, putting on a hairpiece, a pair of taste, and a new pair of shoes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u219	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, it is completely incomprehensible how politicians and government officials can change their mind as if nothing is so big and so big. I wondered, " Where does this end? ' Where does this importance of credibility end with politicians? He is rather relaxed and has gone extremely hard to try to straighten out the angle, which is considerable. In fact, Aldus has recently said, he is an experienced member of this field, that the key to strengthening the confidence of the Generalis is that politicians live by what they say. Here, government officials are going the opposite direction in this regard, and they are expected to end the nation's trust in and its activities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u220	Mr. President. In fact, with these examples we have presented today, it is not merely that humans are changing their mind. They're throwing their opinions at calm. Humans are running from their opinions completely. Men are running away from their convictions, as she appeared recently. It's not good luck to be in charge. So I don't understand, Mr. President, why in all human beings are so desperate to unveil this case through the council, with consequences we can't see. The only thing you can do, at least those sitting around passing the case through, are warned. And that's what we've been doing, we've been here, hanging on to the moat because of this payment, but not being listened. [[The president calls.]] Finally, we will naturally, if this goes out as we look, wash our hands from this mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u221	Mr. President. Thank you. Sæmundsson's for the speech. I've been thinking about what he said about the administrative problem, which the legal advisers of the government have been pointing out to be perhaps more than one law and that in the European Union's policies, which are now being introduced, there are laws that contain such a provision for the institutions, the international European institutions, which are in conflict with the Icelandic constitution. The government intends to present this matter in this way, on so - called legal notice. It is said that this is why the constitution problem that humans have been describing, hidden in this order, is suspended for now, as it has been said. Has a what? A senator's opinion of whether it is sufficient and whether this procrastination is possible? Can it be postponed? Because if the government introduces something they think is in opposition to the constitution, how can it be delayed? How can you postpone what you have brought in?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u222	Mr. President. Thank you so much for this counter-reguage. Here's one more paradox. They have become many in this matter. Men have said to us as moths to the ground and suggest that the case should be sent back to the European Commission by rejecting this energy package - it has also been suggested by jurists. But it's as if the government sees legal opinions like surfaces, they just take what they like best and they like best. But if we are ashamed or shameless, if we give up our authority on a large scale, we will not be well off if we push the problem ahead of us. That's exactly what they're doing here. The problem is being delayed. It's like when you can't make an uncomfortable decision, they postpone the decision, which is very bad Latin. Everywhere. She's bad in business. It's obviously totally amiss when it comes to legislature. Absolutely terrible. So to be honest, I don't understand how people think it's possible to do this kind of thing that way. I just don't get it. If there were just some lunatics from the Central Party who'd be warning you about it - but that's not the case. A number of lawyers, wise men, have done exactly the same thing, and they are not necessarily members of the Central Party. There must be a way to listen to them. But they decide not to. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u223	Mr. President. I was going to use my second question to why. A senator to ask him what we have been talking about in recent talks, i.e. On the legal matters. I suspect that this term on legal premise was the basis for the decision of many members of the council. And we've been looking for these legal warnings. The place has searched for the legal signs, kind of death search, Mr. President, if you don't mind me saying so. We have five suggestions. First, the EFTA declaration, as good as it, the European Commission's declaration of energy, then the Minister's legislation on changing energy laws, the wording of a paper by the Parliament-sense proposal, and finally the Regulation to be published here in the region of Shadow. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator will answer where this warning lies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u224	Mr. President. No, I don't have it, I wish I had it. It seems, though, that those who have already been declared to be there are, and we do not know which is there, but we do not keep any water. They're completely useless. Maybe they're being influenced by the Pirates over there, because the Piratars have, in the past, claimed it here in discussion. or early in the second round., I don't think there's any need for warning, that this can be done immediately. I think the government is actually going to do this in a way that quickly introduces this energy package. That's a very serious thing. If I speak Icelandic, I think the guys who have been introduced and do not feel like they're worth a dime. They have kept nothing. They will not hold any place before every judgment seat, I'm afraid. It's all in the same book.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u225	Mr. President. I'm gonna go over the whole thing briefly, if I get it in the five minutes I'm given this time in this speech. The beginning of the matter is from the European Union, which is implementing energy legislation. This is the so-called third energy policy package, the European Union's third energy directive. Once approved in the European Union, it is sent to the EFTA states and there by the European Commission, to discuss and see if it should be introduced in the EFTA states. There is an opportunity to receive an exception or to believe that such a rule should not be introduced into a certain country for some reason. If they were to believe there that something in this rule could possibly lead to a change in legislation or to the law of the country as a rule, then the country's population will need to be changed. In this case, when the third energy directive came in on the board of the European Commission, Iceland flagged because our representatives felt that national legislation would have to be adjusted according to the energy directive. Of course, the energy directive is composed of a number of regulations and a number of regulations, each, this is a complex act of law. But after we've been flaunted, it's called setting a administrative notice, which really means we're not going to accept this until we've sent this to Iceland, here for the Generals and get approved. Then the regular work here at home will be adjusted accordingly. In fact, the European Economic Areas view the whole region as a place of order when everyone has done this. They're sending the package home. It's been a while since he came here. Norway approved him over a year ago. It's here for the General. It happens that when it comes here for the Generals, it's put in on springtime. So the Order is laid before the Council today on springtime. Why is that, Mr. President? This is a very short time to work and examine the matter, as it is seen in the treatment of the problem. After the first round. is the case sent to the Secretary of State, where there are marathon meetings. There will be a short period of time for reporters. Most comments, Mr. President, are negative. There's a marathon meeting and then it's sent back to the Senate Hall. And they knew, of course, that most members of the council within this hall were a member of the council arrangement, so people may not expect the matter to lie in a church hall. However, as I have repeatedly said, the government groups have refused to listen, not to the greater part of the nation, which has been repeatedly shown by surveys to oppose the introduction of the third EU energy directive. The management groups have failed to listen to the members of their own groups, which have also shown that they are in part opposed to the induction of this energy directive. Also, the government groups do not listen to their own national conventions and top meetings in the case of the Independence Party and the forward party. They also do not listen to more of the reports given to the State Department. They also do not listen to serious warnings from their own legal advisers, who have warned that this is going very close to the Constitution regarding the office of authority to the international institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And of course, they do not listen to members of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u226	Mr. President. Thank you. His senator's fine speech. It seems that this legal premise, or this legal term, on the part of the government is a form of emergency to the position of Friðrik's Árni Frildurk's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson that there is a serious doubt that this matter will pass on the provision of the Constitution. It's a kind of emergency. But men are bold, and they have insisted that this legal arrangement compensates for the problem, which is naturally obvious. However, the experts make it clear and strong by saying it so that it plays a significant doubt, Mr. President, in these matters. In fact, there is a double opinion, at least. This was so on May 15 of the past after a talk. The chairman of the Independence Party, perhaps one of the chief responsibilities in the case of the civilian council, was that I asked. A senator whether he had seen this in advance. He said, by permission of the President: ▪ The legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses is the legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses in your country. A legal advance is not something you find a model in a legal foreword book. Go on says: There is no such suggestion, and such a decision is not in preparation or on the table. These words gave reason for the quest that is now taking place under the leadership of the great crowd. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, where he plays even. his legal knowledge and experience with police work, which I hope will benefit from this project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u227	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his advice. He quotes from what happened. Group members of the Independence Party and his statement that this warning was to be found somewhere. But we've been looking for him. Of course, it is in the words when the government announces that the energy directive must be legalized, that there must be some foreordaining of the law, new law, that is, my understanding that some legislation must take place there, and it will take place, or will happen, or will happen. And we've been asking about this repeatedly. Who is the legal guardian? The legal prefect cannot include pointing out some conversations that have taken place between the highest level of conversation. Foreign Minister and Energy Manager or one of the European Union's energy managers; that they meet and heal and then give some common declaration that Iceland is remote and highest. Our minister of foreign affairs has probably informed him that Iceland was an island and he agrees, that it can't be legal, and that the EFTA countries, Liechtenstein and Norway find that there is no sea cable here. V.E.G. The minister of state has probably informed them that there was no cable across the sea to Iceland. And they agree and state that it is real, so that no electricity can be drawn from or to Iceland because there is no string. This can't be a legal one either. And the search is over. I don't have time to review any more ideas. But these two things cannot be legal promises, not for anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u228	Mr. President. Yet it is so. Councilmen, some, have claimed that the legal company was looking to form in a statement by the Supreme Court. Secretary of State and Miguels, Europe's energy manager. A joint declaration may not be a legal one. That's what it says to itself, like a ooze. A senator points out. Iceland's declaration, Norway and Liechtenstein at a meeting in Brussels, the joint EEA Commission - there are some who claim to be the source of security. Will they claim that some declaration from Norway and Liechtenstein somehow be committed to the law and somehow relieve us of this administrative problem? I must say, Mr. President, that these ideas or suggestions, or those explanations that have been offered by the government are, of course, so that, of course, it must only harden the tone in this quest, because it cannot be this. Then there's one of the most recent explanations, I think I'll make it right when I say it's due. The head of the State Department, the Commission, is in the regulations proposed to the highest degree. Sir, please report to the Minister of Industrial Affairs. It's been here around the hall of a document that's sort of a traditional build-up rule. But there is one prominent article. Should a person really believe that a Minister's Regulation has some national value and can have any significance in terms of conflicts with the Constitution's regulations?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u229	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson, it was now the latest proposal or suggestion from the government, that the legal guardian is now in the Regulation. Then we arrived at the supreme regulations. Industrial Minister will plan, probably, to sign up in Shadow District. I'd like to allow myself to state that it just can't be. It simply cannot be that this is the mysterious legal agent foretold. That it is a Regulation issued by a minister in the government of Iceland, with all due respect for the value of Regulation. They apply within the country and are published for information for viewers and listeners. They are published almost daily in the European Commission on a wide range of topics, but they have some value in Europe, they have value for EU directives available in dozens of countries and are introduced with great difficulty in all European and European economic countries, and to the signing of the highest level. A minister under the Icelandic Regulation, which contains four articles, is legal, I find it hard to believe. I'd like to be told more often if I had to believe that there he'd be hiding there, that legal one. There's been more to it than that. Men have, for example. points to a report on page 3, the Convention's Dissolvement Plan, as discussed here, that it contains the warning. We've gone over it, and I'll review that wording better. But it can't be the legal court, a word in a paper with a synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u230	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. What I only want to do in this relationship is what I allow to call the hide-and-seek with the cable. It is known and known that the Agency has been working for years to prepare for a sea cable between Iceland and Britain and the EU energy market. We know the IceLink project. In addition, members of the Country Isthmian movement have suggested that within a few years they feel that such an association is strong. In addition, the private company of HD Energy has worked to do that. So this project has been accomplished for years. Then it would be wise to ask ourselves, " Is the reason why this thing is being run through? And I don't trust in men to leave this particular project, an energy pack of three, simply because we could put a stone in the street to put a sea cable here? ' I'd like to hear from you. A senator whether he agrees with me, that it can really be called a hide-and-seek with this cable. Because he has been working on for so long, and it will upset the task of stopping this process from using a pack of energy of three or permanent access. And, of course, there is such big investments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u231	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. He asks me if there's a hide-and-seek around the cable. I want to use this opportunity to continue talking about the legal warning because I hadn't finished it yet. We had already talked about five possibilities we could have heard from government officials about where the warning could be found. And we've been looking for him. We've been asking about him and we've been looking for him. I think it's a very important matter where this legal arrangement is, because I suspect that when the case was introduced, it should be introduced legally, causing a large number of senators, and people who were concerned about the case to follow the case. That it was called a reason for following the case. This certainly looks good when they say: " We're going to introduce it, but we're going to make it legally available. ' A reason to make a decision. Yeah, I'm gonna go with this. That looks good. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's just a good thing. This is the best part. That is why this search will take place on legal notice. That's why we're looking for him. And we're asking to be informed where he is. I was going to go over one of the possibilities, because I have a little time; that's the last fifth option; the bill of the Supreme Court. Minister to change power law. If you look at that bill, you will see that the change is almost verbal, like what is found in current electronic laws, 39th par. a. Then why is this bill being put? Is this the legal one? I can't see it. It's already in electrical law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u232	Mr. President. This is related naturally to a highly legal arrangement and to the sea cable because it is supposed to be the only means to be laid by the government's permission by the U.S. government. Then the question is, will it not be that soon after this legal agent is placed in the electronic law, just within a few years, when the pressure becomes even greater than the start of the sea cable project or repairing the sea cable, this law will be taken away? Isn't that just what we're seeing? A senator, that there is some premonition here to make this look good with the backlands of the political parties, such as the Independence Party and the forward party in particular? So when everything is done and ready to go on the job, will this be taken away like any other law taken away? A relatively simple process. Isn't that just the conclusion, huh? A senator, that these things are really the things behind them; that they may set them simply to make atonement, to make a house? And then the time comes when they need to be cut off. Then it'll be done only one, two, and three, as they say. It is quite another matter, however, that such warnings do not observe if it is under pressure by the European Union. That's the big deal, naturally. We know that the European Union hates everything that is called an exception and a warning. So I think we'll just see about that, huh? Senator, that this will all flow through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u233	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the questions, Þórarinsson's son's offer. The search for the legal warning is at hand, Mr. President. He's still in charge. He hasn't been found. Hv. A senator spoke of a sea cable and used the word "hidden " in this regard. The search for a warning reminds me of a game I sometimes played as a kid, which we kids called a shadow game. At that time, his eyes were tied to the same group, and he was to walk through the building looking for the others and try to catch them if he ran into them. It was called a shadow game. The search for a legal warning resembles a bit of a shadow, because the government introduces the implementation of EU energy directive with so-called legal advance. They buy it even if it is unclear from the very beginning how to put this legal warning and where it should be. The matter enters the council and is presented in this way. All the rulers of the council, as I know, shall follow the matter. It's in this suit. Then we, members of the Central Party, come up with this question, like the baby on the adventure: Where is the legal guardian? Men point one another to another and in all directions. There he is, there he is, and there he is. I have set out five possibilities that do not meet the possibility of truly promising a legal one. It's like a shadow game, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u234	Well, so that it's nine o'clock and just a little more than half an hour before the first meetings begin at the council committees. In a short time, President will end this meeting. Before the president does, he wants to say: Despite another long meeting on this matter, it does not seem that the discussion will end at this meeting. That's a big disappointment for a president. True, there are six men on the rosary that have a five - minute talk period each, if they gave their talks and didn't object and they didn't ask the word again, they could finish the discussion at the time we now have for it, but in the light of experience, and in the way the discussion has developed, the president will not even try to do so, as it is expected to be. Similarly, members of Congress are as persistent as they have finished their speeches, and they also respond to their party brothers. The members of the Central Party have made good use of their speaking opportunities in this matter. They have also received the kindness shown by a president who has allowed full words of five minutes, resulting in a three - to - four - fold - longer response issue. This meeting has now lasted over 17 hours. The entire discussion has lasted over 70 hours, and members of the Central Party have spoken for over 60 hours. This gives us the ability to form both tails. 8th yrs Witchest. gave 23 talks, made 291 comments, and have been in his talks for 146 minutes, and his comments for 547 minutes. It's been a long discussion. And it is now time that there has been nothing else for more than a week on the Generalis program. Is it not enough, however, to take into account the program for this meeting, where 18 other subjects await discussion? In many ways, the duties of the president, including the keeping of members of Congress, require that there be no violations in him. It is the one here on the President's throne that the Court of Congress is respected, but the rights also have responsibilities, and the President has more responsibilities, including duties, as it was at least In the past, to reveal the council will, the Council said to do everything possible so that the council could express its will in matters that would be ready to do so. Freedom is important, as is the case with members of Congress, but it has also been thought that freedom alone cannot be done at the expense of others. The danger now is growing as a result of the circumstances in this council that at the expense of the rights of other members of Congress to express themselves on other matters of how long this discussion has taken place. It is enough to refer to the large number of members of Congress waiting for release, and it can be assumed that many members of Congress would like to have the opportunity to express themselves in a natural way. The danger is that when efforts are made to complete the Senate with only a limited amount of time ahead, and even if it would be added days, without any intention, to take part in the proper communication rights of members of Congress and to discuss many important matters that are currently being discussed. Of course, that is not good. If there are also a schedule of time, a number of willing cases will not be decommissioned at this council because of the great damage and much human effort done on committees, e.g. In winter, the courts go. Therefore, the president would like to encourage the heads of the Central Party and the members of the Central Party to consider the rest well. The president is always ready for conversation, as is the conversation with the heads of the Central Party that the president took the initiative to do yesterday. However, the president then reiterates his exhortation to members of the Central Party whether they are willing to consider between meetings whether they can limit their speech or thus limit them to the completion of this discussion, to vote on the matter, and to complete it according to the democracy's guidelines and the Congress that apply here, according to the majority will. ▪ It is lost in the form of a well - known popular lyrics. It's good if it's not the popular song that has been chosen the most popular of all popular songs. I have to say, I'm starting to feel like I'm losing a little bit of weight here at the Council. Finally, I would like to use this opportunity again to thank the staff of the Generals who have had to put forth enormous effort so that this vast meeting could be held.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u235	It is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer today than is recommended by the Congress. If you do not object to it, you will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u236	Mr. President. As the president has probably noticed, I was discussing the state of Cyprus in connection with the third energy package and the link between the country and the European energy network on the marine cable. I had not finished that discussion, and now I intend to do so, but I have made a brief break on that passage to discuss a very, very wonderful interview I had read at the highest level. Secretary of the budget, great interview, one of the best interview ever. Secretary of finance has served. It's on Telegraph, this is not the interview at the highest level. The secretary of finance speaks of the fixing of a sea cable but at the highest level. A minister will discuss exactly the problem here with the third energy package. I think it's the highest. During this interview, a minister may shed a new light on this matter and help us to accomplish it, hopefully in more solidarity than has ever been in the council up to this point. The interview with Telegraph is over a year old, and since it is Icelandic, I support the review of this business interview. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The European Union considers our independence to be a cause of trouble, to be observed by Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson in an interview with the British Telegraph, who considers Brussels authorities to be taking more and more power over the EEA. It's shocking if the relationship thinks the Icelanders will accept anything other than the present two supporting systems through the EEA. The Icelandic government is not happy with the growing European Union's growing pressure that there will be an increasing number of additional rules, now the last of which is the energy sector and the treatment of food control. He told the European government that the independence of the country is becoming more and more trouble, but he says during the interview that the deeper integration of all parts of the Union is making it difficult for Iceland to take care of its national interests. The next headline is: They say there is a warning example for Britain. It's interesting, Mr. President, that the British are right now choosing the European Parliament, another story that I will discuss in the second speech. Go on says: The article will show what might follow in Britain if Britain does not pass all the way out of the European Union, but, as the Business Journal has discussed, governments have agreed that after the two - year out process, an intermediate gathering will take place until the final agreement for EU and United Kingdom communication is reached. Those who want to improve adaptation to the EU are intensifying, and if this occurs, there will be even less tolerance for specific solutions within the European Economic Area (Ecosystems), the Bjarni said, among other things, during the interview. ▪ A very recent example is raw meat and the rules of free flowing lips. The EU line is that the same rule should apply to all and not to special requirements in any case. But we are a specific example, since in Iceland there is no Salmonella virus, it can hardly be referred to as a problem here, as it is in the Member States. If we add antibiotics, I mean, they're hardly used in Iceland, compared to the poultry industry in Spain. The next headline is: Growing concern over lack of understanding. ▪ Bjarni said that there is growing concern in Iceland for the lack of understanding why Icelanders are not ready to be adopted and carried over with the project on united Europe. ▪ They [EU] are almost being rude, it's as if it's just trouble in their eyes that they ask when we're gonna get rid of. ▪ Why can't everyone just become a permanent member? I can separate them from a political point of view, but the situation is simply that if there is a international agreement [as we have], it has to be respected, that's just the way it is. I can't finish this tour completely, not in this speech, but hopefully the next one, but it's a hell of a way to describe our Middle Class attitude in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] So I welcome this team, though he comes a year after he was granted, from the highest. Secretary of finance, hoping that he may be guided by his class and other classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u237	A respectable president. I just wanted to point it out. A member of the council says that this case is totally in violation of the two-part system and Iceland's constitution, as is very clear in the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u238	President. This isn't exactly right. Senator. Now I'm going to be afraid of what's happened. A senator has not observed the discussion that has been significant in the past few days and that has made much clear, including this point. Indeed, there is a serious question, careful men would say, that the arrangement here is a two - sided system. In the case of the ACER, the European Energy Agency, it is expected to have power over the whole region, the countries that hear under the European Economic Area, although ESAs have some role in the case of Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, e.g., accepting the letters from the ACER, returning them, and observing that they act accordingly. As scholars have noted, this is not in harmony with the two pillars, as it was thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u239	A respectable president. This arrangement was set out specifically for the issue to be in line with the two supporting systems. There is no problem with the two supporting arrangements for sending out one man to another. Hv. A senator well knows that ACER will not make any decisions. The ESA will make the decisions and, of course, a small amount of ACER, would be a little strange in view of the fact that the whole objective is to try to have an overall degree of energy in Europe. That's the point, and that's just a good point, not that we're going to have a sea cable here, but that's essentially a positive objective and, in fact, the objectives of the EEA and the EU. This is no wonder, the two-part system is designed to have things so that we can have access to this market and meet our rules with the EU. That's the whole point of being in the EEA. You're wrong. A senator says that there is some doubt that this is a two-part system. It's up to the two-part system. I can send a letter to the highest. A minister asked him to present a bill, but this does not mean that the authority to present a bill at the General Assembly is taken from the prime minister. [[The president calls.]] I think it's like a crazy approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u240	President. That was an extremely up-to-date answer. Hv. A senator here describes this so - called two - strengthening system as some kind of patem sheet, that the provision of ESAs or the delivery services is placed on the basis of only the appearance of being in harmony with the two - key system, irrespective of reality. [[Up front.]] Hv. However, a senator may later admit that the reality is very pleasing, that, of course, ACER should write the signs, of course it should be handled, and, of course, the ESA should have the responsibility to forward the message. [[Up front.]] But this is not in accordance with the two supporting systems, as it was originally thought, whether you consider the EEA Convention at the Parliament or at any other national council or as a tip from those who have come to that work during the recent years, especially frá Jón Baldwin Baldvin. [[The president calls.]] At that time, the two - key system was certainly not thought of as some kind of patem tents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u241	Mr. President. How important it is to review the outstanding interview! A senator made it a subject. Several comments, of course, came to the fore and have appealed to the discussion under this heading. With regard to the concern of the two supporting systems, which are the basis for our participation in the EEA community, it is probably to consider what the Grand Authors of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Stefánsson have to say about that. There is a vast text in section 4.3, is there a clearly defined or defined version of power to ESA? Their conclusion is that in view of the large impact that ACER has on ESA decision, such an arrangement is misinformed to the two supporting systems of the EEA Convention, which are among the guidelines that are considered to evaluate whether the administration of government to international institutions is within the Constitution. It's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u242	President. Thank you. A senator for reminding me. That's exactly what I'm talking about. These highly esteemed scholars do not view the two pillars as a form of deception, a form of compromise, that the ESA was originally thought to be a paper - carrying company to transmit messages from the European Union to the United States. But this adds to my concern about how ESAs have been developing. Because of the concern that this is not only an ESA, with some kind of intermediate organisation, at best, it is at risk that all this rule of action may be even more burdensome to Iceland than most other European countries because ESAs will have the opportunity to send them to ACER if the ESAs do not believe that all of this is going to be more difficult for Iceland than most other European countries because ESAs will have the opportunity to send them to ACER if the ESAs do not seem to follow them well enough according to the objectives of the Agency. [[The president calls.]] Thus, ESAs are thought to be a kind of addition to ACER surveillance in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u243	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, there is a reason, in view of the short period of time here, to take a little further attention to the text as found in this major point of view. Let me remind you that this is from a chapter on whether an ESA's power supply is clearly defined and set out. Authors say: In this regard, ESA decisions are mainly designed to be considered on an 8th basis. Regulation (EEC) - they refer to Regulation 713 - ◯ Not only to national monitoring authorities, but in fact to the direct and indirect important interests of individuals and lawyers, as well as to the rich public interest in the electricity system and its use... ~ Do these excellent authors need to consider whether the demands of the two supported system are met? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u244	President. Wait a minute. A senator apologizes that I may not have been direct enough. That's exactly what I'm talking about. A senator says, it's crystal clear. More importantly, this is a reminder that by bringing in the third energy package, we are jeopardizing the two-part system. We're actually digging under both sides, at least our support. As a result, we're digging under the whole EEA contract. This example serves as a reminder that those who want to protect the EEA contract and use its benefits will take place in this energy package and will take the initiative not to introduce the energy package in the way the government has proclaimed, in a way that is designed to weaken the two-part system and set an unprecedented example of how it is interpreted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u245	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this interview to the attention, especially because of the highest level. The secretary of finance is not only that, he is also chairman of the largest political party in Iceland, the Independence Party, that uses probes but also his 90th birthday on Saturday. What surprises me about this interview is at the top. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party seems to have been totally focused on their position. But this is not true of the majority of independence itself. It surprises me, and I'd like to know if. Perhaps a senator might shed light on it, or he may wonder about it, what might have caused him to turn his position to the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, so completely in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u246	President. I still hold on to hope, especially after reading this interview and listening to talks at the top. Secretary of finance on this matter. I still hold on to the hope that he will be able to enter and bring these matters to a successful conclusion. I draw attention to the Supreme One. The minister of finance has not been very prominent in this discussion and even wanted to avoid participating in it, as you would see in yesterday's inquiry class. One can hope to the highest. A minister is paying attention to the points presented during the discussion that can eventually step in and resolve the matter, resolve the big, difficult issues that have been so difficult for us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u247	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. In itself, I have a similar hope. I've kind of hung my hopes on that Saturday between the clock. The 90th birthday celebration of the Independence Party will be held at Valhalla with coffee and scavengers. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, meets enough independent persons who feel the same way as any of those who have maintained any objection to this third energy package of the previous popular. I am such a optimistic person by nature that I had hung my hope that a minister of finance would meet the general independent and get his attitude straight into the arms of a cup of coffee that might be a cause for him to see him and that he, like a dog, would see him. A senator said, would step in and solve the matter for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u248	President. It would certainly be. I believe this birthday celebration of the Independence Party will arrive at a most suitable time. That'll give you the highest. Secretary of finance and members of the Party have the opportunity to meet many of the good party, the loyal independence people, people who have even followed independence policy for decades and are concerned about what is going on in this regard. In fact, it is not only the independents who are concerned but also people from the grass roots of the left movement, from the old American team, who are naturally concerned about this matter. Hopefully, the members of these councils will be associated with the most supportive of them, and hopefully the supporters will make it clear what Iceland has to do with the best of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u249	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. You're right, I can match him in that this is a remarkable interview, but not unique, since similar interviews have occurred and exist in print and in the photon centers with the leader of the left green and the leader of the candidates. However, regarding the content of the talk, there is a sharp answer. A senator admitted that the Secretary of finance referred to the EEA agreement and said we were part of it. That's right. 1 1 1 1. g. The agreement deals with the solution of the issues and is different from the way this is being dealt with. God's Word, the Bible, says at 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5, does The European Commission is authorized to resolve the issue. It should be provided with all the information it may need to perform a thorough investigation of the subject, with a view to finding a solution that can be accepted by the individual. For this purpose, the joint EEA committee shall investigate all possibilities to maintain the successful implementation of the contract. I would like the senator's position to see if there is any doubt as to whether the way in which he is selected here is true or false.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u250	President. That was good text and really beautiful. He explains that the contract should work in a way that when one state feels inclined, one person should meet and seek solutions that everyone can accept. It is incomprehensible not to make use of this arrangement. The answer to the question is: No, people are not going the best way, surely not. But not only that, I'm thinking that there's a dangerous way to go. Doing things the way the government suggests is setting a very dangerous example. The example is this: When there are major differences and there is fear that their interests are being given in the way they are served, we Icelanders do not trust us to use the terms of the agreement that are written in it, especially to cope with them. It will simply make it more and more difficult to make use of a law, since it can be cited as an example that has not been done before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u251	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It has now been claimed that if the course required is chosen in the European Economic Area Convention, it is based on the 102th and 103thres. and other articles, will be a major political uncertainty and have been identified as a threat to Iceland on the part of the European Union. However, regarding the way of taking the matter back to the joint EES panel, Dr. Carl Baudenbacher, who happened before. A foreign - language committee, and this is the 15th issue on page 20. 7 in his opinion, about the opposition in Iceland - this is inexplicably translated by the fact that we have not received these documents - that it was primarily about the induction of Regulation 713/2009 and the third energy package as a whole. [[The president calls.]] He believes that the EEA joint committee can be replaced and concluded with the article "In English Language, " with the permission of President's permission:" What do you want to do without mourning? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That would mean, "That would be indiscriminate." What do you think? A senator on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u252	President has to ask. Senators, watch out for deadlines. When it is one minute, it is considerably longer than the time limit to speak for another 30 seconds. [[For example, I'm sorry for your loss.]] In response, 16 of one minute will be the most important of that kind of shock.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u253	President. Whatever it is. Another example of the importance of this discussion is that of helping us to discern new facts. Carl Baudenbacher's opinion has been set up by the government, along with their summation, that it actually says something completely different. But there it is. This is made clear by the man who was the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs hired to write for himself a point of opinion, that it is harmless, that it does not cause any damage, to use this arrangement of the agreement, and to redirect the case to the joint EEA Committee. - Then why not? It's all that recommends it, but I haven't heard any arguments against it yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u254	President. I hope to the highest. So if I make comments on this team shortly after a meeting begins, the president will not be upset, but I will do so by asking a question to the president here tonight, questions that have not been answered. The questions are about this: Where is the highest? Secretary of state? Nothing's ever happened to him for a long time. I've asked a respectable president to find out where the highest level is. The minister of foreign affairs is to be found, whether he can be contacted, even persuaded, to come here and participate in this discussion. It has indeed become clear in this discussion, in many new developments, and in many questions. But there is no answer, especially the minister who presented the matter. There's nowhere to go. We don't know if he's in Iceland, we don't know if he's in Europe, we don't know where he is or when he can be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u255	The President may not have information on foreign ministers, but as noted, foreign ministers often travel to foreign countries, and the president has reason to believe that the Supreme Court will. Secretary of state is in the outlands. Of course, this means that there is a minister here at home for him. If any person with the Ministry of State and so the absence of foreign ministers comes to the discussion, it's probably time to do the highest. A minister informs us that his presence is requested. If I understand why. That's how I'll do it. Otherwise, as is often done in this situation, the matter is now under custody. It may no less be the chairman of the panel and the manager of more things that they should be there to answer for their stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u256	A respectable president. It's normal for someone for the highest. Foreign minister while he is abroad, wherever it should be in the world. But this case is so growing that I think there would be a difference between getting that man up until now, although it would certainly be possible to test and be interesting if the president is aware of who is at the highest level. Secretary of state. However, it is important, up to the organization to know when the highest time is involved. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðlaugur Þórðarson, is expected to arrive in the country. This information must be available. Whether it is available or not, this information should be available at the highest time. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðlaugur Þórðarson, is expected to arrive in the country. I want to pray to the highest. A president can figure it out and inform the United States of when he is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u257	The president is not the travel agency that organizes trips to the highest level. Secretary of State, of course, but it's not a secret. And the president doesn't know for sure who's in charge. Secretary of State is right enough to be foreign, but there is reason to believe that this is either a marine dignitary or agricultural minister or industrial and tourism and justice minister. I know it's been that way most of the time, if you know what I mean. Secretary of state has been absent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u258	Mr. President. I would like to agree with the viewpoints that have been presented in the public address. Councilmen. We requested yesterday that industrial, innovation and travel minister would deal with us if they couldn't reach the highest level. Secretary of state. I also made a request to the highest degree. The prime minister would come to us, even if only for a short time, and even consider cutting down the knot. This matter does not have to rush through the council, but there are a number of cases to be concluded before the end of the council. I'd love to hear that. Mr. President will accept this request with the secretary of state, but could he take part in this too?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u259	Mr. President. I hope the President doesn't take it so that we're gonna upset him so early in this discussion. As we have seen here, we prayed for the presence of some men here tonight. It just so happens that it doesn't work out because we get the best. Minister of State here because just this morning, Styrmir Gunnarsson, in a brief article, said that the case we address here is the greatest mistake the Independence Party has ever made in foreign affairs. There is good reason for us, if possible, to find out when the highest time is. Secretary of state will be here. But I'd love to, too, if it was the highest. A minister of finance would have been wanting from early this morning or tonight to let so little to look around. He is not only the minister of finance but also the chairman of the Independence Party, and we would have liked to have with him a place to speak about this matter that is deeply worrying us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u260	President. I think it's very important to get to the top. Minister of Foreign Affairs coming here in person because of the Supreme Court. Minister has made this matter very personal. He missed me, like. " very much here when he wanted something to express himself on the subject at an earlier stage, he complained that I was in a foreign country, in fact, doing nothing about it. The head of the State Department would be on the same trip with me. It seemed strange to me, especially in view of the highest. Not long before, a minister had asked us middle - class members to let him handle the matter so that he could make his way abroad. Of course, the fact that he is absent in a foreign country, apparently all over the world, is extremely peculiar. That's why I'm asking the President to find out where the highest line is. Minister, this real one is now. It would also be interesting to know who is the Secretary of Defense. Secretary of state while he's away - if he's away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u261	The president has additional information on the highest level. Secretary of state is away, he is in foreign lands, and one of the members of the Independence Party is for him. According to tradition and custom, the wish will be made to the one representing the minister that his presence is required. Other than that, the president will not do beyond that. I consider wishes so late under the discussion of calling the prime minister or because others are not justified that there is reason to respond. I call attention to the fact that this discussion has now lasted over 60 hours. Of course, the members of the Central Party have spoken for nearly 50 of them, so such requests that are common at the start of a discussion are very late.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u262	Mr. President. I wanted to say that I noticed the statement. A president who's about to participate anyway. Chairman of the State Department and a member of the discussion. I allow me to think of it as a way of saying that the president was a man of some kind. A chairman of her council duty. Based on a recommendation that fell on the wrong side. Seems there's no need for a chairman here yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u263	A respectable president. I just wanted to keep it up, in the light of the words. Just before, a president said that these wishes were late, so it would not be necessary to accept them, that there have been many requests for the presence of the highest court. Secretary of state through all subsequent sieges. I felt that it was important to have this request held out for the first time. There have been countless prayers for the ultimate presence. Minister for the discussion. It's the playoffs that are about to appear right now. This is not the first request to the highest. A minister be called to the area. I'd like to consider this to be a perfectly reasonable request and consider it to be at the beginning of the discussion, the beginning of a second discussion, which is the case. This has been repeated several times, and I want to leave it to the highest level. The president took part in making us at least aware of when the Minister is due to the country and back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u264	The president was referring to a new development wish that other ministers who are not at all to be called here and that wishes would call the president late forward - perhaps within 61 hours of the discussion, meddle in the case of a minister who is not at all doing so. [[I understood...]] The president also reviewed what is strictly traditional and quite natural, to want the presence of the minister who follows the seminary, who is trying to deal with it, or who wants to have a word with the member of the committee or spokesman in more ways that will take their stand on the case. [[Take it up, give it a wish...]] There's a lot of contingency, but wishes beyond that are more to entertain a president, that he thinks. But President's heard what to do. Councilmen will say, and this will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u265	Mr. President. I've been going over a little, and not to incorruption, no. 72/2009, the spine in the energy package for induction. It contains the general objective of a policy management authority, which is then the National Energy Institute, which has become a kind of tool-based ESA, which then hears under the ACER, which is the European Commission's Clinic: To ensure that system managers and system users are provided with the appropriate incentive, both long and short - term, to improve system efficiency and contribute to market integration. This means that, if it is missing, it must be motivated so that those responsible for the transport systems will increase their efficiency, which would be expected to be transportable, including, and contribute to market integration, i.e. ... toprovidethemark. With President's permission, it also says: To ensure clients benefit from the active activities of their national markets, to promote active competition, and safe consumer protection, to ensure that clients will benefit from their national market activities, to promote effective competition, and to ensure that consumers will be protected. This law is logical and understandable in the light of the European core concept because energy companies are privately and not in national property right here. It is also a general objective: ▪ To contribute to the establishment of high-level public services and public employment services, to help protect neglected customers, and to promote the compatibility of essential data exchange procedures when customers switch sales.◯ This is what concerns consumer protection. However, the duties and authority of the administration of oversight are in accordance with Article 37. and in the 1st, it says, by permission of the President: ▪ The following obligation is given under the supervision of the executives: a) to determine or agree, in accordance with transparent criteria, to determine, this is now the market area -- for transport and distribution or methodologies. It is an offer funded by Iceland, an Energy Institute, which has been set aside by the European Commission, which is about to determine legal requirements. The b-party says: To ensure that the transport and distribution systems managers and, if applicable, systems, as well as the owners of electronic companies, meet their obligations under this directive and other relevant Community legislation here translates the European Community, the energy alliance, which is being formed through the European Economic Area Treaty between the European Community and the EEA - ◯ including the issue beyond the borders. This means either an electrical cable across a border or a sea cable that separates seawater from country to country. And how should this be understood? There have been many debates that there is no mention of an ocean cable in a pack of three. No, I haven't necessarily found the word "joic" string, but a database of cross-borders and ◯ metals over the border, and a '-to-cords' of the market, a '- it's all word that points to the same thing, i.e. to be able to transport the electricity between and that's what the European Union calls it. Sadly, though, this is not necessarily what is convenient for us Icelanders. Under the 37th paragraph. in the c- team says: It is also important to know that the Court is responsible for the management of the Member States and the management of the Member States and of the Agency. That would be comparable to the authorities in other countries and the Power Institute would be here and at the Agency. But what is that institution? It's this over and over-the-ground ACER. [[The president calls.]] - I see my time is running away, I'm praying. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u266	Mr. President. The question is clear. A senator's success is to cover originals, review the principles of the regulations, especially the two most relevant, 713 and, to a lesser extent, 714, and 72, all from 2009. I think it's a bit obvious, in general, that it may be a little intolerant to long - held opinions, but human beings have it. There is now one thing, and there is not much to say. That's what we'll have to live with. In some cases, this has led to a person's being motivated to use various terms about those who allow themselves to have and to promote other viewpoints. But lately, you've seen that in one individual man, you have to say, you have a real need for their private examination, their own evaluation of factors that would call for analysis by the sake of specialists -- I heard this once called to Swedish, which I'm going to let myself blow up here, by permission of the President, ◯dasies eget lilla hamarbete in the right way as if it were a matter of expert opinion. Has a what? A senator noticed this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u267	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his counter-sponsion. I must agree that there have been many who expressed their views - and that is for themselves a fine and part of the discussion, quite clearly - but fewer people have studied the facts, even though the middle-class members have been eager to search for them. I think there's a reason. I believe that people were right in the hands of certain data that explain not everything, and that they may have been done to get the case forward, so that they would do more to the council, hoping that we would not get into things that are not clear or that have been rejected in the matter, i.e. We're taking care of Iceland's interests for Europe's interests. It's a serious matter, and I think it would be worth a while because the people who saw themselves jump into the Senate room when two cameras were here from the media, but they disappeared as quickly as the cameras were gone, would come to the conference and take the discussion on a perfunctory note. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u268	Mr. President. That's not least because of the highest recommendation. For the shortest time, when he took the word "manly practice" in his mouth regarding the passage of at once. A senator from the Pirate Congregation. That is why I thought, when there was another word. A member of the same congregation jumped at the door while he was busy. paritaprevir Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson answered back from him that there may be evidence of the degree and height he would have achieved in showing good manners, as in our speech of the best and the highest. President. But speaking of this, that people are making things as fact, or even experts' opinion, I think of the two newspapers that have appeared over the past few days written by a wind. The members of the Independence Party. There they recognize the reasons why they support this energy package. That's what they're saying. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and who. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur of Árnason, that electrical prices are expected to drop below after the third energy package has taken effect. I view this as a matter of special interest. In fact, these claims of reduced electrical prices in this country conflict with human experience, such as the driving force. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms have been most diligent in demonstrating both her own experience and the southern settlement with seawater on the Waterless Coast. But then it fights against the accepted criteria, such as them. that the main objectives of the EEA work are consistent and consistent and, of course, it will not result in or work by reducing land prices compared to the European countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u269	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is not entirely impossible for us to say that there are so many opinions here, let's say, not facts, but opinions that do not pass. Hv. A senator made a discussion of the comparison of energy prices on this counter, and I allow myself to read from a fist where reports are compared: It is essential that the comparison between countries be made so that it can be considered more clearly. On figure 1◯ - which I cannot show here -- ▪ Can be seen comparing electrical prices to home users in various European countries in the second half of 2018. It is based on the fact that the use of the solution is between 2,500 and 5,000 pounds per year. That's what Iceland said to be 0.1457 euros. However, the average value in the European Union is 0.213 euros and 0.2242 euros in the European Union. [...] From this point on, the average mile [kg] spent in the European Union is about 45% higher than in Iceland. People here are ready to come in for a speech chair and claim that this will benefit consumers. And it's not just that, it's gonna cause power prices to just drop. Where are we gonna get that electricity, Mr. President? It would decrease what it is here because it's more expensive in the European Union, it's pretty clear. But where should we get this less cheap electricity? Are we about to take a sea cable to Greenland or something like that and have them pay for the whole mess?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u270	Mr. President. I'd like to go over it with a little bit of what. A senator, according to what he is doing more in Regulation 72/2009, becomes increasingly aware of how thin the thread we have learned here that in a pack of three energy, as it is in the Senate resolutions, does not include the exercise of power that we have feared, many, and the jurists, as well. So I'd like to go over it a little bit with a bang. A senator how he sees the matter, that subject. As we have heard, people have had similar concerns before. I quickly remember an interview, not as old as I intend to go over later, at what time. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, describes a lot of doubt about the cohesive electricity field. I plan to review it sometime in a talk later during the discussion. But a man in himself felt this fear in the excellent interview mentioned earlier at the son of Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party, who seemed to have the same concerns or concerns that we now have. But they are taken from him for some reason that we do not know. I'd like to ask you something. A senator, in view of e.g. ... the head of the Independence Party and the highest. Secretary of the budget, see what it is. A senator in what he has done in the 72/2009 Regulation that could cause us to ease our concern about the power to which we are concerned?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u271	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father is a great man for his counter-sponsored response. As I read more and more, I will be more convinced to answer the question, that our fear is based on sound evidence. They're giving up power. I hope that I'll be forgiven for my inexperience here at the Congress Hall, but I've observed some national talk. Hv. A senator quotes at the highest level of interview. The secretary of finance, but a year ago, a lot of senators had obviously studied and studied these evidence. At that time, they took a very clear view, which is the same as we are speaking for here. They used the same reasoning. I heard why. A senator said that he was going to make those statements, and these interviews were better in the second speech. He may have more interviews than I've read and looked at. I think it's early to be aware that this is a show of power. This does not include consumer protection for the Icelanders. This is not a practical thing to do. This does not include nature protection. This includes the European Union's interests. This includes achieving the objectives of the European Union and the European Union of Energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u272	Mr. President. I've been pretty thinking, and we've been thinking about it because now it's the left green that leads to the market of Iceland's energy resources, and if you hadn't believed it until you had dealt with it a few years ago. Hv. A senator mentioned nature protection. In fact, in a recent article that I was receiving, the Landsnet says that it can handle 85 MW extras within the current line, saying that Landsnet's lines tolerate transport capacity up to an additional 85 MW. But if I've noticed, those who have been preaching are in force up to 400 MWs. This category, which teaches itself in nature protection, left green, has so advanced by one of its former members that it now calls them an offer of motor activity, not left or green. I wondered: " Is this not one of the things that we need to take special note of? This current appeal, especially in windmill parks, also in microdotings - is it not something we need to take note of? As far as I can see, this is going to require a huge projection in line layers. Lines have been very difficult. I know that this may be one of the most difficult things we've been dealing with because of the inadequacy of men to put their land and countryside on, etc. and for understandable reasons. Isn't this a big job that you're overlooking to save this third energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u273	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The answer raised a question as to whether this was a major project that would be overlooked in terms of the transport capacity of the distribution system as it is today and, on the other hand, what may be expected, by prospective wind gardens, has to be introduced into the system. That's not counting them around. 100 sufferers who are involved in the small inactivations of less than ten megawatts and do not have to undergo environmental assessment. I think you're right. What, though, would be our assignment in order to do this? Wouldn't it be something that would be called Iceland's energy policy, something we'd decide for ourselves as a country on how we were going to do it? We do not have such a course, although such a course has long been possible. There is one reason why, except that we are opposed to this induction as such, that even if we had already begun to appear before the EEA Commission and received the relevant conclusions, we would still need to have our policy determined and done so before we could take the case back to the joint EEA committee, so that the result from that will not have to be the European Union's energy policy as a drive so double as to bring in the energy package, if he could look as much as we can find pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u274	Madam President. It is fitting on this beautiful day, on the first day of the Seysannas to be champions of Iceland in the handball of men, to wish the Young Men's Society of Selphoss, and all the Selouss and Sunnians heartily congratulated on this remarkable success, but last night, the Young Men's Society of Selephosss and the hardy Team of the Hafnarfjörður, who ended with a remarkable victory of the locals of Selephos, 35:25. So when the government groups introduced the plan to submit to the European Commission's third energy directive, it was maligned by so-called legal advance and would be safe. This led to any opposition that had been seen within the parties, preferably within the Independence Party and the forward Party, apparently evaporating. They looked at one another, and nodded their heads, and bowed themselves again in their seats. The energy resources would be safe. It seemed that in a brilliant way, even the greatest skeptics could abandon their position and turn to other more useful works. Now there would be no need to worry about the Constitution or the power of the European Commission's energy sector, it would be safe to defuse administrative warnings, thus implementing a third energy directive because of the legal introduction of the European Union's implementation of the directive by the European Union. Madam President. All of this looked very good, although few were aware of what is accurately born in such legal cases. When the members of the Central Party repeatedly called for the location of the warning, much more was reported on by government officials. And the next few hours, we got to hear at least Four different versions of where he was and what kind of song he was. Often, members of the Management Board have pointed to a joint declaration of a common understanding. Secretary of state and energy of the European Union and the highest. A minister himself said that the proclamation did not have a legal influence, but it had a legal significance in the case. Madam President. It has been suggested that the declaration, which is primarily about the deep understanding that Iceland is an island, is of no significance and, of course, cannot be the legal agent yet to be found. The members of the management board also identified in this context the EFTA declaration of the 8th May, but this declaration is merely an EU speciality where the country is not linked to Europe by a septal cable. This declaration from Liechtenstein and Norway cannot be the well - known fact of the legal court that has been sought and has been called after many times. Third, Madam President, an additional 9. The electricity layer, which is faced in the bill of connecting the EU's electrical energy system to the electrical systems of other countries through a series of cables, according to the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. It's from the bill. If this is the legal foreword that had been sought and repeatedly called for, men could have saved themselves such a bill, for this text is already found in the electronic law of 39 C.E. a. They could have saved themselves. If this was the case, it would have been possible for men to pass it on. This has been referred to in wording in a paper with the synonym that we here address, but this text simply indicates the introduction of EU Regulation, No. 713/2009, in a conventional but legal way, as the report says, that the infrastructure that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the European Union will not be built unless the exception of a review of the law on the basis of the Regulation. Not a text in a paper report, Madam President, this text, can be this legal officer, especially when it is considered that the Council's arrangement to accept has not in itself legal value, although it seems to be accepted, but it seems that the legal premise is presented. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] People can be excited because I will continue here for the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u275	Certainly, but the president still encourages the council to keep its time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u276	Madam President. There's a reason to thank you. A senator and not just for keeping us informed about the finals of a handball race on the east side of the mountain, but especially for bringing together this museum, which has been formed by an investigational hypothesis - I allow me to call it, coming from the university environment - about which of this legal notice could possibly represent. The event is this: Free from the 4th of May 15 p.m. In a speech, the legal defense disappeared. Chairman of the House of Independence. Hv. A senator described the flag that came here. Councilmen who hear the details of the administrative body and of the satellite involved in this matter. Then came several speculations and, in fact, not as a hypothesis, but a statement about each of the legalities, and it has very simply increased since then. I was turning to an electronic network that many people know is called in the daily talk book of St. That's it. A member of the board, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, covering this case with a great rasp, and it seems to me to have at least an opinion. two legal reasons for the entry there may be. Thus, the number of warnings appears to be growing, sharp. A senator, and the need to have a detailed record of this warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u277	Madam President. Yeah, I cleaned up when this morning I had a chance to collect all this stuff all the time. Of course, it's a very serious matter, and it's very important to the nation, if the government can't speak clearly in this case and say this in advance, put them on the table, but I'm at least on the table. ... with five hypotheses from the board, pointing out that there's the legal defence, there he is, or there. I've been taking it together and starting earlier, and I'll finish my review here in the next talk. I'm going to go over at least One theory that has been pointed out by governments themselves, they say, is legal. We examined it. And what will we see? We haven't found him yet. And we've reasoned on these indications, and they're all about themselves. It is vital that those in charge come here, make an appointment and answer because the answers are not yet there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u278	Madam President. Of course, how the events have developed with such a number of notices is sobering. In my speech, I allowed myself to point out that maybe there were two new ones in this assignment that I could do for the other five as a boy. A senator believes he has noticed. Of course, much more detail needs to be considered here, to the extent that such warnings can affect products introduced in Icelandic rights. I am next to think that there is not much room and will discuss it in a talk, especially in the light of Article 3. The European Economic Area and Protocol 35, so called.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u279	Madam President. Yes, thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson for the indications and questions. I have to study these two new suggestions on legal warnings. A senator pointed me out, at least two on Facebook as quick as you can. A senator. It is, in fact, a search for legal advance of the government, which it presents as a real core precept that national rights can be turned aside from the European Union's energy directive. This legal advance is being searched, and we are here on speakers to get answers. I challenge the council members to come in and make an appointment in a pita and answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u280	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for a fine speech. He made the subject even. About the victory of the Seleucians in handball, but what was closer to the cause here was a warning to those appointed by the management forces, but they have various manifestations, and they may not be found. In view of the fact that such warnings can meet the European Economic Area Convention - because we are now discussing the induction of a pack of three energy, and this introduction will be part of the Convention, we are discussing whether it is at the head of warning that the European Economic Area (EEC) will simply pass the Convention. In this regard, I would like to read Article 3. The European Economic Area Convention, which says: Any relevant, general or special measures should be taken by the partners to ensure that commitments to the commitments of this agreement will be made. By making legal arrangements at home, this article will be contrary to the agreement. ▪ They should be careful that measures that may, in turn, be taken that the objective of this agreement will be met. If we run this thing together with the EEA committee and run it down in stone like we did with the fishing government, it'll be part of the deal and its objectives. If that route has gone, we're in trouble with this article. They should further facilitate cooperation within the framework of this contract. And 5. goes on to say: At any time, partners can bring up anxiety issues on the joint EEA Commission or the EEA board according to the 2 mg recommendation. 92. g. 2 mg. 89st. as appropriate. [[The president calls.]] Now I know what to do. A senator is already a law major. How does he understand this text?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u281	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the question. When the government introduced the proposed induction of the energy directive, they introduced it with the intention that it, however, be placed on a legal basis. It was the presentation. And the opposition that had been seen within the governments before this came about like the dew before the sun. Of course, they were excited to see what the government groups would have invented, which was so brilliant, that we could adopt this without any risk, Madam President. Then, when asked about it at a council meeting, the matter was presented as if it were not so clear. Some statements and meetings and texts are addressed in a report, as I have mentioned, so people are not sure. There are no clear answers. There's a difference, like the police. Then they would say: "It will be a matter of conversation, as it is called in police language. We're still very excited about this. In fact, I'm going to have more explanations about where this warning is going, and maybe some day the executives will point out exactly where it is to be found, but I haven't seen it, and I haven't heard so conclusively that we have the right and true legal advance in our hands. But I've heard from regulations. And regulations in the European Union now have a great deal of importance and legal value. But as everybody knows, Iceland's regulations are being published in Shadow Lane. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u282	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. With regard to this contract and the reasons for this agreement, it has been stated, including ... ofa majoritydiscriminator. The Foreign Affairs Committee, that there will be a lot of political uncertainty if we do not go this way, if we go back to the EEA joint committee. We could even be expelled from the EEA community. Ninety-seven. The agreement itself says: "In advance of the principle of equality. What does that mean in a negotiation? That means they're evenly on the contract, i.e. that treaties should not be carried out or should not be dealt with by force of force or threat. Such contracts in general are considered invalid. [[The president calls.]] I kind of need to talk more about this, but I'm asking why. A senator to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u283	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for these indications and meditation, and he will do my best to answer them. But I had come so far as to speak of the government's proclamation. I believe that it was essential to many members of the Parliament when they made a decision in this matter within the government, especially within the administrations, to announce that the legal defenses may even have been a reason for decision when they decided to support the case. Then, when the warnings appear to be rather foggy, so to speak, I ask: What was the purpose of this event? Was that just a word of mouth? Was it some kind of deception to get people involved? However, as we wait to see this legal advance, we demand that they be pointed out and held. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u284	Madam President. I'm very thinking about what I'm talking about. A senator because he is a natural lawyer that I am not, and so to the former. This case arose from some independent council members that they had been very skeptics on this matter, but they had finally become convinced and had become supporters of it. I think it's very interesting as hell. A senator says, because of the missing guards. If this wasn't such a serious matter, you could compare it to a baby book called Where's Valli? But this is, naturally, a far more serious issue than it should be. And it is naturally very serious if men have been deceived into cooperating with this agreement under the premise that this is a legal arrangement, which is so obvious that it is not. It's an unsettled Regulation, and I don't know what. I've also been concerned about the value of these available warnings for Iceland and the arrival of Iceland to the deal. Because of education. A senator would like to ask him to review it for us, the unnecessary warnings to be set up in a later Regulation: Do they have any absolute legal value if this contract were to test and its value against the protestors, with respect to the European Union? [[The president calls.]] Do the Foremen Have Real Value?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u285	Madam President. That's exactly the bottom line, and as someone said, the food of the calf, we're advertising for these initiatives to evaluate them, in order to assess their value, the values of which they have national rights, that the government will provide a warning that will make it possible for us to implement the EU energy directive, in particular Regulation 713, which makes it safe to accept this case again at the General Assembly. This is why, this is the decision premise I discussed earlier, for many of the directors who may not have taken very deep into the matter decided to back it up, because solid men said: "It's safe because we're setting a legal warning. I've made some suggestions about where to find him. He's not found in a meeting at the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs with some people in Europe It's not found in statements on Liechtenstein and Norway that we're an island and there's no sea cable here. It is not to be found in a change, an unnecessary change in electrical law that was already found in the law. He can't be found in a paper, Madam President, with a concierge proposal to accept here. It is not included in the text of the report. It's not a legal company, it's text in a paper. And it is not found in the Ministry Regulation. I'll get better at that later. It is not included in the Icelandic Regulation, published and written on a desk at the highest level. Minister. It is not a legal predestination, nor is it of any value, such as why. A senator came by in his question, of course, is of no value in the large context of the implementation of EU energy directive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u286	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. On the contrary, it does not encourage you. On the contrary, it makes you more concerned because of the fact that this case, and actually, driving through the council at a record rate, flaffreally, under the pretext that there was a legal warning. We have heard about this in this discussion, and it has become more and more evident as it has gone on, showing us more and more fully the need for that discussion and the need to continue to do so in order to understand it. So I ask why. A member of Parliament: Is it not most successful, since it is now discovered that the legal warnings are at best, like puny tents or something like that, that we take this matter aside, save it until the fall, and do it better? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u287	Madam President. I'd like to give the government full opportunity, Madam President, to come here and explain the warning better and point it out to us. It may be somewhere to be found and possibly to be along the way, and of course I want to give them every chance to show us where it is. I've talked about at least five tips from the management board on which to find this warning. I cannot see, and argue that any of these five warnings have any national value so that it can be safely introduced by the European Union's energy directive and reassigned its administrative notice. But I'd like to give the government full opportunity to show us where to find him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u288	Madam President. After this much consideration of the warning, I think maybe it would be right to turn to other aspects of this global matter, but there is an impact on the environment and nature. I intend to speak here, of course, by the permission of the President, the review of the Hjörleifur of Hjörund Guttormsson, in which he agrees. But because I think I know I'm the highest. Mr. President is interested in the use of prices and the effect of the induction of the energy package on electrical prices, and I'm going to allow myself to start my discussion of the late President's review of the Hjörleifur Guttormsson son, which says in section 6 of his review, by permission of the President: There would be no significant increase in the energy market for the EU, which would result in a large increase in the energy prices for enterprises and households, including the price for house warming, both direct electrical heating and heat plants, which is partly based on electricity costs. But enough of this, Madam President. Guttormsson is a natural anthropologist, and he is very familiar with the public, not just because of his political involvement, but because he has written the guidebooks of the travel society's genius, so I allow myself to say so, and they have become a few. He has made his home eastern parts very well and admirable in the way he deals with his natural and environmental subjects. According to Hjörleifur, son of Guttormsson, by permission of the president, Article 7. The headline is nature of the country and the public. In addition to homes and small companies that pay the cost of energy induction package three and that are linked to the EU system, there will be Icelandic nature, rivers, lakes and surfaces, tolerability of increased intensification by the expected transfer of electrical energy to the eye. Even now this may be a negative view of landowners and some rural communities for protecting valuable natural areas, including the idea of the central highlands all as national parks. Be aware that the class teaching itself in green policy should become a participants in such a expedition rather than take the initiative to support the public interest in the energy resource and adjust its moderate efficiency. For the rural population, it is also particularly at stake, so incomprehensible that those who claim to be advocates of those who will endure the attack on a three - pack supply of energy will be required. In section 8 of the review of Hjörleifur Guttormsson, the title: Enforcement under the Environment and Resource Ministry, says, by permission of Presidents: Contrary to what is happening with a pack of three energy, which transforms the Power Institute into a global monster, the Agency should ensure that the public interest, including protection and protection against the nature of the country, is being maintained. Another factor has been the long-term situation, as the Agency's irreprehensible research permit for the inactivation premise reveals it. In order to ensure the need for harmonisation and assessment of resource protection and efficiency, it is long time to bring the issues of Energy Agency under the Environment and Resource Ministry and the same should be the first to be done by the Marine Research Institute, now under the management of marine export and agriculture. I also think it's proper to grab down to the 9th of the Hjörleifur Guttormsson's account, where he's discussing the need for public interest in the energy resources. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Instead of promoting a special interest point and a key basis for a local life, the World Council should apply itself to other and clearer standards for public energy use on fallwaters and geothermals as set at this time. So many were words. Let me say that these aspects of the matter, nature protection and environmental factors involved in this energy package have not been discussed at all. There are no reports in this important matter, and this certainly is not the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u289	Madam President. What a powerful warning! One is that in this case that has to do with the left movement a ◯ green supply that I cannot quite get to get together. It is the fact that greens have had their approach to environmental protection and protection based largely on opposition to national activation projects. I think there's some examples of possible initiatives offered by the left moving to the green. I can't really mention one thing. There's nothing to indicate to the left green that by harnessing renewable environmental energy, we are doing our part in the climate of the world, since their approach to Iceland has been highly developed, and the main aim is to see that this would be the least done. I find it very difficult to get this to agree with the members of Parliaments' left green now with this energy package because it is inevitable that it will contribute to a very substantial increase in national activation projects of various ways. And then it doesn't mean anything to them that they like to move out these green energy so we can take part in reducing the world's emissions because we're already doing it using this green energy here in Iceland. Got it. A senator somehow to snap together, i.e. Left greener viewpoint for years and decades and then sudden support by their members to the energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u290	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit that I have often considered the subject he discussed, which is the position of one category teaching itself in green, thus representing itself as at least one. interested in nature and environment. This same group may be more responsible for major coal incineration in a northern business company, and it must be said that when the amount of tons that is burned in that country is often superseded each year. This programme is here to include the Directorates and Environment Ministry, but when naturalists rise up and point out that the highlands of the West may be one of the last unsatisfactory, at least In this part of the world, he sees nothing of that responsibly rescuer, and he is expecting nothing more than a mechanical device and a bulldozer to go free before long. Thus, the environmental policy of this class, as it did in speech and action, is a complete mystery. I'm going to allow myself to use this opportunity to remind you that the general rule of activation within ten megawatts is not an environmental assessment. That's why I've asked a question for the highest level. Industrial Minister on which patents have been issued to the fortresses of that kind, hydropower and wind power, as well as on which sources have been provided to set up such activations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u291	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for asking this timely inquiry. We should bear in mind that the production in this country would normally be far environmentally significant, but if the same kind of production were produced in other countries. Nevertheless, left greens have been very alert to the increase in energy production in Iceland. But it's not only that, it's not just this thing with the around the side, it's also what it's like. A senator entered his speech regarding the market area of energy. In other words, Madam President, it is as if with their support for this case, the left movement is a green offer to reach a full house in opposition to the roots of its own party and core policy, whether in the left side or the green side.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u292	Mr. President. Obviously, it is not unforeordained as a dog. A senator makes this the subject of conversation. It is minimal to recall that in a recent newspaper article by Algmund Jónasson, only he does not know the sect as he once knew it, and he actually walks, he has been a member of that party for decades and ministers, so far as he really mocks the class. He suggests a change of name so that the movement would then be short - range. And it shows how disappointed the band has apparently led to Ögmundur and has seen many more good and good, to form environments and people who have a sense of nationality that would otherwise lead to people not being particularly separate from the national sovereignty of energy resources to foreign institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u293	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's excellent speech and review of how the political climate can be like the Icelandic weather can change without warning. Hv. A senator quoted from the writings of Hjörleifur, son of Guttormsson. In Iceland, there is a social agreement and it has been for a long time. We've been at peace with our resources as national property. We may experience other views in young people, extremes to the right or to the left, and that is normal when you are young, sometimes called in politics, that young people who maintain such views are the conscience of the party, a little to hold up the older people who are engaging in politics, so that they have oxygen in the blood. The need for electricity in Iceland is even greater than in many other countries, everyone needs electricity. Whether people are of high degrees or low, they have high levels of material or memory, they are oppressive, and we need energy to survive. Don't get caught up in it, huh? Senators, men older than 20th in politics and come from all ranks - Hjörleifur Guttormsson, Ögmundur Jónasson, Tómas Ingi Olrich, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, Davíð Oddsson, test ball, all of whom have taken positions of responsibility - seems to agree on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u294	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He'd cut off some of the factors that could be discussed here in a long time. One was the social problem, and another was how the energy package has become a great and powerful uniting force in people from many parts of society who have worked on the basis of different political ideals. I've had a few meetings in the company that calls itself the Power of Ours, and there are most of them fine men, fine men, mighty men, as well. A senator mentioned. And speaking of men who are known for their earlier political activities, it is probably true that a man like Jón Bjarnason, who was here at a council for the left - green, served as ministers for that class. Likewise, regarding the Community covenant, it is a lot to consider. I've sometimes wondered if there's some sort of social agreement in Iceland about that there's a main policy - I'm throwing it out as a hypothesis -- is at least... for now, water sources are activated which are believed to be available in the light of environmental protection and protection. We're doing a little bit more work here for new energy sources. It is the wind and the solar energy; it will come to a far greater degree - and some distances, after a few decades, the activation of tides will occur. So the future of Iceland's energy issues is bright.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u295	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for the answer. Now, the men I mentioned in my previous answer are not exactly known for their involvement in politics. It is not that they all sit in smoke - filled back rooms together, rocking with one another but with one another. These are men who have been responsible in society and who have always succeeded. Tómas Ingi Olrich and Davíð the son of Oddsson were still brothers: but Jón the son of Hannibalsson was of the second, and Hjörleifur the son of Guttormsson, and Algmund the son of Jónasson also. But it is clear that these men agree on one thing, and that is this community covenant. Well, maybe. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u296	President. Yes, I'm going to allow myself to say that the social deal is in effect, in the sense that it is. A senator is talking about, i.e. The Treaty that energy resources are owned by the nation and energy production companies are owned by the nation as a major policy. There's very good news that the pension fund got all its things in HS Power. The Pensions are naturally owned by the public, a treasuremate, so it has become a source of great joy. The distribution system is also driven by the Landsnet. This is a public service. I believe in this state of community covenant. One thing that causes concern about the third energy package is that it could not only meet the constitution but also run across and threaten this communityly treaty, which I believe is very vast and accepted among the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u297	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. In the senator's speech, it became clear that many older politicians do not seem to understand as we do here what has happened to their classes. I was at some point this morning or night discussing an article by Tómas Ingi Olrich, where he was very skeptical and is still. It's the same with Hjörleifur Guttormsson. I am going to quote much from Hjörleifur Guttormsson in my next talk. Of course, I understand that men like the Hjörleifur Guttormsson don't understand why in death of the left greens have become the leading spokesman for electrical markets. Of course they don't understand, because this is so far away from the group they helped to establish in their time. This category has now taken a complete U-turn. On the formation of the government that now operates, they said, "We're going to meet in the middle." It is as if a fusion between an independent party and a left green, which, in fact, involves itself. In that the left green are key advocates of electrical energy markets, and the Independence Party is involved in trying to choke every opportunity for private health care success. So you don't quite realize what's going on in there. Hjörleifur has serious doubts about the matter, and I want to ask him why. A senator would review the question a little better in what might be the most doubtful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u298	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. First thing. A senator specifically mentions Hjörleifur Guttormsson, of course, is that he had the trade minister's office earlier in the reign of Ólafur son Jóhannesson, who was formed on July 14, 1971, pretends I remember right, which was all until Geir Hallgrímsson formed his government on September 28, 1974. [to be 28 August 1974. See Councilman's correction on May 28, 2019. 14:47.] Remembering this is the least possible. So he has a long perspective and a great knowledge of this class, not only from the viewpoint of a man who has served in the office of the industrial minister of great times but also in the power of his great knowledge of nature, his research, and its writing work. It is of interest in our time that political parties that have not worked together in the republicry era in such cooperation, as they do today. It's totally unknown that the Independence category, forward group, and what was formerly called the UN, is now left green or something, the left movement of an offer, I think it's called full feet, working together. Of course, the Independence Party and the Socialist Party worked together, together with the Allegorical Party, in 19443/4:1946. But it's not like these classes, which are there so far away from each other, to claim the best in one another. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u299	Madam President. I think that's exactly what I'm saying. Senator. Another shot in my head now that we're discussing this, because it's the first time a government of this kind, if we can put it that way, it can get to power in Iceland. It doesn't really get out of my head that, in many ways, it's some kind of experiment work. However, it is naturally fundamentally serious when the nation's experiment is being done on the shoreline for some form of uncertainty, as this has been called by the values of lawyers, wise men. That's what worries you so much that this adventure tour has begun with the nation's shoreline in the fish. What may be worst about this is that although we have repeatedly brought it up in this discussion, it seems that we are not going to be informed and to take it aside and take it more seriously, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u300	Madam President. How remarkable and peculiar it is to think that, in view of their prehistoric history, these three groups, with their earlier and later emphasis, are united in this matter in the way that they actually are. Here, the opinion of well - established scholars is clear. Their main suggestion is that there will be a way into this case that will be supported by the regulations of the EEA itself and there will be no legal uncertainty about it. Somehow, however, there has been a way of going in an uncarded area. It's an adventure, like a cot. A senator put it through, completely uncertain. It is also a wave of legal warnings that no reasonable person will think of being taken seriously or that they will be recognized as having at least a national value that any court would accept or take into consideration as a serious matter in the event of some legal process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u301	Madam President. I'm afraid I'm a bit anxious to call the five-minute comments we receive here talks, but I suggested yesterday that we call them bandits. But I will try to make the most of my time in order to cover a very good interview with the highest level. Secretary of finance, to encourage us in this matter. I had only begun to mention this in my first talk, but I will continue where I left off because of the highest. A minister clearly finds out what we should be thinking about in this matter. "Bjarni son of Benediktsson, the highest, " says Bjarna. Minister, in the business magazine, actually - there they rephrase the interview at the Daily Telegraph - with the permission of the president: ▪ They [EU] are almost being rude, it's as if it's just trouble in their eyes that they ask when we're gonna get rid of. ▪ Why can't everyone just become a permanent member? I can separate them from a political point of view, but the situation is simply that if there is a international agreement [as we have], it has to be respected, that's just the way it is. - Says the highest. Secretary of finance. The recommendation is said to follow the International Parliament's promise to revise the EEA contract because there is an increase in concern over its application to enhance the EU's impact on national internal issues. The article will finally explain how the contract provides market access but also the free flow of labor. Legal matters are settled by the EFTA Court, which is independent, although it is often looked to by the European Court's decision. A subheading then says: The EU energy package was controversial. Then we will learn how much the third energy package has been divided here in the country and how it has been affected, as the business newspaper has discussed, and we can see at the bottom of the story. According to the report, the Icelandic government is concerned that with the development of the energy company, ACER, the management of Iceland's own resources will become weaker and more controlled by the Commission in the EU. This is what we have been describing concerns about too. So says Bjarni Benediktsson, U.S.A. Secretary of the budget: ▪ Our initiative in the inner market is based on a two-channel system, as shown by Bjarni, and points them to the provision of the legislation on the basis of EFTA rather than to accept direct control from the EU. But then there's a subheading: The EU's scandalous approach. ▪ The fact that the EU thinks we would accept anything else is simply shocking. But that's what they're trying to do. - Says the highest. Secretary of finance. He says it's simply shocking if we agreed on this form of energy with the third energy package and the ACER, but he points out: "But this is what we're trying to do. This is what we watch at the council now. This is certainly being tried, but it is being tried by those who should be least tried. It is being tried by the government, including the highest. A minister who spoke so strongly and clearly in this interview, in a way that puts things in perspective, should be a good incentive for us to continue this struggle. During an interview in the Business Journal at Bjarni Benediktsson, U.S.A. Secretary of finance also states: ▪ This has, according to Bjarni, made it difficult to maintain and secure national independence in all matters, although the country is not a member of the EU. As a result, he showed that despite this agreement, there are benefits, but at the same time we have the freedom to negotiate free shops with other countries, such as China. Now, Madam President, I hope this is a very good interview with Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance, may all of us members of the Parliament be encouraged to examine this matter into the background, heed the warning. Secretary of finance, will pay attention to it immediately the highest. According to a minister, efforts are being made to use this ACER agency to gain greater control over Iceland's energy resources. And agree with him when he says it's a scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u302	Madam President. The interview we heard from earlier has in itself the effect that you have strong doubts about the rightness and duty to the highest degree. A minister of finance would come here to meet us and discuss this matter with us. That's exactly right. Those words of his during the interview are very encouraging, and they would have been doing well as a good pep talk, for example. In the House of Independence, to take this matter aside now and to cover it better and to try to improve matters in some way. V.E.G. The minister of finance has had it in a few flimsiness that I changed the political party once in my life, but I have told him that it is the prudent way of changing my mind occasionally, as Churchill noted. However, I find this conversion very interesting, so I would have liked to have personally had the opportunity to communicate with him about what caused him to act so completely. But as mentioned earlier and earlier, he is not alone in this case, and perhaps it's just a smell of the merger I mentioned earlier between the left green and the independent party that seems to be developing. So I would like to pray. A senator is to review just what he thinks was likely the development of a financial minister so completely changing his mind and so completely about the course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u303	Madam President. It's not good to say, but I still hope that in my heart it has the highest. The secretary of finance did not change the course, so clear on his stand and so firmly so. Certainly, it would be very good if it were the highest. The secretary of finance is being taken part in discussions about the matter at the General Assembly. Better yet, rather than taking sides with him to answer questions on behalf of the Supreme One. Secretary of state that has not yet been found, if the highest. The secretary of finance would join us in explaining to the Supreme Court. Secretary of State and his members of the Congress of Independence and the whole administration team, why there are so many things to be avoided in this third energy package, because the highest. A minister, as we have heard, is fully aware of how dangerous this is and calls this statement a scandal in the European Union, pointing out that they are trying to move up on the handle and how dangerous it may be for us Icelanders. I've noticed that the highest. The secretary of finance has not expressed himself extensively on the subject, occasionally, in reply to queries during the question period, and always complained that they should not ask the highest question. Secretary of state. I hope that there is still some hope for the ultimate. Whether this is the interview I've read from earlier or is at the top, a minister will review the previous procedure that he so reasoned with and with such conviction. Minister at the council, I remember, for example. from one talk that I saw reason to commend him especially after she received it. He was very specific about the same subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u304	Madam President. I can say for myself that the highest. A financial minister and head of the Independence Party would convince me in a moment to be against a pack of three energy with the words he uses in this interview. I wouldn't doubt a moment. You're absolutely right. A senator, of course, was a great help when he joined us and tried to unwind this matter for our good all. I'm like a whisk. A senator noticed that in inquiry, unsupervised, the subject has the highest. A minister has been reluctant to answer, and rather sneered, to ask questions about the matter for some reason. It may just be because he has a mental crisis. If he's been so firm, as in this interview and elsewhere, maybe he doesn't feel comfortable in turning so completely off the course as if it were true. So I have to say again that in itself it would be very interesting, interesting, and necessary to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister and Chairman of the largest political party in Iceland on this matter and simply ask him, "What's changed so completely? Has the European Union abandoned its expansion policy? Is it possible for those around them to withdraw from their association? Have they acted differently than in recent years, which has led to the highest degree. The minister and chairman of the Independence Party have so completely changed the course? [[The president calls.]] This is something we would really need to hear about, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u305	Madam President. Yes, we'd be able to move much faster and get to the point sooner if they did. Councilmen or the highest. Ministers who expect the council to approve the council show up at the Assembly Hall or in the Assembly Hall and discuss the matter. While there is no one to answer for it, we are in fact forced to continue our research work, to dig up what may be happening in these government groups, why on the other hand they have absolutely flammable, and then I'm not just talking about transponsion in terms of the previous statements, even a better speaker as in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance, also maintains the transformation of the supporters of these classes and of their basic policy, even of the basic ideals of which they were formed. Yet, we must keep on trying to get to the bottom of this and to comfort ourselves. We can recall that the discussion has, in spite of all things, brought us forward. We are constantly learning more and come to terms with the situation. There is no secret, however, that it would go faster and better if the supporters of the case trusted to defend it here in the chamber. As long as they do not, we must continue our work and be reminded that, despite all of it, they have results. We are constantly discovering new surfaces and getting a more full picture of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u306	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his talk, as in previous discourses, Gunnlaugsson sailed to Gunuga's office as the son of Gunnuga. The interview as far as I'm concerned. A senator has been referring to the matter very interesting. It actually makes a statement on the international level in this interview. Ministers are just as much as the government policy in Iceland is and it's made clear that we're going to follow the EEA deal and that it should be respected, that's just the way it is. Is it not that with the contract itself it is not the highest? Minister, at least not at the time of the interview, to make any notice? Is it not clear that applying what is being said in the contract simply means applying the words, which are found in exactly 97 C.E.? The EEA Convention, by permission of the President: In advance on the principle of equality and after other contract agreements have been provided, this agreement does not affect the right of the individual parties to change national legislation in the areas involved in the contract: if the joint EEA Commission finds that changing legislation does not have an impact on the implementation of the contract; or if conditions 98th par. has been satisfied. Does this not simply mean that if these models are inserted, they actually have an impact for the worse on the implementation of the contract because, after the introduction, there will be a part of the contract? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u307	Madam President. I mentioned earlier what this discussion would have done for us, and it's going back to us. The case of a senator illustrates the urgency of the situation. A senator, after studying the agreement himself and the rules he builds on and carried out, actually learns that the main issue of how this agreement works is and what it is right for us to approach him and what to avoid. I agree, and you're absolutely right about what you're doing. A senator, that it should be particularly careful not to introduce but, rather, hope that the induction would have nothing to say, since that point does not affect the European Union, nor does ESAs. It is absolutely clear that there are ways in which humans can communicate, in cases such as this, in terms of putting it in a way of reconciliation that aims to resolve a solution that everyone can accept. But once they're brought in, they're already in and they can't go back. We have also received this information in this discussion and on committees that there are no examples of a state's taking one - side notice of induction, and that such warnings have had anything to say, for that is not, in accordance with what has been done. A senator pointed out, assuming that this is the way. On the contrary, it is stated that this is not how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u308	Madam President. Regarding the way things work, and the way they act, it is specifically spoken of in the 93s. The EEA Convention says, with permission of presidents: ▪ The European Commission appoints representatives of a contract. [...] Decisions of the joint EEA shall be agreed with an agreement between the Community, i.e. The European Community, the EFTA, and the EFTA, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, respectively, speak in one voice. There are two parties, these three countries and then the European Community, but the three EFTA countries should say one voice. In order to fulfill this arrangement, you need to speak in one voice. That's not what these countries have done, because Iceland now plans to put two priors, as far as I can get it, we're going to get it clear here by the government, but Norway's eight. Liechtenstein, on the other hand, has no warning. How can you view the situation as a mere expression of voice? I can't see any better, huh? A senator, but not yet fully contented by the EEA, EFTA countries, so that the rights were and we would wish to send the matter back to the joint EEA committee because the contract directly states that it is being done and that there is an attempt to find a conclusion that people can accept before making such an introduction, and after such a result, it is really safe to bring in. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have some thoughts at ease. A senator on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u309	Madam President. When it's made so clear, you're practically allowed. How is it to explain that governments, whether Iceland or Norway, should seek to get the National Assembly of these countries to accept something that is totally contrary to what is outlined in this clear and conclusive way? The so - called Norwegian models, which were real warning in that they were listed, told what conclusions each one of them should make, and then stated that it should be brought into the law. But you wonder whether there may have been a delusion to the Norwegian Parliament in view of the lack of consultation on this warning against the Icelanders, whether any government in that country has hoped that the Norwegian Parliament would believe, perhaps in part, that such a one - sided notice could be realized, and that the Norwegian senators would not learn the nature of these matters as well as that of a boy. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson has done. This underscores at least The indiscriminateness of Icelandic government practices, for their warnings, in case of warning, are no more than a general declaration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u310	Madam President. I've only done so in this discussion to pick up comments, talks, interviews, articles by older politicians that no longer know their classes. I left, for example. Over the course of Tómas Ingi Olrichur's article, and then I'll take it of a blog article by Hjörleifur Guttormsson, former member of the Common Community, and left greener, if I remember correctly -- I think he got it in line to sit in front of a left green and former minister. I don't think there's any human at all when I say that at the time of the implementation of the EEA deal and its approval in 1993, no man at the council has studied that agreement as thoroughly and thoroughly as possible and then. paritaprevir Guttormsson. He reviews historically that the deal was adopted by 33 votes against 23 and six sitting by. Among them were half of the Parliament's House of forwardness and three independent men. So we see that the EEA's affairs have always been controversial in Iceland, just from the beginning. There's nothing new about it now. It is surprising, though, that the 1993 discussion was not a problem but is somewhat shy now. Hjörleifur's article shows that he proposed a resolution on the EEA agreement and the Icelandic government ship and Hjörleifur partners at that time were not small. And these were the Steingrímur of Hermannsson's son's mask; and Anna the daughter of Ólafsdóttir, the son of Björnsson, and Ólafur Ragnar the son of Grímsson, at that time. Senator, later the president of Iceland. The initial word in this conclusion was this: ▪ The General concluded to set up a committee of six specialists who will see whether there is involvement in the European economy in the current or later contract initiatives to violate the Icelandic Government Directive or whether the Community constitution needs to be changed because of the proposed EEA Convention.◯ That proposal never made a final payment. She was practically thrown out. She did not get paid, she received a discussion, and she was sent to the State Department, and she lived because her money was not more important. Still on the EEA Treaty: When set up after this small vote at the council, he was sent to the then president of Iceland and 35,000 people asked her to refuse the contract, i.e. Don't deny a signature she didn't. Shortly before this is done here, the Switzerland EEA deal was set up in a national law, and it was struck. The Swiss are still out there. It's about the history of the case, and I didn't intend to stay so long on it, but I was going to go more to the present and explain the opinions of Hjörleifur Guttormsson son of the third energy package he warned about, that the EU will not be able to control the resources of the country through the energy package. The article originally appeared in the morning paper, and Hjörleifur is highly and clearly critical, as it is hoped and referred to, all the development of the government in the presentation of the third energy package, on the Congress case, etc. Now I see my time is running out. It's all too short, so I have to take care of Hjörleifur's attitude toward this deal we're about to go over, this package. However, in view of the highest knowledge that Hjörleifur has on the development of the EEA Convention, I considered to be free of charge over what he set out so well and I was presenting here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u311	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. A member of the United States has both discussed the viewpoint of Hjörleifur the son of Guttormsson. I traced it to the public before him that his work in the field of nature was well - known. Each year, in many Icelandic homes, the guidebook of travel is a pearl, and it has discussed the Eastern Society, especially the Shire, in excellent ways. Like what? A member of the Parliament has very clear knowledge and insight into issues affecting the European Economic Area. I allowed myself at the beginning of my talk earlier to quote his comments in his review as he is involved in the effect of bringing in this third energy package on an electrical price in this country. You ask yourself, in view of the fact that two members of the Independence Party have recently discussed this in magazine articles, whether it is not necessary to call for a economic opinion on this important matter, how they would be affected by the introduction of the package on energy prices to homes and employment companies. We know that this could affect a number of other factors, such as index, debt, interest payments, and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u312	Madam President. I have previously seen in my case that in itself there are many faults in presenting such a significant matter as this in a judicial arrangement. Assure proposals will not be costed in any way, however, it is quite clear that accepting the third energy package has a tremendous economic impact. It has a bearing on every household in the country. That's why it's in itself, as I say, very evil that it should be up and put forward like this. I strongly agree, as it were. One senator says, of course, that we need a economic evaluation of the effects of this energy package. I just wondered, because now it's the highest. The president came to his throne, whether there may be a lack of information, including. By such means, those independents who had the most doubts about this matter recently came to grips with the fact that this case would be resolved here, i.e. that they lack the necessary information on the effects of consenting to this process. I'll take my whole mind off it with you. Senator. We need to do so - and not just us, the people need to know this - what the economic effects of the induction of this package are. We've already talked about the induction of the current legal uncertainty, so we need, of course, to know what the economic effects are about the induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u313	Mr. President. It's all at the same well here. This case has been submitted in a totally inadequate way. It's not studied. Consider some examples. We're looking for a legal warning, and we in the middle class are trying to help out in that regard. We are here with a lawyer, a former sheriff and a businessman, who works hard to find this warning as it has appeared in human language, so we are putting forth effort. I allow me to reiterate what I've been saying here several times before that once, and if these officers were to be found, there is not only a legal opinion on the national value of such a warning. In general and in advance, the implementation of the EU Regulation is induction and cannot be changed. The induction is on the regulations of the beast, and it is a fundamental law that the national rights are to give way to national rights. This knows everyone who has opened a book in national rights. Here is a very important matter that is unsearched, the economic impact as we have been. Of course, there is only one question, but how important it is: What would be the effect on electricity prices? This is of utmost importance to homes and employment companies. There is no question that the legs would be pulled away from the important sectors of the country that are energy efficient and would lose their competitive position if it happened, that this energy package would be approved by the increase in electric prices that can be called predictable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u314	Mr. President. You're right on top of it. Senator. The economic evaluation of the impact of the approved package would also eliminate any doubt, let me say, a misunderstanding, because the recent publication of two members of the Independence Party is almost consistent with articles in which they assume that this package will be approved to reduce electrical prices. It is, in fact, highly contradictory to the consequences of the induction of the first and second energy package in Iceland. It still comes to what this discussion has brought forth the populars it has stood and has continued to deepen, Mr. President, and continues to improve and to build upon the doubts that we have here many concerning this energy package. Surprisingly, the ones most approved for this package have not even sat in the Senate Hall and followed up the discussions. It's a little different than the people themselves because we know of responses we've received from a variety of ways, missiles, text messages, and e - mails, that the people are following this discussion. She is interested in her, even in the middle of the night, we are being encouraged to continue fighting and to try to make those who are the followers of this matter understand and neglect it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u315	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I must agree with the senator that it is right not only to make an analysis of the effects on electrical prices but to first identify if these warnings are in harmony with or if they are simply to be found in the decision made by the joint EEA NTS. 93/2017 from May 5 of the same year. I have this remarkable document, the Joint EEA decision from May 5th. That document is about what to include in the contract. This remarkable summary says, on permission of the president: The decision of the EFTA Agency shall, without a warning, be agreed on by the Agency on the basis of what has been agreed on by the Agency's own initiative or at the request of the EFTA monitoring centre. When the Agency prepares the EFTA for use in accordance with this Regulation, they must inform the EFTA monitoring facility. The latter must set up a delay that the EFTA authorities have to give their opinion on the matter, taking full note of the urgency and complexity of the case, and the consequences it may have. Furthermore, it says: The EFTA authorities may request a review of their decision by the EFTA Bureau. The EFTA monitoring facility should send this request to the Agency. If this is the case, the Agency should consider preparing new levels for the EFTA monitoring agency and replying without an unfortunable delay. The contract itself says that the parties should make all appropriate general or special measures to ensure that commitments will be made by the agreement. They should be on guard against measures that could jeopardize the objective of this agreement. [[The president calls.]] They should further facilitate cooperation within the framework of this contract. Doesn't this just mean that, huh? A senator, that these officers can't think?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u316	Mr. President. This has been reflected repeatedly in our case, which is here on the watch. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has been looking for these warnings. He has been looking for the information received from some members of the council who are supplied with this energy package and who have often said that the warning is here and there and all of this - but they are nowhere. All we know is that the biggest defence will be set up in a later Regulation. I am not a law-trained man, unlike a sitting president, and I have neither language nor law experience, as he has, and this may be one more that can convince a man how precious it would be to have a member of the management board for his discussion, I don't speak of a man of a calibre, if I may say so, seated. A president who would likely be very careful about these matters. Unfortunately, no member of the board has entrusted himself with coming here and having a place to say. This is most unfortunate because, as I said earlier, the nation is following this discussion more closely than the general members themselves. That's it. In itself, it is natural to do good, and it is very satisfying to feel that the nation is not like us; it is hard work for us. However, in the same way, only a person reduces knowing that the members of the agreement are not prepared to come here and give advice on why we should accept it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u317	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. These are not warnings. I'm going to say this here in the General's symposium that these are not warnings. They don't think, they have no legal value on the European Economic Area Convention and they have no legal value to the induction of a pack of three energy. Here may be a problem, but I'll be the first to eat this statement into my mouth if the followers of this introduction can appear in the General's public speaking program and prove it with physical arguments and legal support that my claim is false. Here's the perfect opportunity, huh? Councilmen, to take a Middle Classman and make him a nobody in a pita, in the public assembly. I've repeatedly referred to the European Economic Area Convention, and I'm doing it again. In the 5th. says: At any time, partners can bring up anxiety issues on the joint EEA Commission or the EEA board according to the 2 mg recommendation. 92. g. 2 mg. 89st. as appropriate. ◯ Six. says: ▪ In advance on the development of future courts, the implementation and application of the terms of this agreement should be interpreted in accordance with the decision of the European Community's European Court to which it is relevant to the signing of this contract has been agreed, although it is in accordance with the principles of the Treaty of the European Community Treaty and the establishment of the Kola and Steel Act adopted by the application of these two covenants. I think it's a death issue for the followers of this energy package to come here and sign my words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u318	V.E.G. President. There is much to say about the Party of Independence, but one thing is certain, he does not lack lawyers. There are lawyers everywhere, and I think it might be good for a party of Independence Party and members of the Independence Party that, as one of them could see, he could come here and take over to us like a dog. A senator said here earlier to make it, and even to us all, being meaningless in this matter. It must be tempting to offer a party of Independence Party to come here and strike us cold. Still, I'm going to advertise the fact that the officers of the energy package are coming here for a game and moving us like one of the finest packs of these packages, convince us, as one puts it, and convinces us once and for all, that we're only in crows and induces and villas and sponges. Because I know it's the highest. The president is the head of his party, which a jurist I would recommend, most of all, I would want him to come here. I know he's busy now, but there are times. I wish he'd come here and spank us a little legal. However, others exist in the group, so this is a military impulse for them to be seen here and to participate. I'm going to say once more that this discussion is being followed more by the nation than by the general council itself. One day you'd have heard of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u319	Mr. President. I have been in recent discussions to review the European Parliament's decree and the Council No. 72/2009, the spine in a pack of three energy, one of the basic materials, has reviewed several of the articles of this directive and is then presented in Article 37. on the duties and authority of the surveillance authority. I had come to discuss number six. ... thattheCourourory, with the permission of the President, is: ▪ You are responsible for making a decision or agreeing to at least The methodology used to calculate or set the conditions and conditions for the following in advance before they take effect: a) Account and access to national networks, including records for transport and distribution or their methodology These currency or methodologies should allow necessary investments to occur in networks in a way that ensures the function of the network. What does that mean? No, the check-up authority, which is then the Power Institute, which has been separated from the European Commission and has provided a warrant for guilty payment, which is usually in the hands of the courts, should be put, with reasonable notice, conditions for the link and access to national networks, i.e. The transport system of electrical energy owned by the Icelandic nation. Then there is some kind of authority that is an international, clear national rights that goes beyond the national rights that is taking control of how we repay currency and by methodology on who can connect to our national network, the Icelandic nation, which we built and build at the expense of taxpayers. So it will be done on the custody of a national institution and by European law. Go on says: ◯b) provide an equation service which should be administered most effectively and provide users with the appropriate encouragement to balance in-put and their assessment. Implementation services should be performed without discrimination based on objective criteria and... If any private, legal, domestic, or foreign person wants to connect to the network that is owned by the nation, then some kind of equality would have to do that, which is then premeditated - I know I'm going through it slowly and it's like tungst and ruffles, but I can't see better than that it's just gonna have to chew it up here and give out the teaspoons to understand what it really is. I repeat: The Multi-Annual Service shall be conducted without discrimination based on objective criteria and c) Access to structural structures across borders, including the rules for handling of transport ability and how to react to ductus arteriosus. As far as I can see from that, overthe international agency is responsible for the distribution system of electricity, which is part of our resource, to an over-ethnic institution. Furthermore, in the 13th count, it says: The Member States should implement an appropriate and effective management, management and transparency programme to avoid misuse of high-level positions, especially when it affects consumers and subjugation. In this arrangement, the terms of the treaty shall be taken into account, I can't get this done, Mr. President. I'm asking that I be put back on the rosary. I need to explain this number 13 more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u320	Mr. President. I have no doubt that a respectable president is at least... I'm as enchanted as I from the language of a dog. A senator and the clarity of the presentation. That's what I'm saying because I know it's the highest. The president who is sitting on the screen appreciates the demonstration and the reading of the law, reading basic information, to see what is really required, the goals and the effects. Thank you. A senator for making it so clear and clear. It is really very strange that the government has not taken the initiative to explain this so clearly and clearly, simply go to the bases, in the regulations, and explain the effects of this induction. But I'm afraid it's because the government doesn't want people to put themselves in exactly these things like that. A senator was describing earlier, that governments are hoping that humans will simply overlook the real nature of this matter. This further shows the importance of the present discussion, the reality of this third energy package and the effect it will have. But it is also helpful to look to the evidence of such rules. So I ask why. A senator knows if he is familiar with the example of Cyprus, an island like Iceland. This is precisely what has been put to the test, since the implementation of potential cables has been under the guidance of ACER and the Agency closely followed this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u321	Mr. President. It is now about this narrow interpretation - or my interpretation of this induction - that it seems that there was a greater interest in the discussion of being in the audience and receiving our answers. However, as the discussion began to become more accurate and more detailed, those in charge and the followers of the energy package withdrew, with the exception, that when two television cameras were introduced at the start of a meeting, people would see a reason to show off in the audience, perhaps to show voters that they were attending to their affairs. But I will not say. But here we are describing the main ideas of nationalities that I have a complete understanding of - on behalf of the European Community. That's where it's going. This is very clear. These are no wuss nor smoke in the mirrors, so you can spit on the beloved and fencing. As for ACER and Cyprus, I must admit that I have not carefully studied this case. But I have listened with some attention to speeches. Rather, the senator heard that he is going to review it later in talks and is looking forward to hearing more about the arrival of ACER in that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u322	Mr. President. You see, it is good to have both guidelines, the rules and the laws as they are written and the descriptions of their goals, as well as the actual examples of how they are applied. It seems so good to us Icelanders, who are discussing this in the year 2019 that the European Union introduced this energy package in 2009. Thus, there is considerable experience on how this is to work. Like what? A senator mentioned is the objective in accordance with EU ideologies and the aim of improving integration, and I would say increased media control. All of this is understandable from their viewpoint. But this is not understandable at all, nor is it acceptable from our viewpoint because the interests are so vast. The same is not true in terms of making a financial deal of energy and the lack of green energy in the European Union and the abundance of such energy in Iceland, on the other hand. As a result, the same solutions do not apply. But what I still can't understand after listening to speeches. The senator now and the previous talks that make it so clear, for a team, simply include the articles on which everything is based, is why the administrative part has not been able to discuss the matter on that basis. I can only think that they, therefore, would like to avoid discussing this on these grounds and conclude that they would hide the facts. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator who thinks that I'm going too far?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u323	Mr. President. Hide the facts? I don't know all the senators in this room, but a few of them are good ones. I'd like to protect myself from the thought that there is a deliberate attempt to deceive, but at least I think that this is a bit out of control. I believe that the will of certain parties, which are probably in the role of government officials, is that the energy package is introduced in its entirety and without limits. In order for this goal to be met, regulations in the country's law are warned, as you see them. But in this case, after induction the introduction has become a law of law, a part of the EEA Convention, which is a contract made by national rights. Any conflict or doubt there will be judged by the law rather than by the warnings set here at home. A very interesting legal opinion that came to the job board this morning confirms this, in a case that is urgent and must be recorded at the council, which is the so-called raw meat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u324	Mr. President. I've said that before. paritaprevir In fact, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson has done more introductoryly with this discussion than with the national groups all the time on which the matter has been planned. It would have been a pleasure in itself, and perhaps it would have been necessary for him to conduct this presentation, such as. for the Independence Party party, so that you could have some blame for what it's all about. It seems very obscure that humans have done so. Rather, it seems that they have been led into it, many of which are reluctant, and have described it here, as a whale. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon and others who have grudgingly described how they have become involved in this matter without wanting to do so and who have come in line with that needy spirit. But it has been very interesting and exciting to observe how it was affected. A senator brings these things forward. I'll admit I'm a bit busy with this power dealer, very busy with it. I am very busy when respected jurists come forward and say: " It's a career of power. Since only two are quoted at all times, there are others who have warned about this. We have been quoting one named Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, and among others we have warned very strongly about this. Perhaps I would like to pray. A senator tearing it up for us only with this power hall. He's done a lot of research on how it's shown up. But I ask him to go a little deeper into the way the European Union in itself is rather of all cards, such as this matter is now maligned and maligned. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if he could go over it for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u325	Mr. President. Now it is and humbly admit that I am not a law school student, even though I have spent some time in the U.S. School of Law School. But the reason I'm going through this is because there are lawyers, lawyers and lawyers, who have sent us a lot of data. There are interpretations and explanations that have encouraged me to look into these data better. Some of them have allowed themselves to be anonymous, as it were. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson came on, while others have not wanted, for their status, to be named here. This is understandable because they are in a position where they may be in a position to be directly involved in politics. However, in this deeper power capacity, the Constitution of Iceland is silent about the authority being given power. In this induction, it is clear that power is being handed over, and it is clearly defined as to what to do. However, the sources of these institutions and institutions are not clearly defined. It's an open law. It's called. It is not totally bound to what is being handed down, and to what extent, this is what is called a command. [[The president calls.]] There's a chance that this will pass the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u326	V.E.G. President. I want to quote for both president and all of us here in this jurist that I brought to book earlier, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson. He says, with President's permission: The Parliament's proposal must be rejected by the Parliament and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such procedures do not threaten participation in the EEA Treaty, fully ending in accordance with its regulations. Fear of such things is a dangerous partnership. A large part of the third energy package is not valid for Iceland, as the EU Energy Director and Foreign Minister have declared, and it is important that it be made up of the Joint EEA Committee. The Commission would hardly be able to find another sense, as the head of the Minister and Energy Manager, Iceland's ambassadors, Norway and Liechtenstein EFTA side and the representative of the European Commission. This would be the first time in the 25-year history of the EEA Convention, which the administrative officiating officer would be used, and the case referred back to the Committee, for the first time intended to transport Iceland's major natural resources to the national and regular activities of the EU internal energy market, which is not part of it. I'm just saying, Mr President, is this going to get any clearer? I don't think so. I'd like to pray. paritaprevir Þór Þorvaldsson took note of these words by the lawyer I presented. I ask him if he is not still absolutely firm in the belief that this is exactly what we should do. We should not be afraid to keep the whole EEA deal. We're not just supposed to read it like we're on a buffet and we don't have the guts to take advantage of the articles that directly discuss how we can shoot things to the EEA joint committee. Right?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u327	Mr. President. The example has been set to a degree. In the package leaflet IV, g-age 1. Number XII. The Annex to the EEA Convention says, after Iceland had negotiated specifically on a natural resource that Iceland wasn't ready to release: ▪ Despite 40th par. The agreement and the content of this Annex is permitted to continue using the oceans in force to sign the foreign rights and/or property rights of non-EU Member States in the field of fishing and fishing. And 2 mg. says, with permission of the president: This head should not prevent foreign investments or citizens who do not have legal homes in Iceland in communities that are only indirectly involved in fishing or fishing. Yet, national authorities have the right to commit an enterprise to an enterprise, here is a number of interventiones - some or all of which have been bought from foreign sources or citizens who do not have legal jobs in Iceland to dispose of investments in fish industry or in fishing vessels. That's quite an intervention from Iceland on the contract. But this was agreed because the legal route had gone and the terms of the agreement had been respected. Regarding rejecting the induction and sending back to the joint EEA committee, Dr. Carl Baudenbacher is clear in his opinion. It may be that these two men, Carl and Eyjólfur's understanding of the word "return" and that, however, it is not the same or that I am not translating correctly from Carl Baudenbacher's opinion, since the government in Iceland has not allowed so little to translate the documents in question, despite the Icelandic Convention. [[The president calls.]] But now the time has run away from me, and the bell has gone into the eye. I have to come in here in the second speech what I have to say about Carl Baudenbachers's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u328	Mr. President. So let's pick up the cable where it's at. A senator released him, the consequences of our legalizing the third energy package and taking up the case on the basis of a decision in the Treaty of the Common EEA Committee, I intend to produce an important witness in this matter. I have previously brought the witness to Davíð Oddsson, who was prime minister at that time and to the EEA Convention confirmed, but this time I want to refer to the testimony of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who was a foreign minister at that time and bar, along with prime minister, the greatest political responsibility for the case as well as for what he used, as everyone knows, to that fact. He asks in his opinion, by permission of the President: Will rejection of the legalization of the third energy package here upset the EEA deal? The answer to this question is clear: No. The EEA Treaty ensures that Member States have an unconvinced right to reject legalization in a designated field, if not applicable or not serving the interests of the State. For this, there are many examples. The rejection of induction does not result in any penalties. The result is that the case is referred to the joint EEA committee, where the case is agreed on. That's where the only reserves for safekeeping are. This unambiguous right of the EEA Member States to reject legislation from their own national interests, without a penalties, was from the beginning to the beginning, according to Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson - ◯ one of the main reasons for rejecting the office of authority under the contract within the limits of the same constitution. Thus, the Supreme Court de yure was accepted, which has been confirmed by the condemned de facto. Many now seem to have forgotten that the great success that was achieved for Iceland in the EEA treaties was not easy. Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson says: "I am so sure that he would have been caught without the support of our fellow workers in EFTA. This applies, e.g. We're about a fish vacation shop. I take it from our experience with the EEA contract at the time, that we had never achieved that success in two-way contracts. The same is true of almost full market access to the inner market, without my request. Congress being able to pay close attention - ◯ESB's challenge for access to resources instead of access to markets. Jón Baldvin says a little later: There are reports of mutual market access. However, it is not possible to negotiate access to a market for resource access. From there we are to take the risk that this will happen on the back, in the strength of the competition of the internal market, without the decision made by the Icelandic nation. Jón Baldvin further says: The EEA Convention is ultimately based on the political position of voters in the Member States. If the powerful agreement, the European Union, in effect, ceases to respect this principle of the EEA Convention and requires that the EFTA fully agree to what is right, regardless of national interests, support for the EEA deal is indiscriminate. Thus, the EEA contract, with all the benefits it has guaranteed Iceland during the past 25 years, can be very upset. At that time - Jón Baldvin says and concludes his review - ◯ carrying the sole responsibility that wants to impose the third energy package on the nation with unsurpassed consequences and in a struggle with national will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u329	V.E.G. President. That was pretty impressive. It spoke not only of the great sponsorship of the EEA agreement but of the man who has been sometimes called his author for Iceland and explained that no one can wonder that the deal guarantees the resources we've been saying has to do with the third energy package. However, he does not permit it to be that way; he also points out, as we have tried to point out, here in the Hall of Congress, that first humans are putting this agreement at risk if they do not trust in him to defend his rights. Therefore, in this context, in particular with these clear and explicit words, the propaganda, which was tried to promote the support that most members of Congress are supporting this energy package, the fear that we could put the EEA agreement at risk if we didn't simply give up, completely up, when men look at the facts of the matter and see it and hear it so clearly from the man who may know the agreement best of all, that it is just the way in which it stands before us, that we will not be afraid to defend our own interests, which will put this agreement at risk. So I ask why. Senator: If this energy package is achieved, how does it feel? Senator that it will affect the public opinion of the EEA?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u330	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've brought two witnesses in my speeches. The two witnesses are the prime minister, Davíð Oddsson, at that time, and Jón the son of Hannibalsson, the minister of foreign affairs at that time. These two men fully agree on the two most important points in the context that we now discuss. Another factor is that Iceland has the right to use the 102rd par. Actually, the third witness agrees, Carl Baudenbacher. He made that clear in his report. The second factor they agree on is that of Davíð Oddsson and Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson's son. Senator. They agree exactly on this point. It is that if the Icelanders are to see that such cases need to be corrosive, while at risk of any distraction, they are likely to quickly undermine the community's support for our participation in this cooperation. These fine men agree fully on this point and put it separately, as expected. These hearings have led to the result of the above - to compare the men responsible for this case at the time of that agreement and then to confirm it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u331	Mr. President. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator will agree that support for the EEA agreement will be reduced and greatly weakened if such issues as the currently discussed are under way. But there's another side to this about 102. which I would be interested in hearing why. The senator on. It points to human claims that we should not use this article, which describes the treatment of reconciliation and the search for the best outcome for all because we have not used it before. These are arguments that, in my opinion, turn into their resistance if you look at the facts. If we are to accept this support, we are progressively weakening our prospects in the future for using that article. We're saying that since it hasn't been fixed for a long time, it should not be used. What, though, when even more time has passed without a new one? Then the same people will likely feel that they have even stronger reasons for not using it. To keep this article more active, I would think it is very important to make good use of it when it is needed, thus reminding that it is there and not without reason. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with me that just as it would strengthen the EEA agreement that we would use his laws and interests to defend our rights and interests, it would strengthen this particular article to use it, show that it is there for a reason?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u332	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There is an example that if a law code, even an article in a constitution that has been left motion for a long time, the work will have already been done. However, it might be possible for such an accident to make a fire happen in a home. Should the use of the fire extinguisher be avoided because it has never been used before? Is that a similar argument? Here are characters and players in this case. I allow me to mention Professor Dr. Baudenbacher who said, as I observed, as well as, simulated, the only legal sentence in which it is effective when he says that the 102th gr. is valid and can be used by the Icelanders. However, another story is that he has political speculations and cups of how good it is to use it. Although they have an effort to protect themselves and to care for their natural interests, it does not necessarily mean that isolationism or anything like that is being shocked. I allow myself to make corrections and to emphasize what Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson said in his review that access to resources is not being made to the market. This is essential, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u333	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for this speech he gave. It is noteworthy that many heavyweightweightweight players, e.g. members of the political class of the highest. The European Union's third energy package - men with experience - men who were present at energy packages one and two were introduced, men who want to learn from experience, men who want to learn from mistakes. But this isn't all, Mr. President. The important thing is that according to a recent survey, 63% of respondents received this package, 63% of the population. You wonder, " Is it compatible with those who support this energy package that they're not gonna run again in politics, just on their way out? ' Hence, they feel that they do not need to listen to the nation. It's a real challenge for a man to place such emphasis on treading these packages, as he is now uncontaminated and ill-deserved, through the council at record speed instead of listening to men like Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, Davíð Oddsson, Tómas Ingi Olrich, Hjörleifur Guttormsson - I could continue for a long time, men from all categories. They're not political friends, they're all groups of people who warn of this act. But they keep hitting their head with the stone for a long time. [[The president calls.]] But like I say, maybe these people just got bored with politics and they're on their way somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u334	Mr. President. There are many things that are urgent about this discussion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I am very concerned about the neglect and neglect of the matter. How about some examples? There is a search for legal warnings, and we have a man with expertise in police work, being a police officer, and a principal of the police school, who is for his part on the case. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - I'd like Mr. President to maintain order at the meeting. He showed up here in the symposium earlier today and presented a preliminary report on the subject. He had found five hypotheses or claims about where the legal manager was looking. Except, of course. I shot at him that I had set my way into a polypolitan community center, which in the case of people who sometimes called Facebook, and then a nice senator of the Future Party had written with great background and legal knowledge about legal warnings or warnings and could be considered on the subject. The senator's only two or three recommendations on this legal matter. [[The president calls.]] So it gathers, and I assume that the former businessman, the sheriff and the police officer, will discuss this matter more closely and describe how this search would turn out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u335	V.E.G. President. It is vital that you enjoy life, even if you are discussing serious things. But now there's a problem. A senator who knew quite well in the dark wood of the Independence Party - was there for a long time, passing through the dark wood of that party. [[Was.]] Now, this class is 90 years old on Saturday, and I congratulate him on that. And first, the highest. The president is sitting here right now, showing him, as I have pointed out to others in talks today, that it might be expected for members of the Independence Party, on Saturday between the clock. At Valhalla, 11 and 15 are talking to the general company of coffees, and largely more of the general members of the Independence Party are opposed to this pack of energy. I was now hoping, Mr. President, that men would use this Saturday afternoon to listen to the grass roots of the pack and get some practical guidance from it on what to do in this pack of energy. I expect him to be on the convention program on Saturday morning, and it would be good for the members of the Independence Party to listen. They have just been on a bus trip through the country, but they do not seem to have listened to anyone. They are so trapped in their resolve to stuff the energy package through here. That's why I'm going to sneak it to the highest level. President, perhaps we can take advantage of the opportunity for coffee and cake on Saturday. But I wanted to ask. A senator as to what he believes has led to the appearance of the Independence Party's party as being so completely out of shape and out of contact with the general party - has been aglow. A senator's explanation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u336	Mr. President. I'm going to say this here that in my mind it has been one of the mysteries of modern politics in this country how it was said that the Independence Party should address the fact that they should add their name to the Icezave language in the way he did. In fact, not all members of the council were able to support that case, but the party leaders did. The editor of the morning newspaper has written a remarkable fistula dealing with the foreign policy of the Independence Party. He, Styrmir Gunnarsson, expressed his view of his website that this third pack of energy is a very serious mistake on the part of the Independence Party. He reviews one example that is very interesting, and it comes from the 1970s:1971 when it was as if the Independence Party hadn't sensed the times of the day, and it claimed that we should take a different route from where we were going on the weekend. It cost the crew dearly. He landed outside the government after the 1971 election. Now, not only is there a problem, the mystery of the support of Icesave, but the puzzle of supporting the third energy package is totally unnecessary. And it's also very strange why the situation is so intense. In the spring of 2019, maybe in the fall of 2019, this case was claimed previously to appear at the General Assembly, and now, in May 2019, people are struggling to complete it on this beautiful spring day. Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u337	Mr. President. I'd like to briefly explain to you the position of a heavyweight member of the current government who doesn't understand how the government will continue this energy package case as it is today. This is none other than the former senator Guttormsson. He writes recently an article in the Morning newspaper - no man studied the contents of the EEA Convention like Hjörleifur, when he was here at the council. He asks: Is that not enough? He says in an article entitled The State of America, the package will be dressed by Presidential permission: ▪ The 22nd March of that year. Send out a press release by the State Department and the Ministry of propagation with the headline: The State of State agrees to place the third energy package for the Council. This announcement is the most amazing document, both of its statements, and further selection of excerpts with legal references, in which there is not half a story told of their warnings and warnings, especially of the lawyers Friðrik's Friðriksson and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson. It is so far gone in harbing about the ideal of the future government proposal to make the following statement: an energy package on Icelandic terms. It is recorded in Icelandic on the grounds that Iceland is not connected to the EU electricity market. When this claim is compared with the opinion of a panel of lawyers who returned on March 19th. An opinion on the administrative terms related to the government's office to the institutions of the EU/EFTA due to the EU's third energy pack shows just how dishonest the situation is. Instead of publishing the legal opinions of the lawyers that were on the table ministers days before the case was taken care of in the government, their reviews contain a number of warnings and opinions about energy packets for members of the body and the general public. Hjörleifur continues under the aid of a member of his language: ◯Engling past the Constitution to be passed by the president's permission. The Secretary of State, according to the International Parliament, will implement a pack of energy with the awareness that his binding rules are not being carried out unless the Council of the House restores an eco-efficiency cable from Iceland, and at the same time it needs to be changed to see if the rules of the Constitution are met. This will prevent the confirmation of the General Assembly on a pack of three energy, which obviously wars against the Republic's constitution and undisputedly would no later be active than the fixation of a cable. The battle then will be accomplished if not already the constitution has been changed. I must admit, Mr. President, this is now a huge offense. I understand the former senator Hjörleifur Guttormsson. I understand that he does not understand why Iceland's left green means of marketing resources are currently left. A series of Hjörleifur concludes in this article, with the permission of the president: ▪ The matter that the government now intends to force the General Assembly to accept on open terms and against the terms of our constitutions on the control of natural resources, Icelandic fallwaters, its use and protection. This parallels the question of delivering our alien sea resources. It is estimated that national inactivation by privateisation and companies such as HS Energy and Actic Hydroso will now come to the country under the signs of minor inducers, with the permission of the Energy Agency. These people are now laying behind the scenes, on the sidelines of national, national, and national interests, to link Iceland to Britain's energy market and continent. Icelandic nature and the public pay the bill with huge power prices and the rejection of peaceful valleys and pagans that have escaped the root of the fortress until now. □ What are some of the points made by the European Parliament regarding such a future? Yes, what do the general members of the United States say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u338	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech, part of which is a quote to a man who has studied these matters very well. At least I was raised in my company to pay attention when experienced men spoke. I think that's absolutely right. A senator indicated that a former senator, Hjörleifur's Guttormsson, is one of those men who are judgmental and who have considerable knowledge. He's not talking there on some political party note, he's talking for Iceland's interests. It is so important that what has been presented here in the treatment of this case is clear that there is some category of camistic lines in which a decision has been made to drive through without taking a neutral view of all the data, weigh and evaluate, and taking the most careful course to such an important issue. Or can a louder warning be sounded than to compare this matter to handing our sea resources to a foreign authority? [[The president calls.]] Do people really think that we are standing here and try to defend it in a way that we would if we were to do so? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u339	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u340	V.E.G. President. Thank you. To a large extent, I was offered Hjörleifur the son of Guttormsson, who had much of the text. I made this statement because Hjörleifur is the only man who has made that warning. From this same study, i.e. The left movement of a green supply has also come forward and expressed great doubts about accepting the matter, and not just expressing doubts, it has been hard to resist our Jónasson of a pack of three. These are both men fighting against an energy pack of one and two, together with other members, such as the highest. The president of this assembly, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, why. Senator. But now they are all like proselytes, representing these classes, not the party people themselves, rather than the blameless independents. There's a wide difference between the members of the council. I don't understand, Mr. President. Of course, it's supposed to be over-line. And even though we're standing here, the middle-class people, and we're against this case, we're not hitting the Middle Party's drums. We're hitting Iceland's drum. We don't want this energy package running right here because we think it's a country that's causing damage. However, we feel that there should be a political accord here at the council to do what is right in this case, i.e. rejecting the package and sending it into a treatment of reconciliation. It has been observed many times amongst each other's specialist, with each other's political bitch, especially the one who's gone, those who now don't dare, they don't have the courage to use the whole European economy contract, they don't have the courage to do that. [[The president calls.]] And that's very bad, Mr. President. The worst that we're going to do, other than some blunder politicians, is a spineless politician.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u341	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I couldn't agree more with this analysis, that we should send it back to reconciliation. How does that work out for you? Yes, two of our major cognitions in Europe speak in their opinion of how to handle the case in which there are substantial doubts about the possibility that this will pass the constitution. The treatment is specifically indicated in the European Economic Area Convention. The therapy is 111 st. Which is under the third issue resolution. With President's permission, it says it's perfectly clear, and this doesn't have any political uncertainty to make it clear: The European Commission, or EFTA countries, can raise issues regarding the interpretation or application of this contract for the joint EEA committee according to the following guidelines. The joint EEA committee is authorized to resolve the issue. It should be provided with all the information it may need to perform a thorough investigation of the subject, with a view to finding a solution that can be accepted by the individual. For this purpose, the joint EEA committee shall investigate all possibilities to maintain the successful implementation of the contract. Could be clearer. Senator? This is not a word of superiority or resolution but of reconciliation like the one we should be reaching in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u342	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. I'd still like to quote an Eyjólfur Ármannsson and his opening words in a review to the State Department, where he simply says, by permission of a president: The Parliamentary Parliamentary Council is to refuse to submit its proposal and announce it to the joint EEA committee. Such procedures do not threaten participation in the EEA Treaty, fully ending in accordance with its regulations. For Iceland, such fears in the EEA work are dangerous. That's why I say, as I said before, the highest. President: The only thing lacking in this matter by the members of the government is courage. It's ballsy, it's afraid to take the fight for Iceland. V.E.G. The president, now seated in a chair, and his good associates in the Independence Party would not have to wage a major war with the rest of us just to step aside, take the wisest course, and refer this matter to reconciliation. It would not take much conflict at the council to do so, since this case is not supposed to be a class of antiquities. Unfortunately, it has been grouped according to the fact that -- of course, the Europeans cannot wait to get into their arms, we understand, but the rest of the corrupt political groups who have taken a U-turn in the case without sufficiently explaining it, that is so incredible. And that may be what you have so hard to accept, and that may be what you are, what I'm supposed to say, most of the times, that it should happen in that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u343	Mr. President. It would certainly be an accident, so that this council counciling proposal of the foreign minister for the induction of the energy package would be accepted. This will be explained only by the peculiar conditions now existing in the political affairs of the nation. This cannot be explained because the way the matter is growing is because this case is legal indiscretion. This is what I allow to say to the Supreme Court attorney and to the former attorney of my legal society behind me, and to believe that he is very clear and more lawyers in the Independence Party. [[For example, consider the following:]] Keeping it up for days and weeks and saving us from all the dangerous consequences of the energy package, which the government's own legal advisers have reached down into Congress and nation, when they explain that foreign persons are taking control of the nation's organization, the provision and use of energy resources, and that it is most likely to equal the efforts of citizens to the fish markets of the country, the decision for their use. Of course, this is not approved because there is some kind of compromise or investigation or analysis that justifies the agreement. That's because there's a political resolution here. I may be able to back up a few words in later answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u344	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator, this is correct because it is not merely the prerogative, that is, the insecurity of the language. In one word it is said: this case doesn't matter; this package doesn't matter, but it has to be run through with haste, in a hurry. It's as if nothing's more important. We have offered, the Central Party, to set this matter aside at the council and to provide some important and essential matters for Congress so that the council is not destroyed during the last days. They have not been listened to. We are not contradicting this case to cause some mismanagement of the council. We are opposing the matter because we feel that it is neglected, wicked, unconcerned, and even dangerous. Then came one and said, "It's nothing but panic propaganda. ' The same people who say, "If this case is refused, the EEA contract and our involvement in a solution is in danger." Wait, what propaganda is that, Mr. President? What propaganda is that? That's not what it's about. It's about the kind of thing that they're neglected, ill-worked, unconcerned. It simply has to be delayed until autumn, work better, handle the political solidarity of the council, so that all walk the same way, at the same rate, in the same way. Sadly, however, the government groups try to increase the fragmentation of the nation's case, which 62% are opposed and are still to tread down the nation's neck. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u345	In fact, Mr. President, with the three administrations in the light of the prehistoric and litigation process for decades, if everything were taken care of there, none of them would bring this up. The common alliance, formerly known as the left - handed offer, has become separate from its roots. They're just the way they are. The independent party runs after a variety of ideas and ideas during the same time and does not show the need and firmness. You might have a big case about this. But somehow these categories are arranged to fail, which should have been allowed to be relied on in exactly the same way. Of course, it's not hard to understand that the Conspiracy and Reunion, which are equal to groups and are just around here on involvement in the European Union, agree with this energy package unseen, declared it before it was proposed to the Council and before anyone had seen any evidence that they would support this case. How decisions are made or how a policy is developed in Pirata's congregation, which is naturally not for mortal humans to realize. It may be understandable that a gang of resolutions, such as there, landed on that side. But it would be very unfortunate and unfortunate if the case was agreed. The painting mechanism does not support it. So much is certain, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u346	V.E.G. President. How true that is! These are exactly the classes that we should be able to trust through their history, even though we do not agree with them at all. Still, we should be able to trust them to protect Iceland's independence and Icelandic interests, but they fail. Whether they are on the left side of the spectrum or on the right of the spectrum, the leading groups there are not. Like what? A senator named it the forwarding party just as he is. But the other two, it should have been possible to count on them at least to stand with their followers, though not otherwise, that they would listen to their voters. Now, I still say what I've said a few times here: Why didn't the Independence Party just apply honestly to the campaign, saying, "We're going to introduce a pack of three, instead of going against a national meeting, a very recent one that says everything else?" It's a natural betrayal. The same is true of the advance party. There was a central government release that Icelandic sources of energy should not be influenced by foreigners and foreign power. The advance team did not insist on the election policy that it was going to generate a three-fold energy package from the European Union, certainly not, on the contrary. And the left green didn't happen in elections saying, "Hey, we're going to the market of Iceland's energy sources. It wasn't the vote. All these groups go contrary to what they promised, and no doubt it will catch up with them. But there is something else. The important thing is that this will have an enormously bad influence for an Icelandic nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u347	President. Today, Britain's election is scheduled for the European Parliament. These elections are marked by the discussion of Bgreit, the British exit from the European Union. As a result, this event and all the discussion related to it have made a huge appeal to the discussion here on the third energy package. The story of this case, Biffit, as it is called in England, or the United Kingdom exits from the European Union, gives much insight to the problem that nationalities find in dealing with the European Union, while at the same time the problems of so many political parties that seem to have forgotten what they are elected for, seem to have forgotten the connection with voters, and even often and times, the backs, the backwaters. It is interesting to put these two in context to help us understand what is going on at the International Parliament. It has now been three years since the British public decided on this in a national hearing, where more than ever participated in some vote in Britain, that Britain should leave the European Union. That is why there was a valid reason. Many had already taken full advantage of the EU's involvement, its intervention in British internal affairs, and had grown to the point that a foreign agency was primarily concerned with their goals and interests rather than with the interests of each nation. And in view of the greater part of the British, these interests, such as the European Union defined them, were the overall interests of the British community, often at odds with the interests of the British public. A vote was held, and it came to a conclusion. The conclusion was: Britain was to be removed from the European Union. But then began a long story of endless trouble, where the system in the European Union, Brussels, tried every step to get in the way of British voters. But what may have been worse was that British politicians, elected as representatives of their nation, played a role in trying to destroy and hinder the sovereignty of the public in the country. Of course, this has other appeals in Icelandic history, but the appeal is now very clear to me. Here we are discussing matters in which much more of the public not only has doubts but is directly opposed because elected agents pass the case through, agree. But how do these elected representatives react? They are groping either or, as there are so many cases from Britain, trying to mislead the discussion and speak the language of the authority of Brussels rather than of following Icelandic popular opinion. And now we are faced with the fact that men are willing to go so far in these matters here at the Allied Council that they prefer to hide the discussion, prefer it to go on late at night. In fact, the supporters of the matter do not trust to participate in it themselves, but they want to be remembered for the discussion and that the council, members of the board, and their support groups can most easily handle it with as little discussion as possible. But this is a very dangerous method. And I doubt that it will prove to be these categories, those categories that do not consider the democratic wishes of the Icelandic public, much better than it has proved to be the classes of Britain that have overlooked the public agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u348	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So did Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson for his talk, reflect on whether we are on some sort of milestone, considering whether this is what has sometimes been called the formation of a gap between a council and a nation, namely. that the elected representatives, the rift of them, have simply separated themselves, their policy, their political party, and their grass root, the common voter. There are, of course, some ways that the people here are not concerned with this matter, where their will is to enter the European Union with all its advantages and weaknesses. But the common people who follow those political parties have made it their firm belief that we should maintain our independence, that we should be a sovereign nation, and that we should use it to negotiate with other countries, rather than to enforce foreign agencies or institutions. Counts 'em out. A senator says that this diagnosis is nearing reality? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u349	President. I'm sure it's not far off. In fact, I think most Icelanders and most political parties in Iceland have a very high level of sovereignty, which is where I refer to the stories and to their supporters. However, it is a concern how many Icelandic political parties have adapted to what I have called a system, the word e.g. in some way blind to the fact that by paying democratic elected representatives authority to the system, they are at the same time subjugating the sovereignty. What's going on with the sovereignty? What is the most important thing about democracy? That citizens of a certain country can manage their own business. People in general say that it is about each country being given its own authority. But what does that mean? The country's inhabitants are meant to be ruled by themselves. When political groups stop looking at people of their own land and even blindly follow up, not necessarily the inhabitants of other countries, but the institutions of other countries, they are being undermined by the national sovereignty. We should never forget that, as most know, the sovereignty did not come automatically, nor will it survive automatically. We must constantly guard our sovereignty, reminding ourselves of what it is, what it is for us to do, and what results it has yielded to us as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u350	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In this situation, I think that meditation is beneficial when we think about where we are. I had a pleasant conversation with two men earlier today, where political leadership and in general life were discussed, what characterized a good leader, and what made humans lose their leadership on the same basis. We discussed the theory that it was in human nature to go the slightest resistance, such as the English language, at the permission of a president. It involves moving a little like the water, looking for a channel where obstacles are the least. During this conversation, I remembered what is not so far away in the past that Iceland had negotiations that were in the national sense known as Icesave. There, efforts were made to take this very course of resistance and to submit to foreign authority. In that case, however, a leader was found who feared and held a hole and ran against his feet. So that's why Iceland won this case. [[The president calls.]] One of the leaders standing there was the president of Iceland at the time who used a refusal to sign laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u351	President. Yes, I think it's an excellent theory, that there's a strong tendency to do the most simple way, and not just that, but the way that may seem the simplest that day. I'd like to add a theory why. At the same time, a senator will answer his questions, saying that part of the problem may be that a person does not look at the total meeting and that humans do not look to the long - term outcome. If they did, in some cases at least they might feel that the best way to start with, for a short time, is to seem more difficult. But if you just look at what is easier to do that day, the danger is that you go to the wrong direction. In the context of the case we're discussing here, it is enough to form when politicians, even ministers, go to interview and declare that they find it easier to declare that day, even if it violates what they are really working on, e.g. that they have serious doubts about this third energy package and that they have not been able to convince the nation about its induction, but they do not mean anything by it, and they create a much larger problem over time, and it becomes evident that their statements were totally meaningless.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u352	Mr. President. I have spent several talks in reviewing Directive 72/2009 and in an effort to explain these articles in terms of national and national rights, as well as the European Economic Convention. In a review of the State Department related this council resolution to the President's permission, this review is made of the interest groups of our Orcs: The Agency must work on cross-border partnerships against the aim of the Council to make a cross-border decision. These arguments, as presented here in the previous discussion, were also rejected by members of the Parliament's decree on the grounds that it could not be found anywhere in this introduction. I have reviewed this point in a few steps, and so pleasantly, the scribes Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðriksson Furriksson Hirst have reached the same conclusion by the legal method, and it is likely that the method they have used has been investigating the actual source. By permission of the president, on page 18. 23 In view of these fine scholars, and this is Regulation 713/2009, which is part of the data that comes with a pack of three energy, allowing the president: The EES/EFTA countries are formally signed by ACER authority according to the Regulation, including is a formal power to make legal binding decisions on the basis of cross-border structures. The Council has placed in the hands of ESAs. ACER still has a lot to say about the decisions that ESAs take on the basis of the Regulation. Therefore, the ESA's decisions should be made based on a drag-as- ACER-i.e. ACER, an institution under the European Community, writes letters and hands of ESA, an EFTA surveillance agency of its own initiative or at the request of the ESA. If a request for a review of the decision be made, the ESA request [ACER] to [ACER], and the ACER should consider writing new words for ESAs, which would provide a comparable basis for a new ESA decision. ▪ Intrigued with the conclusion and decision of the day, the decisions are quite practical. However, if ESAs are not at peace with these measures, it is not an obligation to reevaluate that decision. This is the basis for the failure of the form to hear it under the so - called two - foundation system because one support is the substitution of the other, the support of the European Union. ▪...will ACER have the intention of writing new draughts for ESAs so comparable to the basis for an ESA's new decision? - So this can be sent back to the ACER and asked for some new things, but the ACER needs only to consider, there's no separation. This is an enormously important point. I was going to go further in this speech, the highest. Mr. President, but I'm just going to have to keep going and wish that I be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u353	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator only set me on fire when he mentioned the interaction of ACER and ESA, because this is a point I have been considering and is absolutely fundamental in all of this. But what I would like to add and ask. A member of the Parliament, because he has proved to be an outstanding analyst and has studied these regulations in the following: Has trouble. A senator examines what happens when disagreements arise about ACER's decisions? What ruling authority is there? You see, it's something important. It's ACER himself. They have their own decision - making committee, their own Supreme Court, to make final decisions about decisions made by the Agency itself. Then there's no why. A senator agreed that exactly what that institution is like, that although it is expressed in a way that sent out a set of specifics that humans are supposed to follow, is it really sending out orders, orders? And if you don't follow these instructions, only the Agency itself is or shown, first in one form and then the other employees of the Agency, possibly at the second floor of the officehouse of this institution, but still employees of the same organisation. Is this not yet another example of how irresistibly this entire European system has become? But instead of considering the democratic and even traditional rules of the legal state, they are replaced by the goals, major goals defined by the European Union itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u354	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, that's what I was going to keep on leading out, the peculiar combination of ESA and ACER. The fine scholars I mentioned earlier who have been mentioned in the discussion continue in their analysis and draw special attention to the interaction I used to trace earlier, i.e. That the ACER will settle, provide ESAs and ESAs. If ESAs do not accept the sign, she can ask for another plan, but it is only something that ACER needs to consider. It is not necessary to do anything more with it. But special attention should be given to the fact that this treatment is never contrary. It only works one way, i.e. ESA does not make decisions that are fundamental to ACER. Therefore, the effect of ACER is far greater than that of ESAs in this respect, i.e. There's no equilibrium in the contract. There is no equal between the EEA and the European Union. It's getting a little serious. However, it is something that is fully compatible with the European Community's policy, to extend the boundaries of the Community, establish a holistic system, establish an integration in the law, and to have as much harmony in all its internal functions as possible. However, this has nothing to do with independent nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u355	President. Hv. A senator has well described how this institution, ACER, really has the power that ESAs may have in the case of Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein. However, I would go further and say that this is at best, so that the ACER would have power in this country in the same way as in other European countries, but at worst, this arrangement would be designed to increase the monitoring and pressure of the Icelandic government. What I mean by it, and now I ask why. A senator whether he thinks I'm mistaken in this regard is that the ESA's role in playing together, like the dog. A senator was a good judge, mainly of receiving drags or orders from ACER; however, the ESA can give a tip to ACER. However, knowing how ESA operates and what role the institution should you expect them to point out primarily to highlight something that was missed by that institution regarding the lack of European regulations. In other words, this would really be an extra check in Iceland. The improvement of the intermediate role of ESAs and of the Agency's potential for sending accounts primarily includes further monitoring of foreign institutions by the European Union's implementation in accordance with the EU's objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u356	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think that's what we're talking about. I don't think there's anything wrong with a senator. I think it's exactly the way it's grown. To be honest, I find it a little difficult to understand how people can come to a different conclusion because, as I have repeatedly come on here, to the purpose of the European Community, its objective, and its policy is completely clear. The Alliance is very careful that both regulations and laws are completely clear. They also keep this open, though not all of this happening, so they don't put it where it doesn't apply to wild rules that can't change, but they always give a clue that there is something more in the water. Now the fourth and fifth energy package has been given a clue. There is hope, and then we should introduce ourselves, just as we should have learned more about this third energy package and what it contains. So it is quite clear that the ACER will in the future will be the institution within the European Community that controls these matters. I went into a press interview with the European Energy Commissioner, who declares that it is time to make counterweight changes that there is a unanimous agreement to change the law on taxes and energy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u357	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Þóðdirsson for his speech. I've had the impression that the power of the energy market in those areas that hear under the Agency's surveillance is part of, what to say, the abuses that Iceland has in doubt about the source of the energy package feel on the whole case. First, whenever it becomes, all the questions that turn to output and how the power field of ACER will actually work after the songing of a cable, whenever it becomes, have been partially answered by a crew, so I'll allow myself to use a semi-vital description of this. I want to hear what it's all about. Senator. Does he share in my opinion that this feeling for the vast and all-employer chose ACER in terms of energy markets is perhaps part of the country's opinion that much of the population is opposed by the use of this energy package? How does that look? paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u358	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Threei Ólason for the inquiry. She is in complete agreement with the subject I was starting with in my talk. I think the public is very well aware of Iceland's independence on the other hand and not being an ideal nation. It's not so long since we had this birthday linked, good if it wasn't just last summer. The opinion that I made in my speech says yes, in part.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The Agency will be independent of national minister authority, have wide areas of work and high authority, make decisions from ACER and EU Commission via ESA. In this text, what is really contained in the induction and the regulations that follow it in human languages. That is why people may feel that this is true, that they do not really know what the source is saying, and that is why the answers are the way they have been. People just think it's incredible. But most people who have studied this and those who are members of these stakeholders, our Energy, are people who are very interested in and who have studied it well. It has not only been introduced to men who are law educated but also to men who are engineers who have worked in the energy sector for a long time and understand what this means because they have seen these things happen in the European Union. That's why people are afraid of this, it's bigger than a lot of people would think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u359	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the answer. It has been the case during the times we've been here in the Generals to discuss the energy packets that one question has consistently called out the answers to something deeper in the whole case and that, after adjusting a sea cable, sheds even more light on what I, as in this case, had feelings and concerns. This is reflected in this summary, where the CHMP is placed in human language, as it were. It's a feeling when you're at it. paritaprevir The son of Jón Þór Þorvaldsson that it is en route in the energy package and in the Regulation, especially if we look at 713 and 714, that the text of the original data is relatively clear about authority, but to some extent put in place that people at first don't have much authority or might rightly say a great deal of the authority of the Agency on the basis of the Regulation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u360	Mr. President. Yes, I think it's safe to say it is. After induction in countries that fully implement the Agency does not agree with the implementation of its independent and sovereign state. This institution has been referred to as a national rule, but in the case of Iceland, it's the Power Institute. It will be completely independent and separate from the Commission, i.e. It does not take orders from a minister or any other government from Iceland, although it is funded by that authority. Sources of authority include in the process of passing fines on parties in the energy sector. That power is usually and in most cases at the hands of courts, i.e. ... todiscriminate guilt or innocence, and I'm not talking about punishment. So I think that the fears and feelings that people have for being beyond this framework and that the sources are not well understood, and that they are not just based on evidence, but were highly supported by the detailed opinions of the various scholars, and especially by two scholars who are the advisers of the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u361	A respectable president. I'm going to continue with what I left this morning and try to paint a picture of how the state of energy markets will come to the end of the energy package and then discuss what that situation will be after the sea cable has been laid. I think many would agree that all too little energy, so to speak, very little, actually went on to try to draw up visual images of how energy markets will develop from the shape of an ocean cable. It has little to do with the fact that this so - called third energy package has been passed through by the Icelandic nation on the basis of its putting on a very significant warning, which may vary in length, as it is clear. The person I'd like to mention is the warning that the Allied has arrived at the decision to fix a cable. I'm going to go to my next talk to two articles that the former Ministers of the Independence Party wrote in the Morning newspaper a few months ago. An article written by Sturla Böðvarsson, former secretary of transportation and the president of the Generals, and an article written by Tómas Ingi Olrich, former minister of education on behalf of the Independence Party. It has little to do with the time when a cable will be laid if, at the end of such cables, the power markets are lost. It's the scene that the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs have completely neglected to draw up. In Iceland, so to speak, it is quite clear that the situation at home will be changed in all the basic aspects of energy market management. Well, it's just that although people are very happy to get some money on the administrative problems, they are pushed forward to the time when Iceland will be linked by a cable. And that is the scene I at least experience that the public demands to see what it looks like. The answers of the manufacturers are more and less so that there is no need to worry about this. It's not a test until a cable is laid. But we are required only to have a clear view of how energy markets and their government will develop after Iceland is connected with a sea cable. It is not advisable to sit here in the hall - even if it is, as usual, just members of the Central Party who are sitting in the hall now outside the highest level. The president and they are advised to accept this pack of energy without any attempting to draw up the scenarios, work, analysis necessary for making such decisions, so that people can have some calmness in mind and heart over the delinquency of energy market authority and governance, so that people can accept it. In fact, I think a very large proportion of the nation did not accept any expeditation of these things for an international foreign agency. In the last survey asked about this, I think I have concluded that over 80% of the population are opposed. Now the government invites us to make a decision regarding the induction without the drawing up of these staged images. Of course, that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u362	President. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason wrote about the lack of the impact of a sea cable, pointing to this so - called advance, which may seem to be some kind of attempt to mislead the discussion of the real effect of this induction and perhaps to postpone the problem. However, people have wondered if the energy package input could contribute to the fixation of the cable and that such, for example, a person will be asked to do so. ACER contributes to removing barriers to such sea cables. However, it might also be wondered if such intervention would be necessary, or if the system involved in the fixation of a cable is not merely working on it and will achieve its own way in one way or another if no one asks. In fact, land induction has made this project seemingly, at the top of the list of priorities, and in many places it is being done in preparation for such projects. So, in view of experience, I don't think so, then. A senator, that when the system has bitten something and there has been a spread across the regime, had an accepted view that this is true, then only our experience in politics shows that the system will be better, it will get its way, it will achieve its own connection, even though some politicians may have doubts about time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u363	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson answered. That's it. That's it. There are so many areas of experience. I'm gonna take one example from the real world, where we hear about it from time to time for planes to fly over the General Building. In fact, Reykjavíkurburg's administrative system was in some way in the airfield of influenza ever since, and it could be said that the military was marching, on chapters quietly but always securely, toward its goal of removing the airfield from the Hydromur. Then it was of no importance that individual politicians wanted to defend the field and secure its presence in the present place and the interests of the location. The marching system continued, and there were no politicians left to fight. This, of course, may be the case with the energy market. It is only necessary to visit the country's homepage, where the position of the company lies. There are countless other pages that honestly expound and open the way for the purpose of a particular project to be done. That's why I think it's necessary to draw up some realistic picture for us here on how things are going to be done after a cable has been laid. It is not unreasonable to do to the government that, after a case in which such a rich requirement is said soon thereafter, people know what a vision is after.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u364	President. It's not an unfair requirement, is it? Senator. I would take strong words and say that it is really absurd that we should allow this matter to go through without a man trying to distinguish the obvious future effect, things continue to develop as far as we're going. They've been working on the sea cables, including... to the state of the Landing Corporation. Hv. A senator mentioned the airport, which is a very good example of this tendency of the system to continue on in the same direction, no matter what. This is what happens, e.g. in the case of pressing up to the airport gradually, no matter what comes out or what happens. Keeps pushing him to push him away. But there is no need to look far for a similar example. The land hospital. Although it has long been discovered, and it seems most people would agree that it is unwise to proceed with the Ring Way, and that it is far more reasonable in every way to build a new national hospital in a new place, the system just keeps going on its course without offering evidence for that fact. And when we put it in the context of our system's interest in the fixing of sea cables, we can ask ourselves, " What would the discussion be like at the council when the senators tried to resist? ' Would it take a long time for some members of the council to explain that such men were isolationists, living in the past, having a political argument, and something like that? I'm a little afraid, Mr. President, that if we agree to this third energy package, we will only speed up the system's success in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u365	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. It is true that the single - course closures are far more extensive than the airport situation I took earlier. It is indeed looking at what took place on the construction of the ring - island island, where multitudes of people think every day materially: My God is good! What have we done? What kind of confusion was this in us trying to pin this huge project on this traffic island at the Ring Road and everything that goes with it? But these matters, the departure of the Watermelon airport, the construction of Landhouses on Ring Road, and the transpiration of sea cables, are all of the same issues in terms of how the system works. It's Marchy, often silent, but always in the same direction. You can make a lot of money in preparation for these projects. In the case of the airport it is largely in Reykjavíkurburg, in the case of the Land Hospital it is expected from the drawers of the Department of Economic Affairs and Health Ministry, in the case of a cable, to come in large extent, expected from the drawers of Landing and then from foreign economists. When it comes to the mobilization, you will need tremendous power, concentration, and determination. I think this tour has long begun and the military has long since begun in connection with the cable. That is why - and, of course, you might speak strongly - you may not have drawn up a scene in which you can see what you can do, using the third energy package and using a cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u366	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this reflection. Since the 2013 issue of politics, he has been interested in how individual Kingdom Halls play loose, as it were. So much is it certain that during those years, in 2013,2016, I became aware of the firm will that Landing has for this site to be laid. It even came. The meeting is conducted with the director of the company. At this time, as late as it is, a petition was made at the General Assembly for the expansive costs of land activation by a sea cable in the past ten years. When replying to that request, probably not during this discussion, the determination to perform this request is seen. Then you can ask yourself: " Why did this assignment take place? Who asked for it? It was named, I remember, in its own time, 20136/2016, discussing the preparation of a cable, and then some report came out, and you thought it would be read and then stored. But there's some independent will that you don't exactly know who. That brings to mind who is to shape a future course. If this is the case, is it politicians who eventually bear responsibility by dropping out of Congress? Or is it government officials who spend all their time in hiding, moving nowhere, no matter what happens? I'd like to have some. To meet me, a senator reviews the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u367	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, if all is normal, it is the political thing to form a policy. But there's been a lot of criticism, and I don't think there's any leaning if I say that the head of the Middle Party, well. Davíð The Gunnlaugsson over the government system, or the aggression to power, may well be to say, in terms of policy. It's part of the fact that politicians have to stand up and dare to rule again. It's been missing a lot for the past few years. That's what I'm talking about. A senator entered upon that expense, and I hope that his inquiry about the expense that had fallen into the land-resurrection for the past ten years in preparation for a sea cable, then came to my mind, and I hope that I am not misinjuring, when the former president of the Land-resurrection, Jóhannes Nordal, sat down on a sacred stone if he was asked in the interview of the akrautat when he stopped, to remind me of what he was ever going to use for the next year or age - I cannot remember the exact word. Then he answered, that I may remember, I will lay down cable. I liked that word. Perhaps this was a joke to him, but it seemed to me that from then on and before, those speculations had been in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u368	Mr. President. Only to other psalms, though related. It has been observed repeatedly in this room and elsewhere that various council members claim to have been very reluctant to accept the proposal for the third energy package. Some have been standing in a chair and reviewing that this was so growing, but they have then pointed out that they changed their mind, that they changed their minds, because some truths they take were presented to them, and that show them that they are all right. I've been wondering what is the point that has enabled men to change their mind and jump on this bus. Then there are the first ones to think about so - called warnings. In this discussion of the last popular, and in the past, I feel somehow that these warnings have been unveiled, and people in our group are still trying to figure out how these models are put up, whether or not they are likely to pass, etc. I wonder: Could it be that these senators, some of whom have said that they were originally opposed, were simply deceived into following this issue by some form of action made by someone who was waved in front of them? That they took the bait, so to speak, and were deceived by those who presented it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u369	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. It is now with a little shame that I recall the words of the former chairman of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, who called them a journey of doubtful deception to the members of the Independence Party. Since I know that the former chairman of the Independence Party now supports the political party blessing, I have to assume that to some extent he is there trying to tease his old associates. But all the fun comes with a few serious things. The more these alleged warnings are examined, both those found in hand racing last Monday and the person referred to by the State Ministry of State, are neither birds nor fish. As you look at how the North People meant the third energy package has been hung by the European Union, where there has not been no cough or staring for a total of 14 months and it seems that they went directly to the crevice in Brussels, I don't have much faith in any of these warnings. Then there's a specific point how one can hustle the thing about the conversion of electrical law that separates the Alliedis's approval for the fixation of a cable at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u370	Mr. President. I was referred to an article that was posted on the blog of a former senator named Ögmund, Ögmundur of Jónasson. It's an internal article entitled so much as the French consumer protection and a virtual competition - a energy package of three and a half. The person who writes this article, which I don't know how to say, is very well considered in my opinion and says, in the beginning of his case, by permission of the president: Some members of the Parliament who support the third energy package feel that it contains a high level of consumer protection and a ◯ competition that will benefit consumers. When it comes to the protection of our consumers and the competition, we need to start at the beginning. Who is she? The answer lies in examining basic markets, market size, market efficiency, markets, and consumer behavior. Iceland is off-limits when electricity and donated natural resources are able to produce relatively eco-friendly energy (at least from coal, oil, and nuclear power) for the nation. This, along with the official possession of activations and distribution systems, has ensured the long - term benefits of Icelandic consumers'electricity prices. Then, according to one writer, it is obvious that when considering the development of energy prices in Europe, the reduction in electricity prices in Iceland, which is ◯omvent, is not to be expected in accordance with what two members of the Independence Party were doing. Says the author: ▪ On the contrary. Electric prices will, of course, increase, in accordance with European prices. All talk about other matters is just a lie in which the people are once again lied. Shameful conduct by public representatives involved. Then he makes a comparison, saying: It's said there's 0.1457 euros in Iceland. However, the average value in the European Union is 0.0213 euro and 0.242 euros in the euro. As a result, the European Union (mean) has about 45% higher than Iceland So this is the reality. As the writer himself says, with the permission of a president: ▪ This is the consumer protection to which supporters of the third energy package want to deliver to their people! Of course, the agreement will all be appropriate. Or do you ever think that someone will reduce his mile hour in Europe, in line with an electrical price in Iceland? - A writer specifically points to Denmark in this example. This fine man then referred to us as members of the Central Party, for whom I thank him. He said that it is good for members of Congress to be moved to discuss the matter. But then, by permission of the president, he says: ▪ But it shows unscrupulous pride and lack of relationship with the nation that the panel supporters at the council do not consider themselves obligated to participate in that discussion but rather bring their propaganda into newspaper articles and conduct. That doesn't do them any good. I didn't necessarily take this article with me because it would be a good way for us middle-class members, but because it assures us of the state we've found in it the last popular popular popular voter, the average citizen in Iceland, is observing much more of the discussion we've had than you thought. And why is that? This is because these people may be similar in their hearts to those of us here. These people don't care what happens to Icelandic resources. Of course, no matter how much energy costs. Of course, it does not matter how the evolution process will develop into the future, for our children and grandchildren. So I agree with this fine man where he says, by permission of a president: A member of Congress should never feel too good to discuss a matter of utmost importance and answer to questions asked to him. That is exactly what we have been asking for in this discussion and for quite a while. We've been asking for an interview with the sponsors of the energy package to find out what it is that has passed us, is so dramatic and amazingly good that we have to film it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u371	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are a lot of people outside this council hall who show a lot more interest in the discussion than they do who are obliged to be here during a council meeting, if I recall correctly. But people must, as it were, have to have a conscience if they care for what they volunteered to do. Regarding the electrical prices and the quote given in the speech of the otter. The senator, who testified that, if I remember correctly, the source of this article said that electrical prices would not decrease, as has been claimed to be the full course of the follow-up talks, but will, of course, rise. On what, then, would a writer base his conclusion? Could be, what. A senator, for him to build on the 36th number of introductions No. 72/2009, which reads, with permission of the President: The National Competent Authority shall be able to specify, or accept, the registration or methodology responsible for the calculation of registrations, based on the proposal of the transport or distribution manager, or on the basis of a recommendation made by these directors and users of the system. When these tasks are carried out, national monitoring authorities shall ensure that transport and distribution records are without discrimination and costs and should take into account long-term noise costs to a network saved by diffuse electricity production and demand management. [[The president calls.]] It's about the EU market, about which it is. 50 percent higher than we know in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u372	Mr. President. It is not enough that this fine man put this into the article but also has a chart showing the position between different European countries that supports it. It is the official evidence that he has found and inserted in the article. But he also says, and I tend to agree with him, in the second chapter of the article, "Protestant competition, " that it has always been in Iceland that competition is quickly turned into a few contests. He mentions some examples that are obvious to us all, food, gasoline, oil, etc., insurance, banks, transportation. And he asks, "What happens when a virtual competition gets there?" 1st The price for the ministry goes up because of its well - being. That's right. 2. Service is getting worse, often to a great degree. This is what the reasonable person fears would be if a third EU energy package is created here. He fears that the so - called competition in the energy sector - and we have heard about this in this discussion that 350 homes of 140,000 homes in the country changed supplies in 2017. This shows that the consumer protection and competitiveness announced in this energy package are limited. It is wrong and evil in itself to deceive people or to try to deceive them by waving them in their faces, such as increasing competition and self - worth, when we see in front of us that none of them will come true. [[The president calls.]] It's all reverse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u373	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Show-offs, that's a good word. You see, there will be no real competition at this market. Instead, there will be a price that will be the same for everyone. That's the goal, not to be discriminated against. But what is the result? We in Iceland own the resource, we own the continuum transfunctioners, we own the distribution system, so we can offer the customer, ourselves, the price of electrical energy that is normal for the cost and that we own the resources ourselves. But in the 1st, page 37r. these same directives, such as to show that the claims of a letterwriters are not uninvestigated, says the duties and authority of a government official, by permission of the president: To determine or accept, in accordance with transparent criteria, registrations for transport and distribution or methodologies. This is the transport and distribution currency to which the prices of the European Community are due. I think you're right about what you're talking about. A senator there is a man who writes knowledge and has studied the matter. [[The president calls.]] Do you think the opinion they have is a source support?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u374	Mr. President. For myself, this familiar theme is set up by a writer when he speaks of international competition, such as the grocery market, insurance market, fuel market, and so forth. The question is, do we need one more? I'm not going to talk about when we get right, when we get the right terms that happen somewhere else and we get put under the same light -- actually it's not funny - and those who live in the European Union. I think it's a lot more dramatic than any human would ever realize. There are many reasons to believe that this will happen. We've talked about it in this discussion that not all of the study permits for microintensities have been published by the Power Institute. It is not of any intention that a person will invest in dozens or even a hundred minor activations. It is not by chance that investors, both domestic and foreign, especially foreign, have expressed the will and interest in building windmills. It's not a coincidence. It is not by chance that all these events are happening at the same time. The government is working on bringing in this energy package with the help of men I respect and want to be in the cold arms of the European Union, above all, I understand that. But other political groups that have so far spoken a completely different matter are now making up for this, contrary to their agreements, in the contrary to their promises before elections. This is to be offered - natural in the middle of an elected period - in hopes that the voters will have forgotten before the next election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u375	President. Thank you. A senator for bringing my attention to this good article, which I truly intend to read as a whole. But there were two main factors involved in the short talk of a dog. Senator. On the one hand, it is the absence of all those who support the introduction of this case. Then I wondered, " When did people disappear? ' Is it not my memory or was it not at the time that the warnings did not exist? First, legwork and fatness arose, and people went everywhere looking for the warning signs. When they realized that they either didn't exist or at best had a bit of doubt, it seems that their strength and strength were weakened. Congress officials no longer trusted them to support this matter, which they seem to intend to vote for. But the other was about consumers' business. That others were born, I think it's safe to say that there's a problem. A senator is our greatest consumer mistress here at the council. He has been extremely active in the fight for consumer protection and the better interests of consumers. Could that be the explanation for saying something like that is a matter of consumer protection - because I notice it. A senator has dug into this, what would the effect really be - is that it is simply imported propaganda translated according to the propaganda established in the European Union, without its locality?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u376	Mr. President. I guess you're absolutely right about what you're doing. Senator. True, I was far from having a good time when I first received a smile. At the last week, i.e. the first part of it, but the discussion itself, who was expressing himself, was a little upon itself. I think this might be a combination of two: When the defenses submerged or disappeared, or could not be found, the authorities, who had agreed with this case, that the case was not as solidly built as they thought. They may have thought that they were deceived, and it may be that they simply did not trust in defending this evil cause in which they had suddenly become participants. In contrast, that's how it is, like cot. A senator knows that when you're convinced that what you're fighting for is right, when all the basic evidence and all the evidence suggests that you're right or you're fighting for the right cause, you don't think you're going to stand here for hours trying to get others on your side and to try to get others to see you, if I can put it that way, because there are so many, and then I'm talking about experts, not our politicians, who have come to point out the right thing to do about it. We may already have hammered it, but for totally deaf ears that are very bad. As for consumer protection, I guess I'll have to answer that in the second place, I'm beginning to think that I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u377	Mr. President. Actually, I'm good at that. A senator would not have time to answer the question about consumer protection because I had not had the time to complete that question. As a result, I have the opportunity to complete my question and question. A senator to answer that question. What I was beginning to learn was that these statements - empty as well as rough. A senator has helped us to see and write - that the third energy package includes consumer protection as a result of accepting the foreign propaganda, simply translating it, and repeating it without having an idea of what is behind it. But the addition to the question that was missing to me: If this is the case, as it seems obvious to me, what does that tell us about the induction itself? Does it not tell us that people who do not even have the ability to determine whether propaganda is at the head of them are not studying what they are, what they are? The regulations have not been covered, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson has done well - and has been explaining this to us and the people here in a few talks. The people who mean foreign propaganda without even trying to find out that he has hardly been fully investigated by himself, but we can see from every consideration of this fact that it has been in an image of half the greater part and without reference to the underlying facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u378	President. You're absolutely right. I'd like to add it as well. A senator says, in Icelandic business life, there are many false propaganda champions. I mention, for example. The collective organization that is now more fine and that has just taken 3 billion from a government fund, and no one knows what it went for, whether it went to lower prices or to do something else. The more important thing, Mr. President, is that I saw an interview with a lawyer who had won a triumphal campaign against the State of Justice and had fought out the 3 billion people, and he said, "Hey, we're just getting started. Clearly, there is to be more money to be paid to the State by these parties. They are in every position to receive propaganda from somewhere and to carry it on a table as holy truth, exactly as they have done some of the past few years. I could quite believe that if it was a matter of Congress, e.g. The import of raw non - frozen meat, which we could review afterwards as to what in common with this matter, will be scheduled sometime before the end of the council, would no doubt be possible to review how propaganda has been dismissed in this regard. There is no need for anyone in Iceland to be able to promote various things, including trying to sell us that taking in the Icelandic rights of the EU's third energy package will reduce energy prices to households and companies. It's natural in contrast, it's going to be huge, as it has been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u379	Mr. President. I had planned to start my discussion on the economic consequences of accepting the third energy package, especially for the country. But I'm afraid I'll just have to put it off because I was shocked to hear the reason. Sæmundsson The amount of money paid in the government's payments, their names, the company of professional drivers, or entire sales, is reported to be 3 billion. This, Mr. President, is, of course, very striking in the context of the discussion on the third energy package for various reasons. First, naturally, a very large number are marked with the language on import of raw non-fried meat and non-efficient foods and the energy package. It may be noted that in this case the Icelanders considered themselves to have a clear warning about this import and that this field, agriculture, and sea level were not even heard under the EEA Convention. It didn't happen much. The European Union was working on its main objectives, and even in this case in terms of EU's indiscriminate interests, it was overlooked in Iceland's warnings and the fact that this was not even to be heard under the EEA Convention. Then the energy package. What does this tell us about the energy package and the way it is introduced and this imaginary warning? When it comes to such big stakes in the European Union, a matter I think it is safe to say that one of the two main priorities of the European Union along with the financial system, the financial issues and the warnings set by Iceland are some kind of one-sided declaration of will in writing - we can only imagine whether the European Union will not act. The reason for me to review this, as a result of the striking information as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sæmundsson told us about earlier, it is just as expected guilty in the third energy package. It is assumed that an obligatory amount of energy companies can be fined if they do not follow the EU or ACER or this combination of these total, if they prevent the development from becoming the one that the EU wants to see. When a government fund feels it is necessary to pay fines or damages or what people want to call it $3 billion. in a relatively short period of time for food, for meat and cheese produced by Icelanders and should not even be heard under this contract, if it does not submit to the needs of the European Union and importers, or the collectives call for such damages, what could the amount be in the energy business? Has a what? A senator could imagine or try to plan any damage if it was used as a means of passing guilty in line with the third energy package when some were trying to resist and do what they thought was in harmony with Icelandic interests, while the European Union thought they would work against or be a barrier to their goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u380	Mr. President. In itself, everything goes to the same well in this matter. I think we have somehow calculated in the process that these fines, if I remember correctly, will be the ones that, for example, are the ones that, if you know what I mean. As a matter of fact, during the years that followed, land activation had to face a guilt load that would be billions, the next thing we know. People have been moaning here in Iceland - welcome to the hall, huh? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé - and are being asked to believe that the Contestance Commission is setting up a number of hundreds of millions of administrative fines. They're cut off one thing in this comparison. Hence, no matter whether we care about it or not, we are concerned that they will be brought to natural ruin. Is it true that I can use the word for it? in this sector because we have an enterprise that has about 70% market share, however, 20% and 10%, and all of this is more or less owned by public parties except these 10%, owned by a number of dierent institutions. If men are convicted or found guilty of a commercial error, it must end up with the requirement that land induction be replaced and, therefore, be denied, these fines are imminent. It makes you really nervous. [[The president calls.]] Or how does the senator feel about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u381	Mr. President. Yes, this is certainly disturbing, but not only because of the sums but also because of the use of such coins as a power tool, as a government minister, we say we must agree on billing the unbridled meat and making food waste because of the finesse, i.e. to avoid further fines. You will now feel that the same thing would be expected when such a power tool was being used, which, of course, would be even more powerful in the case of energy in view of the amount of money under it, we senators would get to hear it from the government that, yes, they might not think it fair, this would not be in harmony with the warnings that the government would have understood at the time. But this would just be the result. And we could not continue paying tickets, we would have to save the money of land activation, or the state, and hence let us have to attack the changes these parties were moving on. This is not just a matter of the financial damage that could be caused by a company such as Land induction, even if the fines in that case might run into a great deal of government funds. However, this is not only a matter of financial damage to these enterprises but also of the power that is involved in the ability to commit guilt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u382	Mr. President. There's one more thing in this case that really disturbs, that in exactly the same way that experts distinguish the constitution of the case we're dealing with here, experts are also picking up how far ACER can get in Iceland. They say, "Well, it's just like Power Institute and something like that, and it's okay. They take this big thing and say, "Well, it's just like this. And they say, There are now warnings here--that do not exist. It's just Power Institute. No, it's an independent institution that doesn't respond to anyone except the European Union. So there is a difference between how this is going to work out. This has not been clear, no more than the reserves that have now become an antagonized, and were always, are now dried up in the smoke. No one will come and explain to us, of the people who follow this case, how it's all right. There is no answer. That's exactly what happens. How does this institution, this international organization, affect us? No one's coming to explain it, not anyone. When it's not done, when there's nothing clear out when they come here and say, "Hey, it's just wrong, it's not like this, it's gay. Nobody's coming, nobody's coming, nobody's going to explain. The lack of either the ability or the worse is a source of inconvenience and anxiety, not a concern for what is naturally worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u383	President. If the supporters of the case are not confident to explain this. I guess I'll just be there and try to do it instead. Indeed, the scene he mentioned regarding the Power Institute is a very vivid example of how people deliberately mislead the discussion or unintentionally, claiming that something is completely different from what it really is. Despite this, i.e. In the case of the Power Agency, there is a bill on the program even a meeting day where the nature of the Energy Agency is expected to be altered, that will be taken from the authority of democratic elected representatives, and gained some kind of independence. Except, when these changes are put in context to the regulations as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson has been tracking down here, and then you see that this is not done to make Power Institute independent. This is in order to become independent from the Icelandic government and to accept directions, let's call it a courtesy, from the ACER, for which it receives the role that is well defined in the European Orders will be a so-called national rule. There is one in each country that can really be viewed as a branch office of ACER in the big context. Then you come and say, "Don't worry, don't worry. It's just an independent agency, the Icelandic Power Institute, that will monitor the course, but dig no deeper than that they don't look at why they're changing. [[The president calls.]] But it is to accept direction from outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u384	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We've spent as much time explaining as we can how the models cannot keep. At least it seems to be early light, and the person standing here has given an opportunity for those who follow this induction to come here and reason with me and retrace me with what I've said here and have tried to back me up as far as I can. But the sad fact is that the challenge is not taken, and there has been no material compromise and no material evidence in this case that supports the way selected and has been warned of our most skilled scholars on the legal basis of uncertainty. An honest attempt is not made to back up why that route has gone. Isn't it amazing? Don't you think there's something wrong with inviting the public, and even if it wasn't just a Senate home, that you don't support your case as important as a pack of three, and that's about the use and provision of Iceland's energy resource, the fallwaters, the electricity, that's all of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u385	Mr. President. Of course, it is unannounced that in such a case one should not rely on him to come and answer reasons. But after listening to talks, what could be said? paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, I'm not sure it's a wonder, for that is the case. A senator has well reasoned on this, simply by referring to the regulations himself and drawing from the conclusions, that I am not surprised that people are afraid to answer his challenge and come here and test as he invited men to try out, to verify that he is being wrong. I'm having a very hard time seeing men could do it over their heads. They find it better to hide here in some side rooms or, as in most cases, to be somewhere else, on a platform in their home like senators even advertised on community media because they fear they would do nothing particularly well by having to answer reasons. Senator. But then I would pray that, instead, they would come and give us an explanation other than they have given us why this should be accepted in spite of the facts. A senator has introduced, and it seems that he does not trust to refute. But the problem is, they probably don't have those reasons either. I'm beginning to fear that the administrative point here and their cohesors don't know properly why they want to introduce this third pack of energy, they've just decided to do it, to hold a council meeting, now everyone has to vote this way and so we're sitting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u386	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, the word that comes to my mind when I think of this march is violence. Violence is being practiced here. Some have said that this is a filament of speech, but according to my understanding, a lawsuit is held hostage in that conversation is not really offered; solutions are not offered; other means are not offered. Here, members of the Central Party have offered other avenues. We have offered the art of conversation that has sometimes been considered to be the art of politics. We've offered a way of putting the case off and taking any further note. We've offered a way for the other way to go, i.e. that the case will be referred back to the joint EEA committee, as the laws and regulations and international agreements are expected. And we have offered that the matter will be suspended for a while. But things don't happen. But they don't listen to anything. They're supposed to run this through no matter what may be agitate and hummate in the weak hope that here we're giving up, which is a little forethought that won't happen. We will stress the challenge of inviting governments to join us in an upbuilding conversation on this subject, and we will continue to do so until it is possible to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u387	Mr. President. Yes, of course we will. It is not difficult for me to deal with that challenge. A senator because we really have faith in our stand on the matter. But it is not to see that at the council all who have proclaimed support have real faith in the case, at least Not more than they relied on them to come here and support the matter. I wondered before if it might have something to do with the more that we pointed out during the discussion, the more difficult it was for those in charge to defend it. I thought I was, for example. the willingness of the supporters of this third pack of energy to speak to him when it was found that the warnings proved unclear or even unclear whether the warnings existed as such. After that discussion began, it began suddenly to be diluted in the group of supporters of this matter here in the Hall of Congress and in this symposium. It tells a story about the importance of this discussion. It tells us how meaningful it is, that we are pointing to things that are contrary to the good view that humans do not even trust in to arise and contradict us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u388	Mr. President. The words of the former prime minister and the chairman of the Independence Party, ◯Lofty Deception, have come to a clear meaning. This is a delusion. I don't intend to say the word "lofsvert," but the picture has become quite clear. It was a shock to the government to accept a legal opinion made by Friðrik Fridek's Árni Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. The response is that the Ministry of State adds some kind of exchange or communication with them. This is shown in chapter 6 of that opinion. What do they do? They're not gonna give up. They stick to their main conclusions, their main conclusions, the basic proposal that the case will be carried out by the EEA joint committee. In this way, they provide a final version of their opinion. Again, the matter is clearly taken up with those leading to their writing of letters to the Ministry, the highest. A minister of state who, if I run my rights, is dated April 10th. And what do they do there? They still make this decision, that, as it has grown, this case should take place before the joint EEA committee, with the view that there will be an act of reconciliation on the basis of agreements itself and with the view that contributions from the regulations they have concluded to include, to the energy package, at least The indirect influence of foreign parties on national planning, provision and efficiency of energy resources. At this conclusion, Mr. President, the government would have been most right to decline this case. Rather, she invites the Generals to contribute in the way that this has been done. Actually, Mr. President, there is not a stone on this case. What was supposed to save the case was some concept, some legal one. Every person with minimal knowledge of legal terms and legal thinking sees that no legal arrangement that man has negotiated with himself can change a material structure introduced into the Icelandic law court, in the way that such types are taken. There is no authority in the contract to alter the requirements of these types. There is nothing to say: We are going to introduce this type, yet we are not going to introduce it as is indicated. So, Mr. President, each member of the government has disappeared from its origin. The independence party lacks the firmness that he once had and is clearly on more matters, without any reason being traced back to all humans. All information is missing in this case. There is no analysis of the national value of this legal advance. It may be unnecessary. It is obvious that he can have no national value, and in fact, Davíð told Þór Björgvinsson's son at a meeting of the foreign committee that he did not. This case is on the sand, Mr. President. It is pointless to be calling for something. Those who follow this matter will explain their feelings because they feel sorry for them. There's just no way for them to do it because this case is just legal indiscretion. [[The president calls.]] This is unacceptable. This isn't arranged. That matter should be dismissed properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u389	A respectable president. Thank you. Ísleifsson For the talk, the son of Isphemish, went as often as he would like to be with him in many places, and he brought many things into his mouth. He reviewed the views and opinions of several scholars on the warnings and the route involved in directing the case to the joint EEA committee. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is there any report or assessment or opinion of any scholar that is relevant in this discussion that points to the conclusion that the case should not be used at all to refer to the common EEA committee? They are the countless politicians who have spoken that way, but are they not fewer scribes who have told the full extent of their saying that this is not a good way? The image that politicians and supporters of the induction have tried to draw up is up to 102 C.E. is a safety inhibitor that is simply impossible to absorb or exploit. Hv. In the discussion earlier, a senator made the fine illustration that it was as if it were started in a house, and a fire extinguishor was not used because it had never been used before. The question is, what? Senator: Is there a scholar in the field of law who has claimed to refer the case to the EEA Common Committee, referred to at 102 C.E. The EEA Convention, isn't it good?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u390	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It may be rather a witness in this case. Let's bring out Swiss lawyer Carl Baudenbacher. He made out the only legal sentence you at least had. remembers, and the rest are political speculations, reflections, and cups. The legal phrase is this multiple times 102. g. The European Economic Area covenant is valid. Icelanders can use it. Much of the rest of his presentation appeared to be involved, as I said, speculations, cups of how well it would be in this case, as it sounds, when his words have been touched in Icelandic, to go that way. In such a case, it is quite simply expected that Iceland is expected to buy access to markets and charge by access to resources. We have testified to Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who is in charge of the Allied Council as a document in this case, with Davíð Oddsson's chief responsibility in his day, claiming that there was no other than that the Icelanders were able to go on the basis of the 102nds. g. with issues that were not compatible with the nation's interests for the EEA joint committee. And so wrote Oddsson the son of Oddd in his own writing, in the morning newspaper, in the branches that are known, though not marked, his signs are not revealed. I believe this situation is completely clear. It has not been demonstrated in any way that this route is closed. [[The president calls.]] It's just shouts and shouts and noises and nothing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u391	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson answers. Dr. Carl Baudenbachers's group was highly waved here during the first few days of the discussion by the producers, perhaps especially in the mood. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee and head of the Committee to View the greater part. To many people it was noted that the film drawn to Mr. Baudenbacher's opinion, it is safe to say that they were painted in colour as if everything was a prelude to Iceland's application of the method of referring to the common EEA committee through the 102rd century C.E. On page 18. 7 Under the 15th in Mr. Baudenbacher's report states in a more loose translation, with permission of presidents: ▪ About opposition in Iceland For the main part of Iceland's opposition to Regulation 713/2009 is about the perspective that Iceland takes up the case on the joint EEA Commission with the aim of creating other adaptations or results for Iceland due to the third energy package, particularly Regulation 713.◯ ◯That Wat wish do nomash, with permission of President, it would be useless. All of these great caution words spoken here at the early stage of the matter seem to be abating that this expert declares that the way that is handled is indiscriminate to humans and to all concerned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's all the warning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u392	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, and like a boy. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson has made such a memorable observation. A senator would quote him, it would be indiscriminate to go that way. In fact, it seems to me that the tone of support in this case has changed greatly to the opinion of Professor Baudenbacher. This is because it contains a comment that is not suitable for those people who want to generate the energy package. For example, when he speaks of the loyalty of the Icelanders to the Norwegians and Liechtensteins, and when he speaks of the Norwegian people taking their part in the European Economic Area as a two-sided contract in which Iceland and Liechtenstein play a role. It is understandable, though it may not be grand, that those who are involved in this matter do not continue to hold that opinion really and indeed promote it. That's how this case stands, Mr. President. Of course, it will be remembered long before the advice of a foreign counselor to try to paralyze the country's resistance development, to discourage it from defending his fundamental interests, his natural resources, and to compromise the principle of what it is being drawn up in the great commission of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, which lies right here as a document of this matter, that it does not exist, as he puts it, that there is access to the market to access by access to resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u393	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There is no disagreement with the people here that the matter is not deemed acceptable, and I agree with them. The senator said he was in a position to dismiss the case. So now is the rest thereof, and all the building thereof. It has been noted that as the discussion deepened, so much less have we seen from the executives here and those who follow the bill. I'd like to, with permission of the highest. President, here to testify in a speech of the highest order. The minister of the former discussion of this council resolution since 9 April 2018, where he has not been here to answer, has been allowed by President: In this relationship it is also very important to share a common understanding of the EU energy manager at the uniqueness enjoyed by Iceland in a common energy market. Also, the experts who have been consulted agree that the common understanding builds a strong foundation for the induction. Although the declaration does not have a direct legal influence, it does have a legal significance, and it shows that our parties have the same understanding as we do on the basis of the induction. Why, if we don't need this, is this not done in the European Economic Area Convention? Is it not surprising that this is the case? Senator? I have to apologize for the portents. But isn't this amazing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u394	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. I'd let me call it paradox, what he tore up here. One is gnarly. Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has approached an official in the European Union who is somehow taking some form of energy. It provides some results of their conversation, as described above, to confirm that the energy editor acknowledges that Iceland is an island north of the prom sea without electricity connection to the European or United Kingdom continent. The question is simply this: Why does the minister of foreign affairs follow this common statement, which describes our uniqueness, this sense of this high official in the European Union, not after? Why doesn't he follow up when this joint statement has been made by EFTA, Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein, which was submitted at a meeting of the European Commission on May 8, where these three countries declare some kind of solidarity of Iceland? There's only a malbig way to handle the case on the joint committee and look for a formal replacement of Íslendingur on the part of the introduction of these types, which natural things have no business here because there is no connection - just as we are not asked to introduce some type of natural gas, because there is no natural gas. Why don't the men follow through on this? [[The president calls.]] What are these men so afraid of? Perhaps these men would not have had the strength to ask for the provisions we received here at the EEA Convention and be subject to seafood? You ask yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u395	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for the answer. Yes, all of this is true, and all the guides in the case point to the same location: The decision is likely to be made by someone or by someone, or under pressure, to take a course that is impossible to take on the basis of what is being given. I'm inclined to agree that this is, in a struggle with the will of a greater part of the Generals, aimed at implementing a full course of energy package three and getting applause from the European Union for. When we first looked at it, it never existed. It has been stated here that all the leaders of these groups leading in formation have declared that, Mr. President, they would never go this way, there was no place. This place would be a guard of the sovereignty and our authority over the energy resource and this way would not be gone. However, 12 months later, a complete reversal of that policy and so on, despite declarations that it is extremely careful, is complete that all compromises will not be accepted. And no one is ready to come here in a talk chair and question those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u396	President. Yes, this case will not be approved here at the Council on the basis of its merit. If this is so unfortunate and unfortunate that it will be accepted, it will be done because the situation in Icelandic politics has developed that political parties with a long and dignified history, such as to make up the three members of a government sector, have somehow become separate from their origin and have somehow lost their side of grieving, Mr. President. From my point of view, this is the most prominent thing in the Independence Party, which seems to be completely lacking the firmness that the majority of the political history has had - and at times has greatly remembered. No other comment can be made than that many people have remembered the forward party. But not now. He's kind of a crutch in this business, and he's just grateful to be there. The responsibility of the left green, now in charge for the first time in its history, is, of course, very great. In fact, in recent decades the media reports that they do not know their old group. This case is so growing that this is not a city built on a rock; it is built on sand, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u397	Mr. President. I'm going to review the legal advance that the government has said is the right one to do so that the Constitution will not be threatened by the introduction of the third EU energy directive, which I repeat to include laws that make significant doubt subject to the opinion of the government's legal adviser to perform the Icelandic constitution. Most likely, a smile was moved upon the faces of members of the Government when it was announced that the Allied Council should now be submitted to a third energy directive and that it would be done by a so-called legal advance. By that time, the Constitution would be no danger and all safe, Mr. President. The opposition to the issue, mostly within two administrations, to the Independence Party and to the Front Party, simply disappeared. You may have leaned back in your seats and thought about what a genius it would be, the case was solved: We just have a legal advance. Who invented this? They gave up their hands as a sign of approval, and they smiled at one another. Energy resources were safe. Men and women threw the duck lightly. Next case, please. But it's not that simple, Mr. President. It seemed that the final solution was established that even the most skeptics agreed to accept it. There was no need to worry about the Constitution or the authority of the European Commission. It would be absolutely safe to lift the administrative alert and then introduce the third energy directive because the directive would be implemented by legal warning. Did not the exact details of this legal advance - or did they know? This did not seem to be the case, for when the members of the Central Party repeatedly called for this legal notice, the answers were very misleading and the answers were different from the members of the council, depending on who was involved. Now it's at least to five editions of the identity or content of this event, and it has just been reported that two new suggestions came from a previous source. A candidate woman, but the person here has not been able to investigate the truthfulness of this matter or whether it was possible. something new is being proposed. It seems, therefore, that Mr. President, the fine work so noted by the executives, and the overwhelming overrulers so much as to say that they had occurred, simply did not achieve better results than is actually shown to the commander's footmen. I'm gonna go over this notice. First of all, the declaration of a common understanding was made. The secretary of state and the European Union's energy manager and yourself said the highest. Ministers that the proclamation did not have a legal effect but that it had a legal significance in the case. Of course, that statement is of no value, Mr. President, except as some kind of political favour from Brussels officials and is mainly about a man named Miguel realizing that Iceland was an island and that they both agreed on this. Second, a joint statement by EFTA states was made, but the claim to Iceland's speciality is merely that the country is not linked to Europe on a sea cable and that it is therefore impossible to lead it from electricity. In this respect, a declaration has no value on the induction of third EU energy directive. Third, a change in electrical law was identified, and I had reviewed it before. There's an additional 9. The electronic laws, but is this the legal reserve that has been sought for, a change in electricity law? If so, it would certainly have been possible to save for themselves this bill because this text, basically correct, Mr. President, is already found in electronic law at 39 C.E. a. What kind of compromise is this? Changing the electric law and calling it legal? And then, when the law is read, it is almost the same wording already in the law. [[The president calls.]] What's the background?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u398	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Similarly, Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his talk, and I thank him for the hard work he does in searching for warnings. I'll take a look at a speech. The senator, who has announced the next assignment in the search for an analysis of an assignment. In fact, a candidate of the Convention imparted great legal ambition to his readers and might even appear to read the details of the entry into the astrophysics known today. Mr. President. Hv. The members of the board of directors feel sorry for them. What should they do? What points do they have in this discussion? They have in their absence here clearly explained that they do not consider themselves to be relevant in this discussion. And their pity is because what is to be blessed the people. Senators, to say? The entire structure of this case is frightening, as the members of the Central Party have already discovered in this exercise. There isn't a stone on a stone. With nothing here, as they say today, every sea bazaar is dragged here and is called a legal decree. And people have made themselves a form of laughing material that puts out the other and those ideas about what the legal arrangement would be. But all these legal warnings have something in common, as was clearly shown in the matter of what. Senator, they have no national value. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Zero.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u399	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson for his indentation. In short, it is for those who are listening that the government intends to introduce the third energy package, as it is called, although the legal advisers of the government have warned that these are regulations that are quite certain to pass the Constitution of the Icelandic Republic. When this is to be introduced by what is called subtracting a governmental warning, which we do by this Senate resolution that we address here, the risk to the constitution is spent with a wording we've been arguing with, i.e. that this will be done on legal notice; hence, there is no danger to the Constitution. In a few words, it is very simple. We have been pointing to and asking, "Where are these legal warnings? " We've got some answers. We've taken them and diagnosed them a dozen times and come up with speeches and we've come to the conclusion, many times, that it doesn't work out. Those legal officers won't be able to resist. These are various declarations, some changes to laws that are already found in the Law. These are some well-founded conferences that we're an island and we don't have a string that can be brought here by electricity. This is what the management are calling legal warnings. It's just a word of mouth, Mr. President. I ask the question I don't like to do: Is it a practice of deception?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u400	Mr. President. It certainly draws attention to the reason why. For example, the senators, for example, have most people not expressed themselves about the matter. Clearly, those who have done so in some respects were careful not to make a point of view. As far as we're concerned. In the past few weeks, members of the Independence Party have been allowed to read their papers some kind of apology for the position they describe with support to this energy package. During the last days, there is a lack of logical reasoning that holds out the claims that electrical prices will decrease, which is preposterous as everyone sees. It is claimed to be a consumer issue to a nation living at one of the lowest electrical prices in Europe. Don't even think about it. It is claimed that this is a matter of an equality. There is no explanation. And it is claimed that this is necessary to ensure that there is an open and free community, that this energy package is introduced and administered to foreign sources of energy from the nation, organization, provision and efficiency. So the case is to agree to enter the nation's resources from foreign sources without a response or any analysis of the next energy package, the fourth. There is no diagnosis of Norwegian experience. There is no analysis of national consequences. There is no economic analysis of electrical prices. This case is so completely unacceptable, Mr. President, that the half would be enough, as they sometimes say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u401	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I'm going to continue with this legal notice that we've been advertised for and that there was little to be answered. As the police say, people have been killed. If these legal officers fail to resist as we have been claimed, Mr. President, what happens then? They will have some national value, i.e. if there are differences, if there are issues or anything that test the energy directive, someone in court, or anything like that, regardless of what it will be in the future: Does this have any national value? Of course not! Of course, this is of no value. It's just gonna be cleared off the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u402	Mr. President. There's a free talk coming from you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. He's been looking for the missing warnings, as we sometimes say, and it sounds to me that the search has not worked. There's actually one theory I have, because I find it so mysterious. I find it so mysterious how many members of the board of directors who had doubts about this energy package, apart from the fact that two of the member states had recently received national meetings and, on the other hand, a central government releases that it was not possible to link the European Union's energy policy to Iceland in some way. Now, however, it turns out that these members of the council have been ordered into the countryside. I've been thinking a lot about what has caused these fine men and women to change their minds. I have thought that this is because they have been told that those who have now come to know that they are not real and are not able to resist change their case. I have somehow believed that these good people have been deceived to back up the case, saying: "Here are the officers who nail this case in every way. There is no risk. This is how it's going to be. This is what I think. I'd like to have some ideas. þm. Karl Gauti Einarsson on this matter, what he thinks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u403	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's scoring remarks and tips. I'm going to discuss just another legal event that has been mentioned by some member of the council. There have been reports of regulations. It's not clear what regulations are being meant, Mr. President. It's not clear to me yet. Is it European Commission Regulation we are about to implement, No. 713? I'm not fully aware of this, because in a paper with the synonym, there is an expression that this Regulation, probably the one I am discussing, should be changed if something is going to test the shape of a sea cable. I don't understand this wording in a synopsis proposal, Mr. President. I don't understand how the Icelanders are going to change a Regulation covering the whole European Union, especially if they're going to introduce it in the whole area. I can't figure it out if it's the right thing to do. However, there may be another understanding; in the case of regulations, this is a mandatory directive. I've been given specifications to regulations I have in my hands and there's a familiar text in Article 3. about an electrician across a border, which we assume we will control, or may not, repairs. Then I wonder: Is this the legal authority? Where did it come from? It's started in an office up here in Shadow Strait, in one of the Ministry, and most likely signed by one of the Ministers of the Iceland Government at the time of her birth. Ministry regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u404	Mr. President. I have just wondered, " Why is it that a great deal of effort is being put in motion to move through a matter that doesn't matter, which makes no difference, a bit of a showdown, which is protected by warnings that do not exist and do not have any legal value? ' I wonder, Mr President, what are the foxes cut off for? What is it that motivates men to... - I think I have the wrong clock, Mr. President. I think we've been two in answer, and I would've thought I should have two minutes, but not one? What causes this matter to be run through the council in this crisis? If it's a case that doesn't matter, what's the rush? What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u405	I think the President introduced it at the beginning of his reply, three o'clock. Senators have requested an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u406	I'd like to apologize to the president for not paying attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u407	Then speech time is cut short in the second round, like the oar. A senator is well - known as president. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u408	I have full confidence in a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u409	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his tips. I was reading the Council of Ministers' Regulation in the Iceland government that has not yet been published, but it has been sent out by me. It's not long, it's four articles, and it's going to be signed in the industrial, tourism and innovation department up here in the Shadow Channel in Reykjavík and released there. We know that Iceland's regulations are less than laws, Mr. President. But regulations in the European Union are of far greater importance within the European region than is popular in Iceland. That's different. The EU rules are far more important than regulations in the United States. Therefore, I ask, if this is the legal prefect, the Regulation issued by a minister in the government of Iceland, I'll just say, "The mountain has gone into labor and there was a little mouse born."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u410	Mr. President. It is not difficult for us at the Central Party Congress to have in the same man a lawyer, a policeman, and an ex-concrete businessman, looking for national warnings on the European Union's third energy package. But despite hard work and good for a job, it sounds like a reason. A senator has not yet found real legal warnings. The search will no doubt continue, and I look forward to hearing more of the results, because I noticed why. A senator failed to complete his passage earlier. Hv. One senator mentioned that he assumed that these imaginary warnings mentioned in the past would likely be swept off the table. Then I thought about what to say. paritaprevir Haraldur's son Benediktsson, who said about possible warnings without seeing what they looked like, that the European Union would sweep all such things out of the table like dead flies. Probably hit a dog. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson there. I hope when it comes to a vote on this matter, it's a good idea. A senator votes according to that. But my question to why. A senator has to do with his experience and education as a lawyer. I'd like to ask him to explain in a way that could be given a warning in the matter, i.e. Premiers who gave them real replacements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u411	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for his question. I'm just going to finish this with the Regulation. Of course, by one of the Ministers of the European Commission, the European Court has no value in fighting regulations or directives properly introduced in the EEA. It has virtually no value. It's perfectly obvious, so I'm just putting this Regulation aside. I was going to continue with the wording in a paper with a synonym for this introduction, but in its consequence, I would like to say that if the European Union's energy directive is introduced into Icelandic correctly with the approval of this Parliament-sense proposal, then we are bound by it. Then we are bound by this rule unless we have received some special exception, which is then specified in the Order itself. We're tied. It does not matter that there are some regulations published, meeting in meetings, making a statement, realizing that Iceland is an island, having some wording in its essays by a Congress resolution. It doesn't matter. The only right way, because of what. A senator asks that, of course, it is to introduce it by means of exceptions which take place on the right track, i.e. to the EES joint committee, where we ask for an exception and it would be granted to us. That's when we're out of it. It will then reveal what is left of this Regulation or of these articles. That's the legal right way to escape you. In terms of all the warnings that have been mentioned so far in this matter, I am now going to give the management staff full opportunity to direct me to where the legal defense is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u412	Mr. President. Whether it is true or not, history is known that when the European Union was initiating a common railroad rule, it is expected that Iceland would take up that rule. Then someone has drawn up a map of Europe and helped people see that Iceland was an island. According to this story, it seemed to surprise some official. But as a result, a permanent discharge was given, from the common railroad rule, and there was a limited chance that Iceland would ever be connected to Europe by railways. Then I ask in relation to this story: Why shouldn't a permanent discharge be made in an electrical connection? Is it because they believe that there is a chance that Iceland will be connected to Europe by electrical cables, unlike those of the railroads, and then they think they'll have a rule of the European Union when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u413	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I was going to finish my case by taking a look at the synopsis and reading what is said on page 6. 3, with President's permission: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced in Icelandic correctly but legally before us - which we have not been given -- to the infrastructure that makes it possible to import electricity between Iceland and the EU energy markets without being reviewed by the exception of a law-based review Once again, I ask: What regulations are meant here? Is it the Regulation to sign in the region of Shadows, or is it the Council of the European Union that we are going to implement? How are we going to review the Council of the European Union? How will we do so once we have introduced it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u414	Mr. President. I have considered some of the opinions of the administrative parties on the issue we are discussing in a few recent talks, and I wanted to add a little. I ran into a story from RUS from last year, a year ago, a year ago or so, with the heading: doubting participation in the panEuropean energy system. It talks with a member of the European Union's Bank on the left green, but he wants to consider whether Iceland will remain part of the EU's policy on energy and fear that the European energy system could prevent energy resources from being used here to make Iceland a share of 2040. In fact, this is just a new story, but it is said that it is just before we would settle this matter here at the council. A report by the U.S.A. brings to mind that both the independent party and the forwarding party had inferred against the directive. The Independence Party concluded, with permission of the President: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. The Prosecution Council concluded: The mission team defends Iceland's energy-industry countries and rejects the European Union's energy legislation as part of the European Commission Convention on the European Economic Area. Left green has had doubts about the third energy package, says the report, had not concluded at that time a year ago, so a senator was consulted among them to explain the position of the left green in this matter. By choice, you had to. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. He says here, with President's permission, in this report, RUS: I'm going to make a lot of people, and I'm going to make a lot of notice. Not only the contents of this third energy package in the European Union but where we really go in this pan-European energy system as a whole. This is interesting in view of what has happened since then. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé continues to say to RUS: This third energy package is less effective here than in many other countries. That is, while we are not directly connected to the European market. THE headline of this report is: Uncertain of legal and political influences. And it goes on to say in the story, quote the senator: He says that members of Congress must settle the matter. It cannot be expected that the council will cancel without a thorough review. A third pack of energy was recently approved at the Norwegian Parliament. In fact, there were conflicting opinions. The labor movement was against him, and the sister class of VG Sosianski left Company voted against him. A year ago, the attitude of this fine senator is said to be this. Right away. A senator is asked whether he is talking about winding down the earlier directives, i.e. No. 1 and No. Two, he says: I'm talking about sitting over it and seeing if it's the right thing some people have claimed that the system we live in today puts us in some way for the door to decide in what we want to use our energy. If that study proves to be so, I am absolutely clear that we are supposed to wind off it. Because nothing is more important in the coming years of politics than working against climate change. And if there's anything in the principle that prevents it, whether it's sheamitic or co - European, we should have the courage to sit down and decide that it has to change or push it around in some way. There were so many words. paritaprevir Proppér, what has happened since, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u415	Mr. President. What has happened? A lot of things have happened, for there have been a number of causes. Councilmen and the highest. The government's ministers have been explicit and have offered excellent reasons to warn of the developments that the same people are now trying to introduce. What may impress you is that these people don't come here and explain what selected them, why they've changed their mind. It may be that something has come up again and that this is not just about a group meeting at the Ministerial Building with representatives of all the board or a meeting or what we're going to call him. They may have heard something that convinced them. But if that convinced them, then don't come here and tell us about it so that they might convince us or some one of those who may be watching. Rather, they stay away. The dog. A senator named Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has, of course, been seen here in the house. Occasionally he comes and jumps for the camera to be seen, but he does not participate in the discussion. Why would that be? I'm going to allow me to bring up a theory that I don't think can be considered farfetched after all, when we look at all the facts. I'm going to cast out the theory to the point. A senator has more conviction about the position he presented in that regard. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson read up, but the position he intends to vote for. Counts 'em out. A senator, who has studied his earlier writings by now. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Proppér of Othmappéés, because this may be the cause?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u416	Mr. President. To tell you the truth, I'm curious to know. That is why at the end of my talk, I asked: " What has happened? A very good interview, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, mentioned by the Supreme Court. He was also very firm in his opposition to this matter by the financial minister of Bjarni Benediktsson. Here we have a very good interview with this fine senator, and he gives us very good reasons, I think, for his stand, for 12 months, that he is absolutely against a pack of three energy. I'll buy his whole explanation. Therefore, I find it so interesting that now, about 12 months later, those of the delegates who have expressed themselves have been so completely turned about by their attitude toward the energy package. I say like what? One senator suggested: I thought it was an catch to know exactly what was causing the conversion of these fine senators and the Supreme Court. Minister. Maybe I've just missed something. Maybe there's something really great in this package that I don't understand. Perhaps there have been some changes, the cases so completely in favour of me that I just sit around and don't leave it. I'd be lucky to hear that. But people do not allow an interview, as you say, and have not trusted in or want to be here with us and answer those simple questions. What caused this change to take place? What do we not understand in this case that is so dramatic that it has contributed to this conversion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u417	Mr. President. I have no doubt that the president would agree with me that the position was taken. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Sæmundsson described earlier is commendable. I agree with what. A senator about it, and I'm not going to criticize him for it. There is good reason to give men the opportunity to convince us. Especially in the case of humans who have expressed even the same concern in some way that we have been describing the third energy package but who have suddenly changed our mind. If so, it would be helpful for us to know why so, so that we can determine for ourselves whether there are reasons why we should reconsider our stand. It would be worse for us to take a vote without being informed about what was causing a change in the lives of other members of the council. What I fear is that the reason why men don't come here and explain this to us and make their own arguments, answer the arguments we've been doing here in a few speeches - I fear it's because they don't have a conviction about our new position. Then I'll ask why. A senator: What can we do to help this incident? Councilmen? If this is the case, what can we do to help them to do what they really want to do and to follow the stand they have even made and have sorely reasoned? How can we help them to allow their attitude to be pleasurable? Are they afraid of anything we can help them remove? Has a what? A senator's idea of how we can help?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u418	V.E.G. President. Yes, what can we do? What we've been doing here for the last time is discussing this matter even better than we had done before in order to understand it for ourselves. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was against this case last year, but unlike him, I still am. I have not seen any arguments or changes in the language that encourage me to change my mind, even though this is the wise way of doing so. In this case, no spirit has come upon me that tells me that it is absolutely necessary to remove the screw and jump off the case the way it is now. I haven't seen it. I don't know if it could convince these fine senators to be here -- and now it's going well. A concierge in the hall, and welcome, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir. It could no doubt help us to improve our understanding of the matter of having a few conversations with members of the council. paritaprevir An Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir daughter who has a deep knowledge of this matter. It may well be, if she took the time to be here with us, that she could convince us how good this matter is and convince us that we've been wronged and hungry. But that has not been suggested so far. That's why you're left behind, and you don't understand why these fine senators have turned their backs, and whole councils have joined national and central meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u419	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I've been particularly interested in informing the public and the body of Congress on how electricity prices for households and businesses have increased the implementation of this energy package from the European Union, these directives that are being discussed here. Now it's an energy pack. The energy package has previously been implemented by one and two sources. We see the whole process, that electricity prices are being moved to homes and companies always closer and closer to what is in Europe. We know that electricity prices in Europe are high and much higher in this country. So this is the concern that I've been reviewing here, especially with an energy package one and two. Energy pack three further provides the basis for the increase in electricity prices. It is Directive 2009/72 EB, part of a pack of three energy. Says the "F" team 37. ... to ensure that there are no cross-overs between transport, distribution, and delivery activities It thus reduces the ability of the government to supply electricity to e.g. The cold areas, food production, transportation, and other projects that voters and their elected representatives consider important to support, as it were. I want to ask you why. A senator: Is it not cause for concern that members of the council are not conscious of this? This is one step after another, to increase electricity to consumers, households and businesses in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u420	Mr. President. For some time now, I have been waiting to find out how to discuss the tremendous economic impact that this third energy package could have, especially on the Iceland national level. During the discussion, I happened to accidentally come across a very intense article that, in my opinion, sheds a new light on this subject and is a powerful reason for us to turn around to the third energy package and go forward to an expanded access system from the induction process. This is an article from the 2002 morning newspaper and is therefore expected to turn to another EU energy package, which is: Iceland is applying for a release from the EU Directive. This article says, Mr. President, with permission from the President: According to the European Bjarnason directive as the bill for a new electronic law, it is based on the European Union itself. If it's in any situation other than in this country, then it's a good idea. So he doesn't understand why they haven't been looking for a release for Iceland from the directive. Steinar Jóhannsson, member of the left movement, claims to be the opinion that Iceland should apply for annuity from the directive. Einar Oddur Kristjánsson, member of the Independence Party, emphasized the need for a good review of the bill to a new power layer. The rest of the bill was submitted to the General Assembly for introductions. This is mainly due to EU directive on the internal market of electricity in Europe, both in the EU and in the European economy. The directive requires equality for processing and sales of electricity so that legal barriers do not interfere with competition. It would have been introduced here on July 1, but according to the current version of the bill to be submitted to the next council, the law would be expected to take effect on 1 January 2003. ▪ I have expressed the opinion within the management board of Reykjavík's Power Office that if the company's clients' interests are guided by the evaluations made in this case, to be told Bjarnason. The European Union Directive (EU) has established that the law will increase electricity prices. There have now been two bills delivered based on this directive, but they do not agree. That's what it says. It's a bed. A question is, if all benefits within its framework have been fully explored in the interests of Icelandic consumers. And then there's a subheading, Mr President. ▪ Bjarn Bjarnason reports that he understands the concern of industrial and business ministers, Valgerður Sverrisdóttir, because timeouts are not to be held in order to legalize the EU Directive in this country. I don't understand why not yet looking for a release for Iceland from this directive. It's tailored to a situation that's different from that of this country. Don't you think it's more reasonable to go with an exception than to pick up with European monitoring agencies because of a struggle with an order that hasn't been legalized because of a great deal of opposition at home? So when I moved it into the management of the Reykjavík Power Institute, to investigate the problem, whether it would be possible to turn away from the path of nuclear power right here in this large European context, it was well received. All I know is the director and director of the company are working in line with that conclusion of the government. Björn says that the modern economy of Icelandic energy companies and reorganize the electricity industry with a market objective. However, it must be done on national grounds, the EU directive does not depend on them. The Árni of Steinar Jóhannsson, representative of the WG on the Generalist Committee, also had something to do with this, but I'm afraid I have no time to trace it from this brief speech, Mr. President. But I agree with the diagnosis of Björn Bjarnason's son on the induction of this energy package, and it certainly applies equally to this case in the case of the third energy package, which is completely different in that it is much more burdensome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u421	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I think that it is absolutely necessary to continue the journey we have been on in the Central category, and to recall how electrical prices increased with a energy package of one and two. Despite claiming that this would not be the case, politicians, ministers, did not have any support. Of course, it is a responsibility when the politicians and the Ministers of the jury claim to the common people and businesses in the country that there will be no change in electrical prices, and then there will be nothing else during the day. We can see this and have shown it in this discussion, with middle - class members. We have identified 2005's press reports of increases in electrical prices and substantial increases in households. If you look at the letters that were written in the Ministry at this time in the introduction of the first energy package, you'll see, by permission of the president, if I read from one letter: In the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, there is an electronic bill. It includes both the Hebrew and the Greek words translated "character " and" the Hebrew Scriptures. " The separation of competitive and mono-immunication factors in the management of electrical energy companies is laid down so that production and sale will be separated from transport and distribution. According to social obligations, electricity companies will be lifted. What did that mean? This meant no longer being subsidized, e.g. to remote towns, etc., where electricity was expensive, so that the social factors and duties so important were lifted. I wanted to hear from you. A senator: Isn't this really an example of that? A senator, that these packages of energy have nothing to do with our oppressive and rural countries? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u422	Mr. President. Yes, just as Björn Bjarnason was so good at the time, this is not relevant at all here and may even have the opposite effect in relation to what is to be expected. Björn says, actually, it's the only thing you'd put on, that it's not against the market of energy, but it says that it has to happen on Icelandic terms. I now imagine he has even. being referred to as the need for us to have an opportunity to use our energy for the sake of industry and settlements, that's part of doing this on Icelandic terms. Yet, the change is what took place. A senator brings up the possibility of using electronic energy on social grounds, of course, to be part of this vicious market for internationalism, and does not mean that it strengthens the competitiveness of Iceland, but on the contrary. Because energy, energy production, and distribution have been such an important foundation for all other employment here. And that is, i.e. how valuable this resource is, that it enables us to do so many other things that would otherwise not be possible. It has enabled us to build employment in many parts of the earth, where it has been under attack for various reasons. That is when energy has come to the aid and has been used to reverse this trend. So it is entirely a result of Icelandic interests and local circumstances that men should remove this possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u423	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator when he brings out this possibility, this social duty, which can be said to be the cornerstone of our development in the national electricity system. I'm going to say, like Southnes heat system. It was the rural communities of Southnes that built it, owned this good business, and took a lot of sacrifice and hard work. The purpose was to bring the population of Southnes, so I mention, for example, cheap electricity and later hot water. So we look at the fact that these factors are falling away. But the big question may be, Why didn't politicians object? In view of the consequences of all of this, why were people doing this without murmuring? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u424	Mr. President. I've been making stories about some of the energy companies on a book. These books provide tremendous insight into the development of the communities in which these companies have been built and worked, and they help you to see the rich relationship between prosperity, employment, and energy production. This relationship should in fact emphasize the importance of the continuation of this social element. But, hey. A senator asks: "Why didn't people object? " Well, as shown in the previous article, there was clear evidence that men protested and even accurately predicted what was to be expected. But then, as now, it seems that the European Union's pressure as the foreign minister of the day was apparently being resented was eventually overcoming these protests and warnings. Let us hope that this will not happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u425	Mr. President. I admit, I'm in places similar to what I'm doing. A senator who spoke before me. Now I have come to realize that when a discussion of a second energy package at the time, it was practically none, that the case, as we sometimes call it here at the council, literally slipped through a note. The effects of that package included On energy prices for families and businesses, they caused fear, at least in my case, to piss me off. That is why the energy package No. Three is just the package where we should stop, step down, and say, "Here and no more for now, let's see where we're going. Let's look at each package one and two have returned to us. Let us see what is included in the package No. Four across the corner. Let us simply take the matter seriously and try to resolve it thereafter. That's why I'm asking. A senator whether he explained why he had such a problem with the other person. In fact, I now feel that, at the beginning of the third energy package, the government groups have practically calculated and expected them to be supplied in the same way as No. Two had been made at the time. So I ask. A senator: What does he have to explain that in his day, another package passed through the council like a hot knife through butter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u426	Mr. President. I have sometimes claimed that history repeats itself, and sometimes it is said that those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. It is, in fact, striking to read this description e.g. Björn Bjarnason's attitude, his warnings, and good evidence support for why not introduce one of the electricity directives that was then called the second energy package, although it was not nearly as burdensome or as pack as it is now. However, this warning was given, pointing out that there is the possibility of receiving an exception. This would not apply to Icelandic conditions and would even harm them. What caught my special attention in this article was that the pressure seemed to come from the minister of foreign affairs, probably under pressure from the European Union. That pressure seems to have been on top. That's why I'm afraid the story is just repeating itself. Despite warnings like those of the night. A senator read up from earlier on. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér and the ones we've read about, by Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance, and there are a number of others who could be referred to at the highest level. Ministers and senators who now seem to be supporting this case seem to be winning if the politicians do not resist, stand on their feet, and say: "Here and no farther. Now it's time we have to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u427	V.E.G. President. It has also been observed during this discussion, and in the past, a panel of left greens has been totally opposed to the energy bags that have been sealed so far, i.e. No. 1 and No. Two. If you look at previous votes, you'll find out. But at present, left greens are responsible for the market of energy resources in Iceland. And I'm still, what. A senator, wondering what has caused these fine people to repent. I've also been wondering, as men have heard, what would have happened if all these classes, i.e. An advance, an independent group and left green, would have gone into a campaign last time and said: We are going to implement a third European energy directive after 18 months. I wondered what the election was like. I wondered what the voters of those who are mad now would have said. As a result, I have to say like the woman from the north again: I think I'd like to be a dead fly on the wall on Saturday at Valhalla and watch what goes on there. There's got to be some wild action, and it's got to sound a lot better, Mr. President. But I can't understand how these fine people are going to explain to their voters, their partners at the grass root, how their business has taken place. I can't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u428	Mr. President. No, there is hope. It's hard for a senator to figure that out. But he introduced an enormous point of interest in this whole context, pointing out that there was a relatively low probability, I think it is safe to assume, that this induction had a great deal of support in elections or groups it would have proclaimed. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It's not about public will. This sort of thing isn't made up, it's not attacked because it's the will of the public. In other words, this is not exactly democratic. So why is this done? The article I read from earlier gives us insight into it. For good reason, I read this article. It was a reminder that if politicians fail to rule that system, there is always a danger. It did this in the case of the second energy directive, and now it looks like it will happen again, that the result is not what people choose in elections, not what the public supports after elections, and certainly not what the government supporters want, but the system in Brussels, which is accustomed to getting their way to the end because it is a failure for politicians to control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u429	Mr. President. I gave my final talk to the legal premium that the government has said was a limp that made it safe to introduce a third EU energy directive so that the Constitution would not be threatened. I had considered some of the five possibilities given to us here by the Generals when they've been pointing out what it might be, where this legal warning could be found. I had reviewed the European Commission's common declaration of energy and the highest. Secretary of state. I had reviewed the EFTA declaration and had come to a warning that is said to be the legal agent found in the government bill for the change in electrical law, i.e. Change of area 9. Electrical layer, in which one paragraph is inserted on the link between the national electricity system and the electrical systems of other countries. I wondered, " Is this the legal officer who has been looking for it? ' If so, it would certainly have been possible to save themselves this bill because this text is already found almost correct in the electronic law, Mr. President, in a group of 39. In addition, he has nothing to do with the induction of the energy directive that the Icelandic government will commit itself to implement by the approved Parliamentary resolution proposed here. He has nothing to do with it. The induction will be regardless of any change in electrical law, which is unnecessary in my opinion. Fourth, wording has been referred to in a paper with the synoptic proposal that we address here, but the text simply foretells the implementation of Regulation 713/2009 in a conventional way but by legal warning of the infrastructure that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU, the European Union. These infrastructures will only be built up to a review of the laws on the basis of the Regulation, as it is said in a paper with the Council's Reconception. The sound of words attracts attention. This text in the paper cannot be the legal one. It can't be. Especially when it is considered to be the synonym to agree, the legal value in itself is not accepted. Consequences are the will of the Council rather than the law. However, it seems that this legal decree is being announced. You are getting excited about what will come next in this death search for legal warnings. Fifth: Recently, the governor gave the fifth tip about where and what the legal problem might be, or, like, what happened. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir put it, with the permission of the President: The legal guardian referred to appears in the Parliamentary decree that we are dealing with. That's what it says. Senator: Of course, when it arrives, he will be taken up directly in the regulations. Where is that Regulation? And where was that rule when the case was submitted? I've been given instructions on a Regulation, which is probably what it is. A senator is referring, probably. Not a Regulation such as the European Union, but a noble place in the European legislation. No, it's not. It's official. A common U.S. regulations intended for travel ministers, industry and innovation are published in Article 3. premium for cross-border structures. Should we believe that? Do men think that a Regulation written in the Ministry that is signed on the secretary's desk has any significance in this context? Do they really think that? Is this the legal court, and will these legal warnings, if any of them are now the right one, be on trial? What is the national value of these legal warnings that I have been referring to? Is it of any value if we have introduced the European Union's Directive and directives of third energy legislation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u430	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He was here in charge of EU regulations that are to be introduced into Icelandic rights. In fact, the third energy package is a package of regulations aimed at providing a common market area of electricity, and we become participants in it in the joint European Economic Area. What I wanted to say to you is what I wanted to say. That's exactly what a senator is doing with the regulations. It is now, for example. 1 Directive of 2009 No. Seventy-two to go, it's F-jords 37. g., of the duty of oversight: To ensure that there are no cross-overs between the transport, distribution and delivery functions of the EU This is a directive that actually reduces our ability to supply electricity, e.g. to the colder regions. It's interesting, Mr. President, to consider the talks of those who were against a energy package one and two in their own time. It was there, for example. Yeah. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and he gave one of his best talks when speaking against a pack of energy, one and two here in the Assembly Hall in March 2003. In his talk, he says that he feels that members of the council did not put themselves in the situation well enough and that they really do not know what it is about. So I ask. A member of Parliament: Is it not a serious danger that members of Congress do not enter these regulations, read them, and do not know exactly what they are about? Of course, members of Congress do not insist that electricity prices rise in Iceland - but that is just a fact on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u431	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the questions, Þórarinsson's son's offer. I was going to continue with the value of these legal warnings only, whether they will be kept if they are under test. It is clear, and we have discussed here that if we agree with this Parliamentary arrangement, we are obliged, Mr. President, to introduce a third European energy directive. Then let no law come against it in the land. We need to adjust the law, change it, and eliminate something that is against it. We're tied to her. Now they say, "There's no cable here." Of course, there's a lot of other rules in this rule that we might have to answer for in the event of an incident that I don't have a imagination to imagine who could be. This is similar to what a small town in the country would decide: We are not going to let the laws apply here, not in this community. The town government agrees. There's no roads here anyway, and there's no cars in the place, she says. The Prefect of the District Department declares that the town government is absolutely right, there are no cars there, so there are no traffic laws. Does it have any value? If you were going there on some kind of vehicle, had a crash, wanted to sue, thought that the traffic law would not be valid, no matter what the town government had approved or the sheriff, or even if a minister had implicated, of course, no traffic laws in a town where there were no roads and no vehicles? Of course, I think those who would have problems there would immediately pull up the traffic laws and seek their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u432	Mr. President. Yes, I only want to proceed with this, that members of the council may not be sufficiently within the regulations being implemented. Many governments have said that this is not appropriate for us because a cable is not there, that we need not worry about this. However, we are implementing a number of regulations in this pack, called a pack of three, which includes, for example, the following: Directive 72/2009, which includes that governments should ensure that there will be no subsidies, cross-remunerations are called, whatever this means, between transport, distribution and delivery activities. It just means that there will be no subsidies. In cold areas, for example, we use electricity today to help warm up the house. This Regulation is completely independent of the sea cable, which will be involved as soon as this package is approved here. There has been no answer to the effect it will have on those who use electricity to drive their houses. This is exactly what we experienced when a energy package was created. Then the government could not answer that question and thought that house - to - house power would not go up. Everything else happened during the day. I think we're in exactly the same steps, Mr. President, and we were in when we created a energy package one. The result was very bad, especially for the country's settlements and companies buying cheap electricity that was delivered at night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u433	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. He asks if it could be that the members of the council are out of the question. Of course, I am not the right person to answer that question, not at all. But for the panic that happened the other day, when it happened. paritaprevir The middle tribe, Ólafur Ísleifsson, asked where he could find this legal advance. In search of this legal advance, the people ran along the tunnel. And given the way answers were performed, you might think so too. The members of the government came up one by one, pointing out legal warnings, this one or the other, and before the day had passed, there were four possibilities, where that legal warning might be found. In view of this, you might ask yourself: " Is it possible that this legal agent is some form of verbism, as I have put it, a form of speech that is meant to dust people who don't want or have time to study? We have discussed this thoroughly but have not yet found the correct legal warning. If he is one of the things we have mentioned, we too have reasoned that such legal provisions, regardless of who he is, would not be such. So I want to give the management team full time to come and help us see this legal notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u434	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his word here. There's one thing I'm wondering about this case. It's that here we're trying to go through a case, even though we're only fighting, which is in opposition to the nation's majority opinion, about In this case, 626.3% of the people are opposed. Still, it is tried to get into people's neck language. I wondered what makes the government groups so interested in driving matters through the council in opposition to the majority of the nation's will. We do not want to be involved, so we are called evil names, and we are accused of filibusters because we do not want to take part in the protest that a case is being run here by the council to the plot at 62% of the population. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he understands why the governments, and natural Europeans, want to run this issue in opposition to the nation through the council, why they do not want to take time to consider the matter slightly in order to achieve even greater solidarity about it. I'd love to hear it either way. A senator has explained to me the factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u435	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for these questions. Of course, I have no answers to why. I guess the answer is, "Because"? And then again you ask, "Because only what?" Then you will get an answer, as the little children would say: Because it's just that. You see, there's not a lot of answers, it's right from what's going on. Senator. We find it obvious and supportable that it is obvious to take advantage of the European Economic Area Directive and to bring this matter back to the joint committee and try to obtain annuity as permitted in the regulations of 102. So obvious. They say it doesn't apply. Should not this not be an easy and simple provision? Aren't we understanding? In view of the proclamations of those nations, we seem to meet with understanding. Hv. According to surveys, this is in opposition to the people's will. Yes, it seems that this is in opposition to the voters of all categories, I believe, who represent in the Council. Yes, I think I've seen a survey there, that the matter is in opposition to the conclusions of Iceland's Independence Party and the Front Party. Convergences. It is in opposition to much more of all the reports received to the State Department when the matter was discussed there. Yes, they are opposed. The positive comments are mainly from institutions and energy companies and hosts most of which are owned by public property. Yeah, but that's only about 80% of the senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u436	Mr. President. So I'll grab the ball where it's at. A senator released him, too, in opposition to ASI's will, which is one of the largest mass organizations in Iceland. It is in opposition to the Organization of Garden Prayer. It's in opposition to the national union of a bakery. It is in opposition to both working classes and small companies. You still ask: What makes the government groups and group members want to drive this case at this rate, so hard, so badly done, through the council, with the result that if this case goes through here it's irreversible, except by things we may not completely care for and do not fully see for us? If and when we find out that this package is not suitable for us, is the only way out of the whole EEA deal? There's something I don't think anyone in here wants. At any rate, we don't want to. However, there are legal ways of success with the EEA Convention, i.e. rejection of the energy package and sending it into reconciliation with the European Commission, where it will have the necessary improvements so that it does not threaten the future security of the Icelandic nation. But that is not what they want to do. So I still wondered: " Why on earth are the government groups and group members so eager to introduce this energy package into a box at the majority of the nation's will?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u437	Mr. President. I thank you again. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the questions. I haven't made the answer to the question why it's like that. I haven't found out in that brief period since my talk. However, 80% of the country's members seem to be following this issue, even though I do not have a point about it. But it seems so. I have five envelopes from rural areas all over the country. Interestingly, in the report of the House of Dala, they persuade members of Congress to protect the nation's self - determination rights. In the review of Grimnes and Graffitiflips, they are simply abdicating the implementation of EU energy directives. In Sunamannze's application, they express a lot of doubt about the need for the induction of this energy directive. In the heading of the Literal Society of Tattoo, it is unanimously agreed, according to 9:0, that they want to make energy decisions in the hands of Icelanders. The review of the Blue Forest can help you to see serious indications and appeals to the government to exercise caution in this matter. Mr. President. If I read from the title of the Blue Forest Company: It is hard to believe that the Agency does not have the authority to desist from the approved Allegorium because of its induction and that it does not include the execution of decisions that result in an increase in electrical prices. The development of the development of energy and government power in the hands of the Icelanders is strongly emphasized by the development of the development of the development of the Blue Forest. On the part of the Blue Forest, it is strongly emphasised that domestic energy will be used for domestic production, but not exported as raw. The rural government finally feels that the processing of the total energy policy for Iceland is critical. It requires energy policy in consultation with the rural areas. The[u] is a very important community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u438	Mr. President. What brings me up in this session to discuss the President's conference board is news at around ten o'clock in which representatives of the council, in effect, have been shocked by the fact that we have taken the defence to the greater part of the Icelandic nation, who oppose the introduction of a three - pack of energy from the European Union and accuse us of filibusters. They now appear in one row and all claim to be a bright virgin and clean, never having done anything about it. In this group, during the last six years, the chairman of the council is one exception if I recall correctly. These people are here today, and they say they've never seen such language noises as we stand here, the middle class, in several cheers, and the defenses against most of the people in Iceland that are against this energy package. We've invited people over and asked them to interview us, and then they'll show up on the TV with this straight-up bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u439	Mr. President. I strongly agree with this, but it's indistinguishable that the members of the board who are trying to run this case would come up in this way and criticize us middle class members for having a filibuster, as they call it, in view of the fact that the same members of Parliament who are interviewed in this interview have certainly stood here in the U.S. Here we request answers to questions that have not been answered. We've requested a foreign minister. We've requested a environmental minister. We have requested the chairman of the State Department and other members of Parliaments to respond to claims made, and this has not been the case. I'm just saying, Mr. President, I'm amazed. According to this report on the Internet, members of the Parliament have made this statement just before 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u440	President. It's such a bad time. The members of the other party, the social security party, are hardly able to trust in the hall, let alone in a talk, let alone to support their case, rather hang in the kitchen, chat among themselves, do not observe the discussion but then jump into an interview with the digoretic statements, knowing nothing about what has been going on in the conference. That's bad, Mr. President. Now I encourage the president to try to get these people to come here and participate in the discussion, represent their case in this field, and do not hang in the kitchen, talking in the back office or in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u441	Mr. President. I have no concern that even if the executives and their enthusiasts in this case are in the press and complain that we are discussing this matter in the General Assembly chair. I believe that much new information has appeared in these last days, and the discussion has developed far beyond what it was for a few days ago. All I miss is that the officers of this case aren't here to answer and bring in what we're pointing at, so I'm directing it to the President. There are a number of points we've been pointing to that I've never heard before in the discussions on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u442	Mr. President. Lately popular has been more popular in the audience than members of other classes than the Central Party here in the hall. There has been a greater interest among the public in watching these discussions all night long than among other members of the council here. Senators are not the only ones in the kitchen, they're also in the garden of good food. They are everywhere but in the conference hall, and, as I say, they appear on television as if they never heard the talk. But this is not a saying we're defending ourselves. There was a suggestion from what happened. A senator's left-handed that perhaps it would be right to change the mood to prevent such a thing from happening again. It may well be wise to change the council for the next election to a good time in order to make a new assembly meaningful during the next term when left green becomes in a position of government. It may be wise, Mr. President, to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u443	Mr. President. This report was published about ten o'clock on the Internet reports that we were promoting a filibuster. I want to give special consideration to that as a boy. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir told about an interview. She says: At the Council, young people are puzzled. Then she's referring to the media class case. I must say, Mr. President, I wonder at those comments because I have just received encouragement from young people who are deeply concerned about running this case through, which could cause the electricity for house warming and to the public to go up considerably. Isn't that what young people are worried about, that it's expensive to live in Iceland? We enjoy today's inexpensive energy, and it could change with the induction of this energy package. I must say, Mr. President, that it is unlikely that members of Congress are acting this way, as it were. paritaprevir It's a Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Would it be true that the president took advantage of her coming to the Assembly Hall and answered questions and corrected her misinformation as shown in this interview? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u444	Mr. President. This is no more than a question asked by the supporters of this case to present their case, to argue for their stand. It is not to be asked more than to hear what causes the conversion of many members of the council. We have considered examples to show how some of them strongly reasoned that the introduction of a third energy package should be avoided, and this poses great dangers. Something led to this huff. Councilmen changed their minds and the highest. Ministers. All we ask is that they explain to us why to help us understand the matter better. But, no, they do not take so little time to present themselves here as a single talk. Rather, they stick to places other than jump into media microphones to talk about anything other than the content of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u445	The president wants to do everything he can to make comments. Senators. As long as he is doing his work here, the president has not been able to examine the latest news. The class is certainly open to all, and I think encouragement is given. Councilmen to others of that nature. senators who may have established a rosary have been well established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-23-109.u446	Mr. President. I'd like to begin by returning to this interview, which was with some members of the Parliament about ten o'clock online services and we were discussing in the President's conference board just now. It is important to correct the false information presented there. In this interview, I made a special decision that says why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of what she calls the tribunals of the Middle Class, harms the image of the Generals. I have to say, Mr. President, I don't understand that kind of saying anything like that. We are trying to shed light on the seriousness of this matter, which is the induction of EU energy directive, a so-called third energy package, a pack of regulations resulting in affecting the general population in the country. It is perfectly natural that this big, big, and big issue be discussed. We've been pointing to regulations that will affect the public in this country and have requested that ministers come here and answer questions that have not been answered. We have encouraged members of the council to join us in this discussion but, as it were, to participate in it. paritaprevir Here, Sæmundsson correctly mentioned, rather than participating in these upbuilding discussions, will benefit them from sitting in a coffee hall and talking there. As I mentioned, why? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir in this interview was damaged by our case. I think that what's damaging Aldulis's image today is clearly the fact that there's a problem going through without an adequate discussion and without knowing how it can affect the interests of the public in the country. We also saw this in the case of a recent so - called pregnancy crisis. It was run through the council without enough informed discussion, without anyone having much to say about it. A member of the council was denied the reinstatement of the committee in order to reconcile with certain parts that involved the week - to - week break of pregnancy. It was asked for more detailed and more informed discussion than we had not. The case was run through. If that case has had any effect, it has affected the image of the Generals. It is then stated here by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir to our informed compromise here, as we are trying to shed light on the seriousness of this case, damage the image of the Generals. I have to say, Mr. President, I'm impressed with this kind of compromise. It's just that it's not acceptable for members of Congress to put off these things. I think the main reason must be that they're just not really involved, that they didn't study it. I have, for example. ran a smaller talk on the implementation of Directive No. 72/2009, included in this package, specifically points out that it is related to the government's control, as it is said in this case - this is all very strange - to make sure that there are no cross-over payments between transport, distribution and delivery activities. This means that the ability of public partners to supply electricity will be reduced, e.g. to the colder regions. That is of vital importance in our rural and rural countries. I am convinced that many members of the Parliament have no idea how this Regulation works. That's where I want, for example. Quote words from each of them. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who moved here in January 2003, discussed a pack of energy one and two. That's where he says, by permission of a president: It seemed... there were votes here with this more and less sleeping, as it seemed.• I want to do those words now. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son of mine.
