ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 155, on the validation of the international energy contract, from Jón Þór Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u2	After the discussion, we will discuss the matter of 2,◯4. The program will include a brief meeting period for members to prepare votes, but after the votes on that matter, a new meeting will be set up and the cases taken up for the 3rd year. and payment if permitted. Then, at that meeting, we will continue with the subjects to which we will be on the schedule for the previous meeting today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u3	To answer, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u4	President. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. The trade mode minister is named for the type of cannabis powder used for industrial activity, cannabis sativa, which has very low levels of the active substance tetrahydrohydroceninol, which is better known as the TKC and therefore cannot be used as a drug source. The trees are made from the plant cannabis idca, but they are not discussed here. You can get permission in Iceland to grow industrial quality and make use of almost every product except the flowers. They contain the active substance cannaboliol, CBD, which is safe and does not cause substance use, but has proved to be incredibly effective in drugs and supplements. Industrial disaster does not require insecticidal and weeding, and it is only three to four months in order to achieve the development needed to destroy and exploit it. Industrial disaster is being used in ways that are extraordinaryly different, and it is made up of 25,000 different types of products. The first Levi's jeans were sewed out of canvas that was woven of a hammer and marketed for gold miners because of their persistence. Car producers today are using hammers for the production of internal and outer surfaces of automobiles, now the last Porsche. Efforts to produce biodisils from the ham will do well. Exploitation in Iceland at Cannabis sativa is promising. The development of industrial disasters and its use have positive effects on climate. Few if a number of plants capable of breeding bind carbon dioxide as fast as most industrial mode products replace other contaminating options, cliff albums instead of carbon fiber, and concrete. Even concrete spirits do not produce molds in houses built from concrete. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she sees an opportunity to look at how Iceland can acquire industrial quality and possibly form a special position in its processing, handling, and interpretation of raw materials. Does Ministers believe that there is reason to look at the legal and regulations environment with the aim of removing barriers and creating incentives to develop industrial disasters in more quantity in Iceland and produce products from that product?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u5	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. The senator's inquiry and the training. Like a snooze. Of course, a senator made a clear decision not to be a drug addict. There is a difference between industrial culture and cannabis culture for drug generation and substance use. The Hamp's only name is the Hamp, because it uses a hammer to make a rope and like a sledgehammer. A senator came in on e.g. Benz and BMW, when industrial hammers in isolation in their cars are successful. Hv. A senator asks if I am open to look around this law and order, production and opportunity, and, of course, I am very open to it. I readily acknowledge that I do not know the law and order so that I can stand here and answer whether it requires a special review and where, rather, is open to see if it is, I answer it both as a industrial minister and also as a new creation minister. If you open yourself up for some kind of manufacturing or other opportunity, I'm open to it. Today, for example, it is. experimenting in theifiers, where farmers try to produce industrial modes for the purpose of checking to find out if fiber plants can be produced from their home-circuits as the raw ingredient of the donor products and toys they produce. Thus, without a THC, it is something that I am open to study, and whether we can somehow adapt the system to make it easier for the production or other products that are available to people in this country to create valuables or to find ways to create more valuable or valuable things. Of course, I'm open to doing what I can to make it easier for me by being positive in the rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u6	President. It's great to hear, and thank you very much. Ministers very much for positive answers, and I think there's a lot of opportunities to stress the growth of this plant here. I'd like to encourage the highest. Government and supreme. Minister to set up some kind of partnership between the highest level. Marine and agricultural minister, health minister and innovation minister to reduce the barriers in order to initiate the production of industrial modes and to enhance its production. Such cooperation is important, and I understand that now the legal and regulations environment in a very gray area is in place, all of which, as it happens, under a few departments. The seeds of hammer are derived from medical oil, which is used throughout the world, and as a formula for paint and cosmetics. Oil is used for feeding, feeding in food, and in hammer milk, dried and crushed seeds are desirable in the backseat and as animal and bird feed, but there are barriers in this country when it comes to using CBD internally, i.e. may be used as an alternative. [[The president calls.]] It would be good if all of this were taken together in a complete way because, as I mentioned earlier, there is no substance in CBD or industrial disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u7	Mr. President. Thank you for the inquiry. Of course, I take it to myself, and I'm ready to see what you can do and watch the whole thing. It would also have to be considered with the local community and with other industrial stakeholders who have the case done and look to other countries and who learn from their experience before taking it further. Autism such as this does not contain any THC. In the United States, if the THC is below 0.3, the plant is legal and in Europe is of 0.2. I'm not going to tell you if it has any effect on the principle or on the barriers or obstacles today, i.e. the connection to the high. The prejudice or opinions that people may have on the drug should not be an obstacle to another use that has nothing to do with it. It matters, and I take it to see the whole thing and see if anything can be done better than it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u8	Mr. President. Last week, the council put in hand and in an unacceptable hurry two cases that the government wanted to drive through. They had recently come to their ears that unless they were supplied, Iceland would be in danger of landing in the so - called grey list of the international FAFFs because we did not meet the necessary conditions for the actions against terrorism and money control. All right. In spite of reports on the leading and implementing of the government, the Parliament supported these measures. Now, however, news is that there is not enough work to be done, that Iceland is still willing to go to this gray list, with tragic consequences for Iceland's Icelandic company, reputation, and generally for Icelandic homes. It's not our friends in the European Union who want to set us up like this, but special friends of the Independence Party from a series of Americans and British people who want to make an example of Iceland. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has any knowledge of the events, whether she has had any knowledge of this before this morning's news, and if so, whether she has informed the collaborators, I know that the council was not informed. I'm asking if the highest. A minister comes from the mountains, even thinking that the matter is wrong. We don't have much time to handle this. If we go to this gray list, if Britain and the United States have a prelude to put Iceland on this gray list, despite the support of the European Union, we are in a category of countries such as Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yemen, Iraq, and Uganda because some of our friends are willing to make an example of us. I'm interested in whether the Minister had any knowledge of this or what her knowledge of the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u9	Mr. President. First, whether or not we will be put on this so - called gray list. The decision is not yet available, so of course, I cannot stand here and determine whether or not we will be able to land on the list. That decision has simply not been made. If I'm supposed to appreciate how optimistic I am or a pessimizing whether we're gonna end up on him, it's just attached to all the work that's been done, the information that you have about the meetings that have taken place, and I can't tell you anything about it. The friends of the Independence Party, the Americans, and the British - what kind of language is this? Is the British and the Americans who don't say they're friends with repercussions? Reunion's a friend of the British and American, isn't it? All of a sudden, it's a shame for the Independence Party that the British and Americans are our friends in all kinds of contexts, commercial, political, etc.? I can't quite agree with that. It's not prepared to ask me, of course, but I'd like to know if. A senator knows that all European states are on our side that we are not put on this list. I don't have any information to say that all the EU countries are opposed to landing on that list. Of course you can, if we get on that list. Who believe that we have much in common with the countries listed on the list? What can you read about these countries making the decision to put Iceland in the list of countries there? Except for the general infrastructure we have in this country, we've had some operations since this sentence came up with 51 faults and we think we've fixed them all, and I'm going to have no reason to believe that we have anything on this gray list. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it's not our decision, and we'll be stuck with her, trying to figure out what it can do, and doing what we can to get off that list as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u10	Mr. President. This speech is highest. In fact, a minister raises more questions than she answers because it is just about a week since the conference was claimed that the cases pervaded by the council to free us from the danger that we were on the road to that gray list. I'm going to repeat my question: Has the highest. A minister of some information on what other matters are incomplete on the part of Iceland that arouses this interest in Britain and the United States to set up an example for us that we are going to a gray list because we have not been able to resist the financial resources and finance of terrorism? Is there a report on this issue that has not been identified by the Generals? Is there a report under some chair that might help you find more information? I have to say, based on morning news and the response of a minister here, there is every reason in my opinion for the Directorate-Counsel Board to call for all the evidence in this matter. We simply need more information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u11	Mr. President. First of all, it was claimed that if the two bills were approved, we would not be exposed to that gray list. I'm not gonna know those words. But that we agreed to these bills and that they would be the key to doing what we could not get on that list, that's what I recognize, and that's the fact. That's the way it is. It was vital to make these bills legal so that we could check the points we had left before deciding whether to go to this list or not. The only thing that can't be fully ignored is some system that we have to buy and buy, but its induction is not completed because it cannot be completed in a few days or weeks. It is timed exactly when it will be. This information is available to people who do this work and make that decision. Of course, it is reasonable to note that the Commission and monitoring committee examine all the information it considers important to investigate and obtain the information that can be provided. [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate it to answer the question, which I made twice in my previous reply, safely, that a decision has not been made. That's why I don't know if we're gonna get on this list. If we do, I have my opinion on whether we really belong on such a list.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u12	A respectable president. I'm sure no one has overlooked that there has been a measure of caution as to how the strong drug flows into the country. For example, over 35 pounds [35 kg] of unusually strong cocaine have been taken here. The police know a lot about the source of the material. It's clean, and it's strong that even the police believe we're getting material directly from the manufacturer. It is known of the Icelanders who work in South America to pay the streets of these chemicals into the country. But what is the position of law enforcement in the country? What are we doing to really resist? Yes, on page 18. The 203 budget bill shows that instead of promoting law enforcement, as the government class has talked about in the high Council, there is a reduction in funding for it by 403 billion. K. In total, budgetary funds are reduced for another country's protection by 487 million. K. This is a 27-point value. I want to go to the highest. Minister of Justice: Is she aware of the tremendous problem? If so, what are we really doing in the situation? As I see it, the situation is extremely serious and completely unacceptable. It's absolutely fundamental, and the citizens insist that this country is not a cautionary country but we are reasonably loyal to our law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. If you read the budget carefully, the economy is about 167 million. K. The total balance of the event, except for the cost of a previous deposit, can be calculated to a high 30 - year police work. This is a economy of 0.95%, but law - enforcement expenses have increased dramatically in recent years and are in the same price range by the year 2007 as the total number of over 17 billion each year. The law has been promoted in all things, including to deal with organized crime where specific 410 million were reported. K. in promoting the treatment of sexual fractures. There was a special coin set by the government. It is not in any way possible to say that there is an enormous cut - off operation by the local police. We're talking about 0.99, there's a way to set things up in all areas of society, and we're always doing better when it comes to police business and sponsoring all the available police through the extra funds that have gone to the seminary in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. Interestingly, the information I have on the table apart from that on the page. 203 in the budget bill, we got in from a BSRB visitor, no less or less than BSRB global economics, who came to the legal committee the other day and told us exactly what our recession was in law enforcement and what it would be in the value of many standards. I'm not gonna cross her about it. But if there is such a huge deal being done in law enforcement and other matters, why is the situation just the way it is? And I'm gonna ask you again: lsn't there any reason, chief? Minister of Justice, to do better, since we seem to be on a rapid decline in this regard in society and the situation has never been more serious?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u15	A respectable president. I guess. A senator is referring to the drug problem, says he has never been more serious, not ever before. I'm not sure it's true even if the situation isn't good enough. Besides, I'm not sure that the police's budget is the only thing that's needed. Although we have raised enormous funds to the police to deal with all the problems facing Icelandic society, it is not enough to look to the police because much of the problem and the biggest problem. A senator sees health, drugs, and so on. [[Not enough to do.]] [[35...]] - I got the word, what? Senator. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u17	We can do better with that group of subjects, as well as with everyone else, but I believe that it is taking an enormous step, no matter what the case, where the law is not on its own because it will not solve the problem of drugs alone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u18	Mr. President. Tells you the highest. Minister to prime what was being discussed last night, which is also the case. designed to master so-called small loan companies, go far enough? Will this bill have any real effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u19	Mr. President. I really appreciate a question, and I wish I could answer it with as much DNA as I can definitely not. The answer to the first question is: No, the bill alone does not do enough to control the environment and the problems associated with these loans, as there is a bill working in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and in other places for further attention. To the question of whether I really think it's an influence, the answer is clear: Yes, with the bill we'll question the right of consumers. We make it clear that in spite of a business leaving the country, there are laws in the United States and that they intend to be at the regularity involved. We're saying it won't. If an consumer in Iceland borrows such a loan, it will apply to Icelandic law. Not to be consumed, however, does not have to be paid above a head seat. Then, what we're working on is that the loan cannot be collected when it comes to making more than 50% of the annual cost of ratios. I've heard a lot of ideas about all kinds of ways to try to get a better grip on this environment. It is not healthy for those who lend these loans to get the most out of borrowing as soon as possible. That's not healthy. These loans are unreasonable, and they're bad. I have tried to find suggestions to implement any act that bites the law so that it stops paying itself to offer illegal loans. Then the system must be somehow so that it simply cannot charge illegal loans. No matter how much information the consumer receives about his position, that is not enough. In general, this is not enough, and in these cases it is not enough when we know that it is often difficult for people who look for those loans in despair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and rejoice that there is more work going on in the Ministry to get better at this. The reason I came up to this inquiry - that the minister called a nuclear cluster, probably for the few words in it, the question just didn't require more verbal coaches - is that last night, during the debate, there was a considerable detail in the fact that there was something missing, and then we have the reaction of Breki Karlsson, the head of the Nite Owl, who says the small loan companies were no doubt celebrating. Then Breki also says, and this is, I think, according to his word, "This bill won't do anything to stop the little loans in this country. " Nothing. That is an enormous expression. I have no doubt that the highest. A minister had the intent to obtain more than to do nothing. What's going on? Minister of these claims to Breki Karlsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u21	Mr. President. Regarding the Netothal Association's initial reaction to the bill, they disappoint me. We had a conversation with the Neythal Association, but I understand that they want to go a lot further. I'm just saying, the suggestions in these legislation have to do with illegal loans. These are the suggestions in the report of the group of work we list, the ones involved in illegal loans. This, of course, is bound to these laws. Other proposals, then included in another law that needs to be proposed, can also be carried out. I hear that they are talking a lot about the fees, and it's also a problem that has appeared since summer because it's like chasing a bad disease, just taking the next step and moving on, and it's going to work, and we're trying to control it. But we cannot take action that affects all of that environment; collection costs are collected all kinds of loans, legal loans, normal loans. We cannot go to some butt class that thus affects the general collection, and we need to examine it. It's just what we're doing, and it also requires cooperation with the Justice Department. [[The president calls.]] That's what counts with financial technology. As I've mentioned earlier, baloney innovation is going on there, and any action in this case can't cause it to choke down that innovation and block it, it's timely and it's important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u22	Mr. President. Nearly two years ago, the important interjugation period, the Court, took up operation. During all the time that has passed, there has been a shadow because of the order of a court order by a former justice minister of the Independence Party. Inland courts as well as the European Court of Human Rights have concluded a unanimous decision, that a minister has violated a law against a judge's orders. From March onward, from the European Court of Human Rights to the Court of Human Rights, where the decision was made by the National Court on the violation of Ministers, it also concluded that due to this, the judicial hearings could not be guaranteed by fair judicial hearings, the Court has made a rocky way to the Minister of Justice for the needed increase in the number of judges to the court. The absence of the four judges from a total of 15 judges to the court is not a minor matter, but unfortunately, I seem to be at the highest level. A minister of justice was far from aware of the extent to which this activity was disturbed. In each case of the National Court, three judges have to be served, a court of appeals, and so there has been a situation that the former Justice Minister of Independence leaves behind in the National Court, irreversibly affecting a number of people. But the highest. The Minister of Justice is not willing to answer the court. By the end of the year, two go outside because of the two judges who agreed to go on leave on account of the situation, but nothing is heard from the highest court. Minister. So I would like to ask the minister of Justice: Is it not good for the Independence Party to get in the way of the good work of courts in the land? It's not part of the responsibility of the highest. Ministers to ensure that the judicial system is functioning in a natural way and the inhabitants of the land enjoy the righteous court treatment for judgment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u23	A respectable president. What a shame to talk about our resolve to stand in the way of the well - being of the courts! In case of a moment. A senator would have taken a close look at the matter, knowing that there are 13 judges working at the National Court, 13 judges who were previously 15 and always thought that one would be on leave to study and that they would usually be 14. It is difficult to claim that the judgment is somehow inaccessible or that it does not carry out all its important tasks, for it does. I've had a meeting with the National Court and the Court to review the situation, I've got numbers, and I'm waiting for even more specific talks about how things are going and how they're developing in the court and how they're holding them. It was also that when these laws were made, 15 judges had no number that was specifically studied for the purpose of being the perfect number. I'm looking at this in line with the figures of how the Supreme Court works and how he went before the National Court came to, how the situation has improved and changed, and I'll evaluate it all before I make other decisions. Above all, it is important that the National Court operates well, has a good plan until the end of the year, and we perform 13 judges.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u24	Mr. President. I'm sorry to be the highest. Minister of Justice sees his role so lightly. It is not a fool to talk about the fact that the Court is lame when all these judges are missing. It is surprising, a respectable president, that in the discussions and leading up to the establishment of the National Court, even 18 judges were spoken of as being held as judges. I've heard from inside the system that it was said that it was necessary to have 18, but it was decided to keep 15 for saving. At present, there are 13, 11 each year, and there is a need to say that there are now a lot of people who are concerned about the situation, including Chairman of the Court. Last week, High Court judge Benedikt Bogason appeared in the press and spoke of the fact that there was nothing to report from the Ministry to the highest level. Ministers come here and talk about some bullshit when the people working in the system express a lot of anxiety, I'm told. The minister of justice is not aware of the seriousness of the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u25	A respectable president. I'm gonna pray. A senator doesn't put words in my mouth and say that I talk about nonsense when we talk about national affairs. I told you, there's talk to it. A senator claimed that it was the intention of the Independence Party to prevent the national rights from working properly. It's nonsense. I have received information and talk to Benedikt Bogason, president of the Court, and, of course, most important is that the court operates properly and naturally, that there be order and that will be successful. There are 13 judges at work, and I'm waiting for numbers, as I said before. Of course, talking about emptiness in such matters is not proper because the situation is being considered and evaluated. It must also go slowly before you make great changes when things work out well because there are other advantages, such as continuing to appoint judges for those who are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u26	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Commission's members for a bill to correct measures for British discharge from the European Union and the European Economic Area. The Commission has discussed the matter, and as we know that in these halls, the planned exits of Britain from the European Union have had a contemporaneous effect. Now it is time for Britain's eviction to be delayed to October 31nd. and the clear stand taken by Britain's government is that Britain should leave the European Union that day. The National Committee considers it important to enable the European Commission to deal with different scenarios and to consider that the bill on this topic is an important step in the way in which the British exits the European Union and the European Economic Areas are being carried out. The bill suggests the necessary changes to the law due to the implementation of contracts between Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Britain as a result of Britain's resignation from the European Union. The implementation of the contract calls for changes in the laws of foreigners, the legal rights of foreigners, the law on law and residence, the terms of stock trade and financial law. There is a preliminary law in the laws on foreigners and the legal rights of foreigners in the Member States. In the treatment of the case, it was important to change the bill in order to implement a political agreement on the rights of citizens who move between Iceland and United Kingdom after Bgret, i.e. after the exit date. In view of government exchange in Britain, the agreement with Britain was not completed in time for the collection of the bill. Hv. The State Department agrees that it is important to ensure these rights of citizens after Britain's espionage and suggest that we add a foreign law to one provision temporarily in addition to the one already found in Article 5. The bill that holds the rights of British citizens and of those who intend to come to this country and stay for a longer period than permitted according to 49 st. The law. The committee received an explanation of the arrangement given by the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Justice, as shown in committees distributed to members of Congress. It says that in some cases British citizens and their citizens may already have the right to live in this country in accordance with the law and to maintain their rights in accordance with other laws. This principle is thought of for those who do not have such rights and is placed on the basis of a mutual agreement with Britain, which takes effect so that Britain will leave the European Union without a contract that is most likely to exist, as the situation has been in the last few weeks and months. Here, however, it must be noted that British citizens are at the same time authorized to apply for a temporary permit according to other criteria of foreigners. It is also obligatory that those British citizens who come to the country and want to stay longer than can be granted to have a living permit, also have to apply for residence on the basis of the provision, and is expected to be 18 by the end of 2020. 3 mg. The law of the law stipulates the right of citizens of Britain to apply for residence permits, i.e. Residents of British citizens who have been granted entitlement on the basis of the law. Other paragraphs stipulate the terms and rights that can be read in the committee's opinion. Such provisions should be based on agreements between countries following British discharge from the European Union. This too involves changing the law on the legal rights of foreigners. The Foreign Affairs Commission suggests that on the basis of a provisional statute which will be added to the alien law, the citizens of Britain and the recipients of those allowed to stay on the land will be excluded. This is an important provision proposed in the light of a political agreement between Iceland and Britain. Also came the dog. State Department comments and tips from the Ministry of Justice that involve property and legal rights. It says that it is important to ensure that Britain's eviction from the European Union is not restricted to the rights of those who have already acquired real estate in this country. The Act on real estate rights and rights stipulates the rights of those on the basis of the EEA Treaty to own a home in this country without the permission of the Minister of Justice, although they do not meet the criteria for Icelandic citizen rights or to have a legal home in Iceland according to the rules it holds. When a change in the law was made in 1993 to allow EU citizens to own property in this country without permission, changes in 8 paragraph were not made. The law, not taking a stand to see if that change called for such a change. It is likely that by going out of the European Union and the EEA, the individual will be affected by the loss of the conditions he has built his right to possess property on the land. There is a delay in applying permission to the Ministry of Justice for the continuation of property. It cannot be seen that such requests would be rejected, and thus they take away their possessions. In the treatment of the case, Britain's government has confirmed that there is no limit to the real estate rights of the Icelandic citizen in Britain after an EU discharge, even if there is no way out of the contract. In view of these decisions by Britain's government, it is a suggestion. In view of the mutual agreement to suggest the change that is intended to ensure that the British must not leave the property rights of those on the grounds of the EU Convention have already owned real estate here. In fact, these two mutual views are the main theme of the changes proposed by the Committee as well as the decision of the British government. Regarding lawyers, there was also a reason. The Justice Department committee to ensure that it is important to ensure that lawyers who have registered to a local county member under the title ◯advocate or аbarrister and who have granted legal services in this country will be permitted to continue working as such and apply for Icelandic legal rights. This article explains why it is necessary to make such a special statement and to suggest a adjustment in an effort to explain it further. Not many lawyers in this country work under their British home title. According to local authorities it's only one lawyer, but the British have set up a law set up on the basis of EU regulations and, including the Icelandic lawyers. Until the end of 2020, they have the opportunity to acquire British legal rights and to work for their home country in Britain. It is also a mutual principle that the committee agrees with and suggests a change in the bill intended to perform the rights of British lawyers in Iceland, comparable to the rights that the Icelandic legislatures will enjoy in Britain. Hv. The State Department suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes proposed by the Committee in a special Senate document. Under this, everyone writes a column. The members of the State Department, however, are three. General members of the committee's general concern, huh? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and a what. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson. A greater proportion of the committee is proposed to agree with these proposals so that we can agree with a bill to take measures to correct the development of Britain from the European Union and the European Economic Areas, which is approaching an exit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u27	President. I thank the member of the Committee's Department for a detailed and good talk on this complex matter. There is much to think about when it comes to rights and trying to make mistakes, pits, and pits that could be dealt with when these matters are resolved. However, we recently noted that treaties were reached, that the British and the European Union had reached contracts. The British prime minister encourages his minister to accept the agreement. In fact, it's interesting to just encourage the Ministers. No doubt more encouragement is needed. The European Union was also encouraged to agree. It's gonna be interesting to see the details on him. What does the new agreement between the British and the European Union look like? What are the changes from the previous agreement? We who observe politics are eager to see, and likely many more, businessmen, and others. It's a pleasure, if it's true, that a deal has been made and that it will be more pleasant to accept both sides of the channel. It will help a great deal. We still focus on a time period, a so - called adjustment period, that is discussed in the bill. In a sense, the person the Central Party does something about it turns toward the adjustment period. While it is true that, of course, the Commission's priority is general, it is also specific to the extent that we should give a warning and comment on the continuation of real estate purchases during the lead-in period. I don't know if they'll be tested if they'll have to be kept outside, if they're going to happen. To be honest, we do not make any adjustments in that situation, and I think that it would have caused the matter to get complicated at the last minute to do so. Nevertheless, we have a warning that during the month or during the period of adaptation, property, including countries, will continue to be permitted to be purchased. However, we have a clear understanding of this, and it is only natural that the purchases that have continued to violate values. It would be highly unnatural for us and irresponsible to make some decisions that would invalidate money back into the time it was then valid for certain laws and rules. Such things would not be proper for us. We place great emphasis on having good relations with foreign countries, and that is actually a basis for Iceland. For an island in the Atlantic, international and international communication are of utmost importance. That's why we can't let this sort of thing work over and over, but it could have been a chance to take the lead-in period out of parentheses. According to that, we will support this matter. We'll keep these advance notices in place. It's very important that they come out. For my part, I believe the agreement here for discussion is fine, taking into account the principal issue that has been discussed, but I want to keep it up. President. I think it is also important that the Council, at least a State Department, soon responds from the State Department to the new news this morning about the agreement and that once the Ministry has had the chance to dive into the contract and see if there is anything that affects what we're doing here, if we're going to change anything else, etc. Mr. President. I'll finish this. I just want to make sure that the media does the real estate thing during the lead-in period.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u28	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you to Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörður's daughter for her talk, but she was very comfortable with the commission and the key questions that arose in our head. State Department. I have to admit that when this bill came in, I thought, " Well, can we finally stop talking about Bgret? But I guess there's no chance there's anything going on. No doubt, we will again call for ministers and officials to comply with the contract that the latest news indicates was made, provided that he will be approved. In the bill that is available here and in the opinion of the committee, we are ensuring the rights of our citizens primarily and a measure of mutuality. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson only introduced our real estate purchases, and we discussed them a little on the committee. This is primarily about mutuality, that the British citizens will have here the rights that are available to Icelandic citizens in the United Kingdom. That was actually the foundation of the bill and the political agreement that became reality between Icelandic and British politicians. I'm also going to let myself say that Bgret's adventures have been a story about how not to do things. I'm not gonna have an opinion as to whether the British are right about leaving the European Union or not, but at least... was decided to vote for it. The result is clear. It has, in effect, been tragic to observe the progress following that vote. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. Foreign Affairs Committee visited, e.g. Britain last year and there we spoke with British senators and also with Scottish. I must admit that I have much more sympathy for the Scottish, since they had recently received a vote for Scotland's independence. Then part of wanting to stay in Great Britain was part of the European Union. The requirement for the Scots fell in general to not want to leave the European Union. As a result, I have a lot of compassion for Scottish senators in these matters, but maybe a little smaller with the British I thought it would be a bit like headless chickens following themselves and unable to carry out what had come out of the national payment it was decided to be. I have no doubt that this will be recorded in many books and will be able to learn many things. I really hope, though, that they're borrowing something now, that they're now going out with a contract, and yet we've already guaranteed these rights for a certain period of time. I also think it is very important that the discussion made clear in the case of both British senators and officials that there is no desire to close the country or to stop contact with Icelanders, rather than anyone else. We have tremendous interest in Britain. We move a lot of fish to Britain, and we've always done so, as well as tourism and flying is a major industry that connects us. I also thank the Minister and the Ministry for the way these matters have been conducted. We have been repeatedly informed about this in the State Department of State. My energy lies with government officials, who have attended several times just to tell about the situation, and then the situation might only change at night when a discussion occurred in the British Parliament. It's something like this case has been. As I say, I'm sorry, we won't be able to stop talking about Bgret. I'm sure it'll be back in the Foreign Affairs Committee soon, and I assume we'll call for what this deal looks like now, hopefully, possibly, will be approved. The Bgret's adventure continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u29	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee on Environment and Transport. 283 with a bill-changing proposal to legalize practical building of high-speed exchange networks. The committee has discussed the matter at the present assembly, but perhaps even more time on the case during the last legislature, 149th Parliament, they met a number of visitors, as indicated in a accompanying document. During the current council, the commission was contacted by representatives from the Department of Transport and Department of Communication and Transport. The committee received reviews from the Contestant Control, Based Agency, Data Central Office, Milan, Cooperative Systems of Energy and Services, and Visions. The bill suggests that there will be a new set of measures to be adopted for the practical development of high - speed exchange networks, which include the 2014/61/ESB legislation for reducing the costs of building on high-speed electronic networks, introduced into Icelandic rights. As mentioned earlier, the bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature and the only material change it made for this year's donation. The name of the committee is relatively short, and I'm going to review its main points. This is a very important issue, a bill in 15 articles, and if it becomes legal, it can have a very positive effect on the development of communications networks and cooperation in the development of infrastructure. In the treatment of the matter, the comment was largely related to the definition of the concept of material infrastructure, i.e. whether or not it would be possible to strike down a so - called black fiber - optic fiber. A black fiber optic is a fiber optic that's not in use. The Commission called for further information from the Ministry specifically asking for information on whether such a change in the bill was included in the scope of the directive for the Member States to be introduced. The Ministry's position was clear that it was not correct or allowed to expand the comment of a material structure so that it covered a black fiber. The Ministry sent various data to the Commission on the subject, a memo and other matters requiring the expansion of the explanation in this respect would violate the direct wording of the directive, its aims, and the EU laws on communication. Among other things, it would be proper to assume that this was the way against the telecommunications code called a regular action involved in the introduction of a full reexamination of all the rules of telecommunication. In view of this discussion, the Commission has concluded that the bill will be passed on in this respect, i.e. that a black fiber optic will not be rendered under explanation. According to the Commission, it may be practical to open up more sources for the integration of black cables, but there were conflicting views as to whether it could enhance or hinder competition. It was then noted that in the coming years, innovation in public and telecommunications service would be the focus of innovation in a net service linked to fiber optics. In this light the Commission wants to direct it to the Ministry for the work now carried out in the introduction of the Communication Enforcement and to review communication that the scope of the integration and cooperation of any kind will be used through practical and competitive guidance, to protect the conditions of the directive. The requirements mentioned in the Directive may warrant the use of co-administration in some cases, but not in the general population. The Commission considers the bill's provision to be greatly improved, but this helps to further improve the coordination of existing infrastructure and coordination of projects which should lead to faster development of high-speed replacement networks. The committee suggests several technological changes that are not meant to have material influence. They're being made aware of in the Senate paper, and I'm not going to review any of the changes here. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with these changes. Under the committee, Director Bergþór Ólason writes president, Lowika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðjónna Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason and Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. Several members of the council were absent from the case but signed as indicated at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders for the Council of the Council, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Jón Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason. A member of the Committee to Re-Elect Leví Gunnarsson is in agreement with this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u30	Mr. President. The EFTA countries have had over three years to take measures due to the impact of British exits from the European Union and the treaties are in it very well. This allows for a three-year lead-in period during which the majority of the EU Convention's terms are maintained. Icelandic citizens living in Britain enjoy the same rights as before, and the law is mutual. It is amazing, however, that in the three years since the British approved exit, the Allied Council had not been better informed about the progress of negotiations. Improvements came from the Justice Department at the last minute. I must commend the Norwegians for giving these negotiations on behalf of the EFTA states. Although it is difficult to see all the opportunities as Ministers of State, it has repeatedly declared that British passage from the European Union is a defense that ensures the sale of sea products and rights of Iceland in Britain to three years of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u31	President. We learned this morning that the British and the European Union seem to have reached an agreement or an outing contract. This does not change our concern for our interests. An adjustment period, so called, takes 36 months. We in the Central Party have a warning in this case. Foremostly, in the agreement or in all of this, Britain is expected to continue buying property and land in Iceland during the lead-in period. It would have been desirable to leave that behind, but I realize that it might have been reversed. Our principal concern is that property has not been excluded. We understand, however, that the things purchased under the current law cannot be taken away from men. So we'll pay this matter our votes all the way, but we'll be doing this in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u32	Mr. President. In principle, I could give an excellent explanation of why. Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir. The Conspiracy is in this case in advance. We'll vote it, but the defence has to do with practice, how late things come in, and even at the last minute. It sucks that we have to deal with this, but we know the prehistory that the British feel that they are incompatible with other European countries in the European Union. I think that's very bad news. I think that mankind is on the brink that there are no other ways to counter the threat of climate change, war, poverty, and other major projects than the fact that we stand together. We need to respond, but they decide what they will do. We'll vote for it, but on our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u33	A respectable president. We vote for a bill, and it's a matter of ensuring Iceland's interest in the news that Britain is leaving the European Union. I'm all in favor of this bill, and I can hear as much as everyone will vote for it, because the whole committee is on the committee's opinion, despite some being there in advance. I must strongly object that these negotiations have been misinvolved and that the situation has not been fully informed. The meetings that have been held in the Foreign Affairs Committee on this issue have become endless. In fact, I think it is in writing an answer to some senator. Officials and Ministers have repeatedly visited the State Department to instruct us about what is taking place in the Ministry and the whole administration. It was clear that we were going to do this with the Norwegians and Liechtensteins, and it's been fine, and we're here with a great deal. Unfortunately, however, we continue to discuss the Bgreit case because we don't know how it ends, with or without a contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-20.u34	President. I have supported all the civil rights being granted in this case, and I am well - equipped that they are inside. On the other hand, there are teams that are involved in the stock exchange laws and financial laws. I don't know what they can mean. We are extending a contract that we have made with a state on the basis of the EEA Convention, a state in the EU and now going out. I don't know what this means for Icelandic interests when it comes to stock trades and financial companies and I'm not taking responsibility for it. So I'm sitting by.
