ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u1	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a resolution of the release of the Court's judges and documents in Iceland to celebrate the anniversary of the Supreme Court's high court. The parties to the proposal are prime committees, and representatives on the Presidency Committee are behind it as well. The suggestions are as follows, by permission of the president: The Council concludes on the anniversary of the 2020 Supreme Court to assign its president to cooperate with the National Library of Iceland and the History Association on the publication of the Court's Justices and Documents in Iceland. The Parliament agrees to support the publication financially by about 10 million. K. Each year for the next 10 years Iceland's Supreme Court will be as expected from the 100 next year, 2020. On January 1, 1920, birthdays may be based on enforcing a law on the Supreme Court, or the first judicial hearing held on February 16, 1920. The court is founded on the 1918 issue of which we had last year, but according to them, Iceland obtained the right to bring to him the highest court authority of the country once held at Denmark's Supreme Court in Copenhagen for a long time. The establishment of Iceland's Supreme Court, a law determined by the General Assembly, was a major event in the history of independence and followed directly by the establishment of the sovereign. In view of the historic role played by the Allied Council itself in the history of the history of the country, it is closer than the Council to commemorate the birthday of the Supreme Court. That's how it was from the beginning, like the cot. The members of the council are uncertainly aware that both laws were passed and passed on by the council, and in the course of time, the main work of the General Assembly was actually done in the course of centuries. This suggests that the Council supports the publication of the Supreme Court and the documents of the Supreme Court, which served at the Council of the Council during the year 1563 psalmist1800. This publication will fill into the picture of Iceland's legal history and will make up for the existing and existing wastes. The Supreme Court judges have been issued from the beginning, since 1920, and a narrative has issued the courts of the National Supreme Court of Iceland's Supreme Court in the year 1800-1920. Then, in cooperation with National Archives and with grants from the Council, Iceland's Allied Books have been published from 1570 ◯1800, which are at the base of the World Council of the Old. The plans have long been made to issue judgments and documents of the Supreme Court. In fact, plans for such things began right away in 1991, but it was not until 20 years later that the first volume of the Court's judgments was published, and then the General Assembly was in cooperation with the History and National Archives, as is now being reassigned. It would be very good, Mr. President, to finish this project that is a great and ambitious, link it to the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court, as you suggest, but at the end of the next 10 years, so that at the end of the Council's 1100th anniversary, the work will be completed. So it can be said, in effect, that this project can be linked to the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court and the planned 1100th anniversary of the General Assembly, which I expect to have someone celebrate something. There is much basic work to be done, the work being done in the leading of the first volume. It will follow the same scientific practice as we did then, i.e. to produce the first volume of the documents. It is expected that this will be an additional eight volumes of what has been brought in with the reviews and documents, followed by the tenth and final volume of the terms. Hopefully, the first volume can be published in 2021 or 2022 if the preparation begins immediately in the next year. Then this should be achieved, based on the work programme and the budget being implemented and is behind the suggestion to spend 10 million. K. Each year, in the year 2030 or even a year earlier. This is a large task, since each volume is expected to be about 500,700 pages. Of course, this will also be available according to the latest technology and will be useful publications, both those who want to learn rights at this time and who are familiar with the national legal history, but it is as much a century's mirror as you can read about the situation. So are the reviews, as did the reviews, the record of what was being done in those days in national life. There are circumstances described, arguments presented for the court's position, and decisions so that these documents are, as well as outright rights, rights of mind, perspectives, circumstances, class distinctions, transportation, farming, and much more. Not all of the data down there are preserved in one location, so there are many other places to look for prisoners. They were preserved by the country's high office officials of their time, and they were in museums at the headman, aman, and a stiftamtman of any time, and are now preserved in several archives, mainly in Iceland's National Archives, the Founding of the Year Magnús in Icelandic Studies and National Library. Mr. President. I welcome the solidarity that took note of some of the talks of the presiding committee on the move of this case. I believe that it is a very good idea to celebrate the birthday of the Supreme Court in this way and that it is also a pleasure to see that the general council with whom a great story is involved is acting in this way. I suggest that after this discussion, the case will be referred to a second issue. but I'll make it difficult, Mr. President, because I hadn't thought exactly what committee should have the privilege of receiving this matter. But I suppose it's the most natural thing to do, to be a global and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u2	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of road law, No. 80/2007, but the change means that there will be a square route in the law in a manner similar to that of a highway, i.e. National transportation routes, as I have chosen to call them. The bill has been submitted twice before, first at Council 148, but it did not succeed, but in 149 it went to committees and went on a story tour but was not paid any further. This appears for the third time in the form alone, except for minor additions to a report. I've got six others with me on the case. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isafas, and Árnason the Aarnson, of whom there are a total of five members of the South. Mr. President. In 1st. the bill is expected to change 2 mg. Section 8. To add a new letter, e-joint, as follows: ▪ Transporter transport pathways are part of the basic transport network as defined in the specific transport programme. A national transport channel is considered to be a means by which a ferry replaces a road-to-line network and connects the regions of the land that are surrounded by the sea's infrastructure of transport on the continent. Two. the bill is expected to change 1 mg. Twenty-two. A phrase that follows: The transport programme shall set up budgets for the costs of transport transport transport transporting people and automobiles as a national transport service. It is also permitted to set the budget for the expenses of transport costs. Finally, 3rd. it was assumed that the law would be obtained when it came to approval of them at the council. Mr. President. The relative's not used to the vow. This has been a subject for many years in the Western Islands. Two years ago, I made it a promise that if I got to the place where I am now, it would be one of my first jobs to present a bill with the subject, i.e. that the bus route to Eyja would be defined as a highway. For years transportation has been under way to the Western Islands. Western islands have high positions of transportation, and they evaluate that it is the government's role to ensure good and easy transport at a reasonable level the same as the public is the result of a common road system operating, rejection, and flight selection. The transport problems facing the Western Islands and other settlements must be solved. At present, there are four islands around the year, Home Island in the West, Gímey on the Island of Eyjafjörður, Flatey on the Brefue, and Hisney in the Eyanna. All these islands are marching, but there is a lack of service clearance on these trajectories, such as the frequency of the voyages and the design of the ships used on the seaways, in view of the fact that this is often the only amount of transportation available to people on these islands to travel to the continent. The objective of the bill is that certain processes fall under the definition of road shape because of their special status. It is suggested that national transport routes be added to the definition of highway law. Under that new definition, there is a process of trajectory that connects islands to the basic roads of the country. Mr. President. In the case of 4904/2007, the Allegorate's agent discussed a complaint about payment on the use of military trajectory, which sailed from Western to Pacific, as well as the rise of Iceland's Eimship Society on the budget of the ferry at the beginning of 2007. So it was. According to Herlf, a highway in the sense of road law was considered to be the case. An agent made it even. that the conclusion that transporters would not be defined as highways, not according to current road laws or earlier roads, would not be put under that term. In addition, an agent felt that neither the laws of the older road law nor the current law would be dictated that the Council had considered the State's duty to operating on squares in the same way as building and maintaining highways. So many were words. An agent noted that Shepherds played an important role in transport between the Western Islands and other parts of the country and had the role to some extent similar to the role that roads would have in general in transport here. In spite of that word, it became in the opinion of an agent that the matter alone did not lead to a reputable principle of road law that the ferry would be viewed as a highway between the Western Islands and the country in the sense of road law. Bent agent, including. that a clearer view of those related to them would be taken on the 22nd staging road project. A road proposal for a ferry operation. It would be this way to protect the interests of citizens who used the ministry at any given time. It is also stated in the opinion of a 2007 agent that he had dealings with the Ministry of State at the time. It states that the Ministry's position agrees with an agent's view of the need for review of the proposed road law and that this would be guided by the next revision of road law. However, because of much further developments in the Ministry, there would not have been enough time for that review. That was 2007. There was no time for a review at that time. Since then, 12 years have passed. Still hasn't had time to do that, and that's why, Mr. President, is urgent that this case comes first. In view of the conclusion of the WHO agent, the assessment of the bill's Shippings is that it is important to make necessary adjustments in road laws to make clear the intent of the legislatator that certain squares fall under the definition of highways according to road laws, although known as national transport routes, does not end up in any way. The review of the road transport and environment committee at the last Parliament revealed that it would be the right of the legislature to change in basic existing management arrangements would be the assessment of road transport to better achieve the goal of changing the focus of transport plans, change of transport policy laws, or with a new holistic legislation on the establishment of the state of public transport or management. Transporters insist that if the bill is accepted, transport and rural administration should take into account their changing the focus on transport that would change the process of transport. It's so simple, Mr. President, in 2 gr. The bill is addressed to this situation, for in 22rd paragraph. It is only said that funding is permitted to be decided on the ferry, but the change assumes that it is no longer permitted but that it is obliged to make a budget for transport costs. Mr. President. In 2017, a thorough service analysis was performed for the Western Islands and the Department of Transport and Transport at the University of Akureyri Research Center. It shows that the need for mobility is increasing and that people want to be able to cross between country and island with minimal notice and maximum travel rate. A significant point is that people go up to the mainland to obtain service, work, and recreation. No one needs to wonder. In addition, a number of companies trust in transport between the country and the Eyjans, such as transport of the fish industry and commercial fish products. For them it is important not to delay this move. It also shows that safe ferrying is important for parties in tourism, which is obvious to each person. It can be assumed that all those views apply equally to the inhabitants of other islands around the land that this law, or adjustment, takes place. In the above analysis, section 4.1 discusses highways between the country and the island. suggested that the road prepares for a special service party when ferry routes are defined as highways. The inhabitants of the country are taking special precautions to ensure that safe transport for and from homes is ensured by the government by the state's success of operating on squares on designated national transport routes in road roads. Their frequency of transportation and service levels will be defined as the government does by other means of highway transport in the country's highway system. In this way they will have the obligation to keep open all defined national routes in the country by means of the travel rate and the level of service most reasonable in each case and acceptable to inhabitants of the islands in exactly the same way that is done in the road system itself. Mr. President. In handling the case of the last council, 149th Council, there were four reviews made to the Environment and Transport Committee. Despite the fact that the bill has not received further treatment at that council, I intend to review these comments a little. I've mentioned the review of Vega's making, and I'm going to take the tip of the Western Islands. In his review, the town council agrees that it is important to make adjustments in road law to make clear that certain routes of transportation fall under the definition of highways according to road law. A Western island thus shows that in view of a special status and landy Western island, the assessment of the town council is important that national transport routes are defined as a basis for transport and that, under the definition, there will be a process of transport by transporting countries based on the basic network, as suggested in the bill, and that in a transport plan, a budget should be established because of the costs of transport services as national transport routes to people and automobiles. The Eyjafjörður Eyjafjörður and Þingar County (Eysteries Council) reviews the importance of the addition of national transport routes to the definition of highway laws and, under the definition, a series of square pathways linking the islands to the infrastructure of the country. In its heading, smokehlapprey points to the importance of national transport routes being added to road laws and to the definition of the fall of square pathways that link inhabited islands to national infrastructure. All these settlements, the Western Islands, the Smokeholashfjords, and the Eystery live under the very circumstances where a ferry enters an island in the area that is part of some of these rural communities. This service is a major concern to the inhabitants of the rural population that I have mentioned before, in the island of Eyjafjörður, on the Braiðjordur, and then on the South Coast, i.e. Home Island. Mr. President. I've concluded my subject on the bill, and I certainly hope it goes further this time than before, receive professional publicity on the environment and transport committee, be sought out, and the bill is due to the second. At the council. Transporters come from both anti-regional and administrative categories, so parapolitic solidarities seem to be about correcting the baits, which are very good in the opinion of the Generals agent that the need to be corrected. The Ministry agrees with the word of an agent who says that the time has not been won to change the situation as it would have been in 2007. It's been 12 years, and it's still the same. I think it's time, Mr. President, for us to get to the bottom of this matter. To this end, I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion by the Environment and Transport Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u3	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. paritaprevir Gauti Göta Hjaltason for an outstanding enforestation of this national language. His tour was such that it is not too much for her to add. He discussed the matter in detail. It's been done before, but it's got all the merits to get, like the cot. 1st Transporter spoke for, thorough and grammatical treatment and payment at the General Assembly. I am very proud to be among the couriers of this case, which may not be the least of the island's necessities for living under safe and easy transportation. The bill, however, has far more extensive appeals. 1st He was very specific in his historical history. It is, and for a long time, it has been a great struggle and interest for the Aegeans to live with safe and stable sea transport and air transport. This struggle has taken quite a long time, and it has proved to be very effective. But better if adequate, and to that end, this bill is targeted. Here is a new term, the concept of national transport. This is a new recommendation, a new introduction to transport discussion, a new term and defined as this, by permission of presidents: ▪ Transporter transport pathways are part of the basic transport network as defined in the specific transport programme. A national transport channel is considered to be a means by which a ferry replaces a road-to-line network and connects the regions of the land that are surrounded by the sea's infrastructure of transport on the continent. This bill has been calling for the whole country. It is set in motion that the matter is involved not only in Western transport problems but also in other countries around the country. They are listed in the report. At present, the four islands around the year are located, Home Island in the Western Islands, Gímey on the Island of Eyjafjörður, Flatey on the Bountiður, and Hisney on the Eyanna. According to one report, the Western Islands have a high priority in transport, which is, in particular, in terms of increasing transport, and in the evaluation of the carriers that it is the role of the public to ensure that safe, reasonable transport will be exactly the same as the public is the means of operating a joint road system all over the country, rejection, and flight selection. The report explains that the objective of the bill is that certain processes, so detailed, fall under the definition of highway laws because of their special status. It suggests that national transport routes, so you can uphold this new concept in transport, which will not be separated from transport discussions after this bill has been seen today, will be added to the definition of highways. Under this new definition, there is a process of trajectory that connects islands to the basic roads of the country. A 1st messenger has taken on this big preparatory work, as was clearly seen from his frontnote address earlier. The matter came to a committee during the last council, and then there were excellent reviews. 1st Transporter made a good impression. It is important that this issue be discussed in detail. The inhabitants of the country are taking special precautions to ensure that safe transport for and from homes is ensured by the government by the state's success of operating on squares on designated national transport routes in road roads. Their frequency of transportation and service levels will be defined as the government does by other means of highway transport in the country's highway system. This will give them the obligation to keep open to all defined national routes in the country. Mr. President. I hope this case is treated and accepted. Like what? A 1st messenger could handle this issue from various political parties and from a series of governments and political oppositions. I reiterate my wishes that this case will have a good and clear passage through the high Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u4	Mr. President. I thank Karl Gauti Hjaltason very much for his careful review of the case. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson, who spoke before me. As we have seen, there is a new concept, a national policy system, a good concept that I believe is self-explained. We are talking about transport to the Western Islands, Flatey in Brefjordur,resey in Eyjafjörður, and Gímey from where, as far as the U.S.A. is known, the latest reports indicate that there is now a great need for society to feel that transportation there is possible because it is likely the best opportunity there to be added for tourism. Then there's a way to the place I think we're calling a national transwarrant route. It's on the ground. It is crucial that the areas around the country are covered with the basics of the individual population, for no core can be trusted to survive if the outdoors fall. This is also a transnational case, considering that this is so important to the cohesors of the bill and that it is so important to the inhabitants of these settlements. Hence, it is urgent that the case be made successful and positive at the Council, for it is well prepared, and it is not to be made to the point of hiking in the traditional way of the matter that must go to the General Assembly. I reiterate what happened earlier, it's solidarity, and we need to protect the outside if the core is to be held.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen who spoke in their discussions about the national transport business so much for their introductions. I believe there are many precious things that have been done there. They even spoke. That this was a matter of dwelling, and that I agree my mind with it. Especially with regard to recent reports from Grimney outside the island, there is a need to use every means necessary to strengthen such islands, to keep them safe from destruction. This is one of the methods in which the State's obligation to take care of these processes. I'm pointing at a 22nd floor. the current road layer, which says, by permission of the President: It is permitted to set budgets for transport costs for transporting people and automobiles. It is permitted to decide, there is no obligation at all, as was shown in the opinion of the emissary of the Generalist. It is a bait of the law to be corrected, and in the bill that we now address, the wording is changed from being permitted simply in a transport program to set up a budget for the costs of these victories, the obligation of the government to care for these shipping, that it is permitted not only to be allowed but to be required, to an island built. There's four of them. It should be mandatory, just as the government is obliged to keep road routes to the remotest settlements. A service plan is set on how often to shovel, how often to clear snow, etc., whether it is three times a week, twice or after an incident, depending on the level of service defined for the affected area. It depends on the population, the level of employment and the need, which, of course, needs to be defined in each case. It's important to do this for Gímney, Flatey on Breamfjordur, Hisney, and, of course, the largest settlementd island on the land, Home Island. It's important to do this, and thank you. Congress members for having contributed to this discussion. I would also like to point out that these transverse organizations include groups ranging from the left to the green, to the Independence Party, and the case is very supportive among members of the Parliament, especially in the Southern District, since, of course, most people live in an island that does not have to do with the country. This is true, however, of the outstanding things where islands are also. I'm happy to see how well this situation is handled, and hopefully it's a clue to what should follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u6	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for measures in behalf of smaller companies. The movers are members of the United States Group. Then we hope that the members of another group will agree. That's the way the Conspiracy proposal is like this: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers and tourism, industrial and innovation ministers from preconceiving and implementing measures to support specifically the growth and development of smaller companies and promoting innovation and knowledge industry in the country. One of the priorities of the Group of Congress today at the beginning of the Parliament is the support of microsurgents with ten and fewer employees and small companies with between 11 and 49 employees. These companies are the backwaters of the Icelandic community, i.e. Business life. The actions we make are seven. First, we propose faster reductions in insurance costs to small companies and micro enterprises and business favors for smaller companies. Second, the roof of reimbursement to enterprises due to innovation and development will be removed completely. Third, tax laws will be changed to promote investments in innovation companies. Fourth, to speed up and reduce costs without affecting the right goals of lawmakers, the simplified and online services will be increased. Fifth, that further tax incentives will be investigated to strengthen growing companies within the imagination industry. 6th, the ever-growing sector of the economy will be reorganized to improve its ability and ability to develop and innovation and, at the latest, to focus on increasing technical and industrial education, creative education, and re-education. Mr. President. The contribution of smaller enterprises to GDP is considerable. These companies provide a wide range of services, create jobs, and are the means of pioneers, since they have the flexibility to adapt more rapidly to the changing circumstances than larger companies are inclined to. They support larger enterprises in ecosystems in various areas of employment. Besides, they're powerful all over the country. They are relatively large in the capital area, but they are also strong in the region, and they are, in effect, the lifeblood of the people living there. Every small village needs its own carpenter, its baker, its accountant, etc. You see, these are often companies who are and always become small. These are companies that people make primarily to provide close - up services, and they like to create themselves and their own citizens. Although they are not planning to expand, they are still a burden in Icelandic society. Often the decisions made in this room are considered by the interests of larger companies, even the largest. There are daily activities related to specific activities, specific companies, large sectors. On the other hand, it seems that far too little is thought of by little. Of course, the measures that transporters stress here are useful to mediums and large companies, but this experiment is trying to figure out the needs of smaller companies because they seem to have fewer lawsuits in this room during the council. We should think small first. Small companies are the driving force of creation, and they tend to spring around innovations, but they often face challenges that are less difficult for larger companies. Therefore, the salary of an enterprise has been estimated to be at the level of a ninth person. It is normal for companies to pay their share of the state funds so that the welfare system and services can be financed, but the special support measures for SMEs are widely recognized and very common in the countries we compare with. In fact, experience abroad has shown that such wills eventually lead to more tax returns. We simply have to provide more variety of support to commercial life in Iceland. We need to look to the future more closely and to support more fully our business with intelligent, not just originals. Ideas in the software industry such as biotechnology, design, software, films, TV and video games, art, and the international sector. We suggest measures that, in particular, strengthen the position of such enterprises, make it possible to improve and maintain and/or increase staff, grow and thrive. Thus, we create well paid jobs throughout the country, jobs I am sure that young people are as excited as we are about the traditional production work that we have so far may have built too much on. But then the surgery itself. The government expects a general reduction in insurance costs by 0.25 percentage points in 2020, but we stress going further and reducing the cost more and faster for micro- and small companies. So we propose an insurance payment for the smaller companies, the members of the Parliament's resolution proposal, down by 1 percentage in 2020. In Iceland, the environment of law and order is complex, and it has little to do with smaller business modules. On the other hand, rules are very important, for this is intended to increase the well - being of society, economic and social. For law and order to produce the desired result, it must be made clear and simple. Overcrowding, burdensome, or costly rules can be inhibitory and even lead to unhealthy business life. There is evidence that regulations for pioneers are even more complex in Iceland than in many other places. For example, if you start a business, you need someone to work with. is eager to apply for permission from many sources. Exceptionally, you can apply for permission in one place. Nor can there be any information on the requirements that companies need to meet in order to start their work. In addition, we suggest that we fulfill promises of additional digital services. All services regarding an enterprise's organisation and business are presented digitally as far as possible. It is also important to improve and reorganize economic systems. There is much experience, knowledge, service, and even capital, but the system is all too complex, even divided, and access to information is not enough. Then there is our proposal for abdicating roof on reimbursement for research and innovation, which would contribute to greater wealth development in the country, help build up a powerful intelligence industry, and promote all innovations. The roof would have positive effects on growing companies of all sizes. Iceland is now at the bottom of the list of nations in OECD, using a reimbursement method to support research and development projects and the triple-up of the upcoming maximum dose will simply push the dose to change that image. It is suggested that local tax incentives have introduced to support growing companies within the imagination industry. Many European countries have adopted taxes that are especially designed to strengthen specific sectors. In the United States there are examples for reimbursement of the cost of making films and making music, but companies who design video games or do other arts should also be able to obtain comparable reimbursement on the basis of the cost of development, for example. Communicating requires interaction to include all creative articles in one project. One of the major problems that small innovation companies face is a poor access to funds. This needs to create a setting where pioneers with good ideas have access to investors with good access to capitalism and vice versa. More often than not, it is necessary for governments to provide special incentive for investments in small new companies. Thus, we contribute to a tax charge for special funds, professional investors and/or individuals who contribute to their share, reduce risks, and contribute to increased investments. Such luminaries were in effect in the long administration of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, while the movers are covering the government with a search for ways to restore the European reinvigorates and intended to support small innovation companies. Of course, it would be desirable for these companies to live with a constant currency that would increase their management security considerably but a substantial part of many of these innovation companies, which would like to increase in foreign currency but mostly pay in Icelandic dollars and, in fact, far too little to discuss this unfortunate connection here at the council Hall. They can often determine whether companies will be able to work for long periods of time, but these are the companies that we most need in the future. If we are to succeed and have the means to deal with future challenges, we must also build up for these companies and preach a big educational campaign. I'm sorry, but I feel like a pot broken and the big offense is more in word than on table, at least ... inthelaws. To enhance the intelligence and use this one resource, which is not merely inexhaustible but that it grows as it is done, you need a much more variety of school activities that confront students, not their weaknesses, but their strengths. There is a clear access to expert employees, one of the basic needs of intelligent company mobility. In the context of innovation, the proportion of individuals who have been educated in the field of science or technology, also referred to as STEM, is generally considered by the permission of presidents, Science, Technology, Noreating and Mathematics. Compared to other European countries, Iceland sits far behind in the country, but only 16% of the higher universities have STEM degrees. A recent reference has also been made to so - called STEAM degrees, which also have educated people in creative fields. There probably is something we should stress. Whether a person chooses to work in the arts, he or she will be at least A great deal of benefit in promoting creationism. Therefore, I say that although transporters are concerned with the minister of education and culture in industrial and technical studies, there is much better to do. The Minister's operations are missing, e.g. entirely this third foundation I was talking about earlier, i.e. creative articles. It is clear now that when we are in the middle of a fourth industrial revolution, the most desirable quality of every individual and society becomes the gift of creation. Unlike what people are tempted to think, creativity is not a quality that only comes from certain articles, usually associated with art. Creation is, in fact, a prerequisite for any approach, whether you are an accountant, a poet, an engineer, or anything else. That is why we must start putting more emphasis on it. Mr. President. Finally, I hope that the Senate will respond well to this proposal. Everyone must be able to say that these are necessary actions. So just wonder what this small two, three, four, five - man business is doing all over the country for our country and living in this vast, small country. It would be virtually impossible to live in Thorsfare, Redfaring, Bolungarvík, Hellu, or other places if there weren't some hardworking people who actually serve in close - time, and most people don't make any more demands than just being able to feed themselves and their family.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u7	A respectable president. We're discussing a Senate arrangement for action in behalf of smaller companies, and in many respects I'm overwhelmed by this proposal. This may be the main subject of software companies and such. My last job before I arrived at the council was in a small company on the 25th century C.E. There I looked at it, the last year I was working there, how the small business was squeezed, and they were simply driven away, or they just gave up and quit. It is a strange phenomenon. I made a special trip to the Lazy Road the other day so that I could drive up the dry road. That tells us the whole story because I remember all the time, a man's been running down the dry road, but this was the first time I could drive up it. So round like this, like it's been there, it's not good for a small company. I'm asking why. A senator does not agree with me that things are not quite right when we have such rules and laws that we drive a good business that has been up to 90 or 100 years away because we make it impossible for them to work. It is almost impossible to share the good news or any other form of service. Do we not need to take a good look at this and make sure that the situation of these enterprises is not affected in one way or another? That's what I'm talking about. A senator wouldn't agree with me that this is a problem we have to solve?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u8	Mr. President. The reason I make this arrangement for the synonym is because I want these companies to be offered better employment conditions. I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator was on the road. Of course, having an opinion of it or at least that does not mean that it is not in our realm. not to represent the organizational authorities in each group, if that is what he means. What we may be primarily dealing with here is e.g. There's a curse on this company. I've talked to a lot of people in preparation for the proposal, both in growing innovation companies but also in hairdressers, carpenters, plumbers, bakers, people who run laundry, and all kinds of companies. What defines a business like this, and it likes the ones who are driven by intelligence, is that it's almost just a bill of pay and housing. The insurance bill is particularly heavy on such companies, with 80% of total activities paid for, while large fishing companies may have pay expenses of their activities. In particular, the insurance bill has become a burden on smaller companies. I've focused on the action the lawgiver has in his power to legalize and subject to taxes, to the motivations and crazy complexity of order.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for the answer. Of course, I realize that we do not have authority over the projects of a community, but as I say, often you think, " If we as the lawgiver are helping a company to work at a certain point on a particular basis, it is a big challenge when others put a stone in the street of that company. ' There should be some form of consultation and conversational action. Certain companies thrive at specific sites, and there is no need to ask the end of the game if the person cannot be there. We know how many small companies there were in this small area downtown, but most of them are gone. Right now, it's just restaurants, saloons and tempers. Somehow, we need to make sure that we agree with our communities that they are not putting a stone in the streets of these companies. I agree that we have to do something, and we need to improve the environment and we'll be careful not to be taxing these companies. But we also need to make sure that they can stay where they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u10	Mr. President. Yeah, stay in place. One intelligent person once said that if there were aliens and they looked to the earth, they would have no particular interest in man as an individual or as a species. They would be interested in cities, since they usually have far more characteristics of an advanced intelligence than are individuals. Citys change and evolve, and I remember the first time I came to Reykjavík, where a child was a carpet camp and a paint shop at the Sat 25 - year - old, and when I arrived as a teenager, I hurried past the Council 'cause she was extremely dangerous, thought of a man, looked bad, and was depressed. I think a lot of what Reykjavík has been doing to move the city into today has built a good foundation for a very large number of people to run thriving businesses. Let us not forget that the saloons and restaurants and gardens are also small companies that may be hard - pressed and may be feeding themselves and their family and employees. I think that's just an option, of course. I wouldn't want to come to London and fall into the stage of Dickens' books. It's just fine that the cities are changing and making progress, and I think that's happening here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u11	A respectable president. We're discussing a synopsis proposal to engage in small corporations made up of the United Nations. I agree with her completely, but I'd like to say that I'm completely up to one street where you get into Dickens. I'm sure there'd be a lot of trouble. That's why we should have variety. What I would like to discuss is a software company and company with movies, TV, design, and other things in the context of the fact that we've proposed a bill to allow microsurgents to work, to create jobs, to go out and work, and not to be cutting them out. Give them two years of opportunity to build up. I know there are many creative people, and they can do things if they get to do them on their terms. We've seen it both in software industry and in movies and in all kinds. They can do things. But there's always been a chair for the door. I also agree on the insurance bill, it's supposed to make the environment good for all of them. But then we also need to consider that our school system, which is so built up that if you're a genius in one field - a genius in making a film, a genius on a computer - you can't learn only when you're at a certain age. If you go to college, you have to get out of the school system so that you can go to the private sector to learn only the relevant profession, filmmaking, software. I know this from my own experience, I studied filmmaking and also studied on a computer, and it was in separate places. It's gonna cost you a lot of money. What I would like to do is build a school system so that young boys and girls who only want to learn something about it can go straight to higher education in that subject, have nothing to do with geography or learning Danish, but learn only on their terms. The person says, " I just want to study computers or English, and I just get them. ' They will be built up by that interest and will try to find out exactly where they are interested. Then comes a suggestion based on the fact that the foundation will be available for these individuals when they come out with creative ideas and determination to act on them - they can start a business and start working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and there are things he can say. I'm not going to ask you a direct question but more of a response to his speech, and he just sees if he answers me, and I'll answer him again and again, and then I'll have nothing to do with it. But I think it's important that we rethink the school system. There is a possibility that we do not live in a world where 24 - year - olds can walk out of school in their fancy suits and wave a license and carry a faithful job all their life. The growth of knowledge and technology is so fast that we will likely have to be learning for the rest of our lives, and then I think it would be important in the beginning not to squeeze too much. We need some basic knowledge. We need to know the language, the math, and we have to know things, so I'll pay attention to them. But I think we should try to add much more emphasis to creative thinking. I know it only myself when I was at school - and I know it's still that way - that many people look at handwork, illustrated, creative writing as a kind of father to those who don't like to chew or to pool. So change is needed, and we must definitely face young children and adolescents with the strengths, be diligent about what they want to do. But I think creative kids who are interested in movies or computers, writing, whatever, can use the traditional ones to get close to their dream and become reality. So I think it's just a combination of both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, creative kids can do this, but we know there are certain groups of people with dyslexia or dyslexia who have difficulty with the letter, but these same individuals, e.g. in computer studies, films, and all kinds of art. It is not natural to force these individuals to learn something that they really cannot do because of dyslexia or writing blindness. They should be able to concentrate accurately on their abilities without driving them to the thresholds. I believe that these individuals could thrive if they had an opportunity to do so without having to make a huge effort to learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u14	Mr. President. Yeah, I don't think we're really far from each other in it. What I mean is that I think that everyone will benefit from a good, general, varied education but will then face children with their strengths and will not allow them to suffer inadequacies or difficulties in certain areas. I am, for example. ... witha great industrialist in my house who had trouble getting the master's test because he didn't get the Danish. Sometimes we're more Catholic than the Pope. We're not supposed to let these things stop us, not make them stop talented people. We may also be a little inclined to look at things as a problem. I remember a few years ago when I read an article from a teacher who was working with a kid with attentionlessness, and she was fascinated by their creative nature. She changed that word to ◯multithousands. This will immediately result in a positive outcome, reflecting on how they think rather than on what limitations their thinking may have. I think it's just the key. It is better for the education system to dare and allow renewal in mind giving all children equal opportunities. We are a small country, we are a small nation, and we need all the hands of a river so we can sail the sails so well into the future, and we should be guided by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u15	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Senator. He mentioned the Danish, and then I remembered that when I was in my trade school in Reykjavík. There we were studying Danish. I studied wood industry. Someone thought of taking a Danish book to teach us, and it was for a university student named Dani about the history of industry in Denmark. It was a Danish teacher who taught us this, and what I remember is that either word did not understand. Those were technical words. As a result, we had to take a test in this, and the average score was 3.5. It took 3 to make it. It told us how the system can make us cry. But as I say, I just agree that we should focus on everyone's abilities so that they can, but so on: We need to have a sponsoric system. We need to strengthen when we see highly talented individuals so that they can initiate their ideas. We are, for example. I'm in with LIN. There, money builds up in roughs because nobody wants to take a student's loan. But now we need to think about and strengthen ourselves, find positive ideas, and strengthen them so that all can make their point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u16	A respectable president. Short, simple, but extremely important. This bill has been submitted several times, at 143, 146., 148., and 149. The objective of the bill is to explain and enhance the capacity of rural society to promote civil meetings and to keep local elections on individual matters. In 1st. 108. g. It is stated that if at least 10% of those who have the right to vote in a local society wish for a civil meeting if a government should deal with it as soon as possible. Two. 108. g. it is stated that 20% of the country's country's votes can be called for a unique vote. Then the country's partner is obliged to fulfill that request no later than a year after the wish. The minimum percentages per law are allowed to set a higher proportion in the management of rural society, although not more than one third of those having the right to vote. A- team 1st. However, the bill is suggested that a rural government be permitted to reduce the proportion of rural society by campaign rights required for a civil conference. Transporters do not see reason to restrict the right of rural society in order to help with the right of citizens for a civil meeting. It is therefore suggested that the paragraph be added to the requirement that a rural government be allowed to set a lower proportion in the approved administration of rural society. B-jords 1st. The bill is suggested that rural governments be allowed to reduce the proportion of rural society by election rights required to impose the terms of individual causes, but the law states that the proportion should be to a minimum of 20%. However, rural governments are authorized to increase the rate, which is quite high at first, although it should never be more than one third of the voters. In comment, we're at 108. g. The bill that became rural law states that no government forbids any wish for a citizen's election, even if the population's lower proportion puts it. Thus, rural governments in themselves have the authority to grant wish, although fewer signatures are passed than 20% of the community's voters. Why, then, does this change need to be done? Yes, such a decision depends on a particular community government at a time, so it could, for example, be used as a possibility. agreed one wish, but rejected another, even though the same number of signatures were behind each and neither one depended on the limit given in 3 mg. 108. g. The law that they fulfill both laws and regulations in other respects. It would also be highly appreciated how such wishes would be supplied, which would lead to uncertainty in the signing of libraries. They might, for example. the question of being able to collect the signatures of 20% of citizens with a vote in the countryside because the rural society is limited or consists of a number of scattered settlements or, in fact, just a very large number. It's very difficult to collect signatures, it's just a long way from being easy; 20% minimum is a very high threshold. In such a situation, readers could, in effect, not know in advance how to arrange for the collection of signatures themselves, and would be particularly uncomfortable if the regulations of law and order were to be difficult for some part of the collection, in view of a signing collector. It is important for those who intend to gather signatures in advance to know how the collection should be performed and what the consequences are of reaching a given number, even if it does not exceed the 20% limit. It's not the least 4. 108. g. The law of the law requiring regulations for further implementation of the procedure for the collection of signatures. Let us see, then, that it is not always lawyers who collect signatures. Reading through all regulations and laws, etc. is far from easy and simple. There's some information that you'd think the ministry and rural groups would have to meet, and there's an example of this. In Smokejanestown, a collection of signatures on continued major activities in Helga was reached, with a minimum of one quarter, signatures on 25% of the voters, but no re-election was made because of its mismanagement of some regulations, etc. However, those who were collecting the signatures had come to the local government to start by looking for direction, whether it was not reasonable to perform in this way or in the other, but the local government did not indicate any obvious regulations or legal defects in the implementation of the signature. Afterward, she took advantage of it and said: "No, it's not supposed to be this way. However, it is authorized to interpret a collection of signatures, although the ratio is below 20%, to be with it. In view of this, it is suggested that the word be replaced by a ◯ higher proportion to the 2nd issue. 108. g. Let the words of the law come to you. As a result of this change, the legal environment of the signatures and potential local elections will be more extensive and clearer, choosing the management of rural society to lower the proportion. Also, the assessment of transporters is that such expressions are more likely to indicate that 20% of the target is the default but not the actual minimum. It generates certain democratic environmental possibilities in the countryside, just their decision, e.g. When it comes to elections. This is something we'd like to adapt to during a new term period, the way the packs set up the population set up with regard to this possibility. It is important that the country government's options for terms of decision-making in individual cases are very clear and explain to anyone who reads the law, whether in the administration of a community or its inhabitants, since not all its citizens are lawyers and should not, of course, be forced to do so. Farmers themselves have costs of enforcing and meeting citizens, so they are not expected to result in an increase in financial expenditures, just to be clear about that. In the larger context of the case, this week's General Assembly was introduced to a country society objective program. It contains a requirement, e.g. ... witha greater democracy. It is a specific goal of growing democracy. This case is definitely something that needs to be taken into account there, and I think it is very important that there is a special decision on the matter of participation regardless of what is being done in local policy areas, because this is one factor for the closer community, the rural communities themselves, and their inhabitants can affect the value of the share ratio when it comes to direct democratic issues, e.g. it's a big deal. It's like making a civil meeting or taking a yurture all the way. Of course, there are other aspects of the conversation. But having this court of speech and initiative is an enormously conservative device for the population of the community, especially because we are not at that spot in the rural community that it is being announced for the election in the middle of an elected period, there is no such thing. More important than that, if the people's interest in democracies is not taken, it is that there is a better explanation for the potential for the people of the U.S. The movers are the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, the first apostle, who, unfortunately, is not present at the moment, so that I replace him as a second carrier, and Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Þór Jónsson, Smári Mccarthy and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdosdótir. I hope so, especially following a general policy and higher democratic requirement in the community that followed, for example, The demand for a new constitution, for the court of paint there, for a certain court of speech at the council instead of perfunctory, that we only begin to gear ourselves in the right direction in this regard. Here we give the people of the community the opportunity to set this thing off only by themselves if a percentage has been determined in an approved rural administration. If this is approved, if the population reaches 20%, they can call for a collection of signatures if the government is going to raise the maximum. They may also call for elections to decrease the limit, from 20% to any proportion. Now most societies have it in 20%, so it takes 20% to call down it. We can trace some examples of how our signatures have been successful. The latest issue is expected to be the energy package where 10% of the target was not reached in the Control Board bill. Ten percent is a lot. 20% is enormous. There was an incident recently in the New Year's City, where there was very little remember that there was 20% getting there. That's the example from Smokejanestown, where we reached a quarter, but nothing happened. These are definitely issues that we need to deal with and do well and do better. I hope it's a good deal to get paid here at council, finally, because this is the fifth time it's been submitted. I think it's totally obvious. This lets go of some of the films. We could use it if we're serious about growing confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u17	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his interesting presentation. This is exciting. But I would like to ask, "Did the senator study the work that the European Union's member is doing to increase the population democracy in the rural areas? ' It's been a long time to get the population, just like this in general, to the general work the locals are dealing with. But when something big happens, as one senator talked about about smokingtown, it is good for people to promote their views and to be taken into account. However, such general publicisation rates are very variable in size and size, and good participation, e.g., has been very difficult in many places. ... ina townmate. The first question is, "Have a reason." Councilmen study the activities of the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u18	A respectable president. Only in connection with the case that's coming in to a democracy assembly, related the aims of developing groups' policies, I've studied it, and the password there was often shown in inquiries. One of the objectives of the synopsis is to increase the total portion to the bone of democracy. It's great to be stressed, because getting more and better conversation is the most important part of the pure democracy. It's really hard to get involved. It's always been. We know this too in political activities. It is not likely that volunteers will be present or eager to attend a meeting. It's not likely at all. But this point in particular, it's about helping the other end that I haven't seen any emphasis to be put on so far. The difference between the two points has been made after proposal and the conversation in terms of decision making, but not with the precautionary effects of the court or the initiative. In this respect, I really feel that this bill is perfect for the process that has been under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u19	I thank the senator for the answer. It's interesting, and I'm sure it's just a good thing to take this thing now as a group policy is going on and watching this cell phone, because, of course, this whole thing needs to be discussed. It's not enough to just say "A" but not "B" and become interesting to see what comes out of this work, both in this case and in local policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine bill and for the rest of it, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear. The people's party is completely involved in promoting democracy. We need to make it absolutely clear that in the elections, not too few people are in control of everything. We here at the High Council now make a pretty big, big decision for the entire population, and that is, in force, more than part of the council, not perhaps the people's will. This is clearly a factor in the ability of the citizens to take a more active part at least They do not recognize that there are only a few persons, often seven people in the town government, perhaps even fewer, and that is then divided into four individuals, three individuals, who simply have everything to say. I'm fully supporting this bill. It's a good thing we're doing it, and I believe those who are working on a improved constitution, where we're going, for example. to put extra emphasis on direct democracy, to keep this under your control. I'm saying this in particular, since we may be able to say that this bill doesn't need a lot of dollars, you know? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u21	A respectable president. This is a provision, a means to ensure that initiatives can be taken to call people to the carpet, to the town administration, or to something similar as a civil conference, or to a direct vote. That's the end of the bone of democracy. But direct democracy is so much more. If all the other parts of democracy are in good shape, if the conversation, the consultation, and all the parts are fine, the initiative or the hand brake, such as this proposal, would provide two systems, one of calling out to the town meetings and, on the other, the final endpoint. Having a town meeting that takes the initiative increases the conversation. If that is not all right, it is definitely necessary to intervene. I believe we need necessary and at all levels of the administration system, especially here at the General Assembly and in terms of the government, to get more such tools. Ironically, the legal and initiative of rural citizens to local governments can be applied rather than to lawsuits or to national rights to the government at the General Assembly or to the government. I think it's ironic that we give the people of this country a partner - and I like it -- initiative, not the people in general, to ourselves, the right. So I look forward to having a bigger conversation where we take longer and more steps toward outright democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. What I have perhaps most likely been looking at when I look at the matter is the irreverent independence guaranteed by the local government in its constitution. How far can we go in general legislation to change this? Of course, the Ministers of Internal Affairs, if necessary, have access to local administrations, but it is extremely rare for ministers to blend in with the local government. It's the only thing I've been wondering about this, whether or not we have the authority to intervene in the government's rights for their independence. It's the only doubt. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he has examined that surface or if I am just missing the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u23	A respectable president. No, no, no. Senator, this is just a very good question. Well, that's what needs to be made clear. I believe that the present arrangement is an inhibitor of the democracies of a community where there is a minimum of 10% and a minimum of 20% in the population election. What this does is allowing the rural governments themselves to have a lower threshold if they vote and/or their citizens choose it. This gives them more independence, so this was exactly a good question in order to say it as clearly as possible: This certainly increases the independence of rural governments. So I just wanted to say thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u24	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the change in rural government law, local elections on special matters, Pirata's case. I'm just here to support this. I'm all for it. It is a simple democracy, and we are to contribute as much as we can to preserve the precious democracy. We are inclined to take it for granted, but it is not self - righteous. We'll just see it somewhere else in the world. I'm sure it's far from there. I kind of agree that 10% is a high percentage. If we can think of a company of 20,000, there's 10% 2,000 people. It can be damn hard to get 200, let alone 2,000. If we were in Reykjavík, we would be talking 20,000 or more. We ourselves know that when we're going to an election, we need to collect a certain number of signatures, and for little categories, it's just a big deal in itself. That's why I say, "The 10% threshold"? If it was the threshold, I think there were very few classes in this council. So I'll support this whole mind, and hopefully it'll go through. Then democracy will prevail. I'd love to, for example. as with civil councils and other factors, it would also be very easy to put such things through because it is often needed and sometimes absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up this minimum and how loud it is. When we in the political parties take us in, we collect together a total of 3,300,4400 signatures. Nothing has been particularly easy at all. 2,000 signatures are more than that in a rural society of 20,000 people. People often fail to realize this because we have many reports and past examples of the collections of thousands of signatures and tens of thousands of signatures. 87,000 reminds me, e.g. that was a number of signatures in Kári Stefánsson's collection. But when you start to count it together, there are many more and very few of them. If there's something we could do -- and I think it should even be done with the constitution's provisions for about a 10% share -- we should even start there but the households, similar to this bill, a certain distance to turn down, give more right, not increase the ratio to the level to the level to which it is possible to down. Because we might find ourselves in regret of a few attempts that it's just too difficult to hit a minimum. I'm so afraid there's definitely supposed to be some barriers. But who they are, we just have nothing on rhythms right now. This may also vary from generation to generation. The next generation can be very active in collecting signatures and that there will be only part of a changed spell that we are not necessarily in the schedule right now. That this figure is a little more flexible I think it would be nice to have something to say about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. Consider, for example, 200 civilian meetings. It's just a nice meeting. Not by default. It's a city meeting that's filling out High School football isn't the preferred thing. It may not be possible to do so. Then maybe we're talking about 2,200 to 5,500 people. But by the time we're in the country, we're talking about 20,000. It's astroologically far between here and there. That's why I say we should have this number much lower in order for democracy to succeed, and therefore it would be only the best case if we could agree on a number, just that such a conversation would be conducted with such an audience of 2,200,300. That would be kind of the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u27	A respectable president. There are some places with a limited number, with a certain number, not a ratio. There is something that you might consider, too. It reminds me that the White House has a million signatures in a country of 350 million people. Or are they even 100,000? I don't have it in front of me, and I'm afraid to say it. But I have seen much lower the first barriers to ask for information, to ask for a meeting, a conversation, and finally to ask for a vote. This process I think we both need to establish better initiative opportunities and to practice it regularly. We learn from practicing it; we learn nothing from doing nothing. It's just that way. If we change this or the other way, we can use a number of caution words. But what happens is that we learn from it, adapt. Let's do it better next time. We can't do better next time if we don't do anything. I think it's a key point in this regard, to create the possibility of making the conversation better, to make democracy better. That is a key to achieving better results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is, I think we're actually in a strange place because if we start thinking about it, we're actually gonna have to split it by population. If we take only 200 people, we're 10% out of 20 people, 1% of them would be two. But if we're over 20,000 people, we have 2,000. And one percent of it's 200. So there's a lot more trouble with getting this out. So I'd ask who. A senator whether he agrees that this is where we have to aim for a particular number. How many would that have to be? I wouldn't say a percent, but we just have to have numbers on how many people are needed for a specific size of rural society. I think it would be very good for democracy and all the easier it would be and the more discussion that will become, the better and the more enlightened the relevant individuals in these rural communities. Often, it is forgotten that the population needs to be enlightened much better. That's why I think getting this thing going would be the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the prime minister and the carriers for this bill they put here and now just want to come up here for a moment to describe their interest in giving the population more opportunities to have a direct effect. As the original - language word exactly spoke of is e.g. Sets a role for maintenance that it can play if it is not very difficult to make a vote. This requires more careful action for those in charge. There's been a lot of thought about this than here, and it's interesting to read the ideas that are called thewisdom of the crows, or flocksvik. The collective wisdom of people from different directions usually leads to a very good conclusion, perhaps the best results. It's very interesting, that I think, that we're going to take these steps. This is, from what I think, a cautious step, and not a dangerous step, and I hope that it will receive Congress, and then there will be comments and objections, if they are. I suggest this goes through here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt interest in the wisdom of the masses, which is a good entry into this discussion. It's so interesting with the wisdom of the masses that it's a little tricky. It matters how you use it. In basics, the average wisdom of many is wisdom. That is basic to the wisdom of the masses. But in a larger context of the mass knowledge and thinking of the masses, which, in a sense, are part of the wisdom of the masses, they are talking to others for more ideas, other views come to the fore. It makes us not missing out on things that I don't feel are obvious, but it makes us feel that someone else is obvious. If we keep the discussion in a very closed group, we will lose out on the obvious indications that some may have. It is in the democracies of many people's wisdom that is valuable. As long as the wisdom of the masses in the classical sense is being able to guess and use the average guesswork. If people guess, for example. on how many beans are in a can is the average answer usually quite good. But if you're asking complicated questions, it doesn't mean anything. On the other hand, it's the ideas we're looking for. So thank you. A senator's excellent motivation and a very good way to reflect on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, this is very interesting. Today, if a politician is contemplating matters and tries to look into what he sees in the opinion of the masses, he may hear only very loud voices and may miscalculate badly because behind him is the silent group who is always thinking their ways as well and who has their own opinions. It may be that as we look at the media and the Internet, we are not getting the right picture at all, and this has now proved true. We have experience with national pay here, and really, it's not bad. She's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u32	A respectable president. It's very interesting to have this conversation. Here we go. A senator into the rock - speaking cave, which can certainly amplify certain voices, which, of course, do not describe the opinions of much - and vice versa. That's where all the possibilities are. It is difficult to discern whether this is the case. Is this really the most real thing? Or is it a small, loud group? It's very difficult to realize that. However, there are several methods that can be used to get closer to what is right. It is the most important conversation, the source of the initiative of the people or the voters. I'll mention them back to the energy package case. That's what got me, for example. I'm surprised that the lowest possible response to the Commission's bill could not be achieved. Only 7.5% of signatures were obtained over a much longer period than was given in the regulations of the administrative board. I was surprised. I would have expected this to have reached the minimum easily, but it didn't. Is this, then, evidence that a loud minority was actually in their rock - speaking cave or not? Maybe not. Maybe. Also, there were polls that indicated that the ratios were completely different and that the polls were different, why didn't they come back in their signatures? These are questions that we should have asked and taken further than that, which was for many and significant reasons that may not be quite time to trace. But we have good experience with national regulations. Sadly, with the latest, she has been ignored, which is not a good experience, not for those who participated in it. I think we have a responsibility to live up to our part of the responsibility that direct democracy places on our shoulders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u33	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's all very interesting, and we're looking at examples of this in many Western lands, that the politics and the media don't quite understand what people really want. The most famous example is the natural heat today, Bgret. It seemed that people were unprepared for what the common people really wanted to do. But you don't know. That's exactly what it is. A senator came in earlier, this may also cut difficult situations because people respect them. After a larger part, there is a definite endpoint. Then you can cut something that may not happen differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u34	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis from a council of councils to develop a progressive education on the subject of sexology, sexual freedom, self - determination rights, and the importance of consent to sexual relations. The suggestion includes assigning prime minister in collaboration with the local minister of the cases to organize and start a continuing education no later than in 2020 on the subject of gender, sexual freedom, self - determination rights, and the importance of sexual agreements in sexual relations and spending the necessary resources, but for the first three years, at least three years will be 150 million. K. magazines to specific projects that will be responsible for the prime minister, the minister of education and culture, and the Minister of Justice. The proposal assumes that all schools and institutions of the justice system, such as police, courts, and courts, will be treated directly. Then there will be a special emphasis on strengthening the free community groups, the media, the agencies to the media, education, and special campaigns that will be directed toward the target groups of society, as it is important to support those who contribute to these matters by vital activity and expertise. It is important that in the context of the fact that open process of distribution also strengthens the quality of the projects that will be strengthened. Mr. President. This proposal was previously introduced to a 149th legislature and is now reassigned with additional logic to a report. Sexual violence and harassment, along with sexual violence, have finally come to an extreme and become increasingly evident as to deep and vast social ills. On March 23, 2018, there were approved changes in the general penal law and the rape concept defined out of lack of consent. The change was made an important step in providing freedom of sex and the self - determination of individuals' rights. In everyday speech there has been a talk of approval or approval bill, i.e. that intercourse or other sexual practices can be punished if there is no clear consent to engaging in sexual activity. It may be noted that in recent years the spread of community media has been vast, and their use has changed patterns of communication and opportunities for the distribution of all types of personal material of sexual nature to a different purpose. Sexual and sexual violence has many causes. One of them differs from the sex - sex situation when confronted with things such as position of power, responsibility in home, training of children, remuneration, involvement in employment, securities of women, and pornography. In view of the complexity of the problem and the solutions, it is necessary to obtain extensive improvements, including Based on international commitments and contracts involved in Iceland The General agreed in June. Parliamentary resolution of a strategy for 2019,2022 on action against violence and its consequences. They set out clear goals, and they agree well with these proposals but take particular steps and assume an increase in money for them. The Committee of Public Education and Education Committee on the Committee of the Committee on the Committee of the Parliament states that, by permission of the President, it is granted: The question highlights the importance of responding to the scope of harassment and the violence that was exposed in the #methoo movement, especially in the labour market, and the right to perform an extensive task, which is also needed. to include a progressive education on gender, sexual freedom, self - determination rights, and the importance of consent in sexual relations. This is exactly what this proposal here is for treatment. It aims to include such instruction as most aspects of society. So the interpretation proposal harmonizes fully with the resolution that was adopted in spring. Mr. President. In recent years and decades, knowledge of the nature and consequences of sexual abuse has greatly increased. Because of this, the rights of the patient have been strengthened, e.g. in a court-care unit, in an emergency room, and in modern criminal studies. It is also considered important for the public's understanding of the crime and the definition of the Lawgiver, i.e. that the law is in relation to the community they hold. In recent years, there have been increasing discussions of sexual violence, and large numbers of women and girls have gone forward, including some of them. on the scene of community media, and reported cases of sexual abuse, stressing that such violence will not be ignored. During social discussions, victims of sexual abuse have stressed that sex crime's responsibilities are shifting from those who tolerate it to others. It's, like, a... one of the goals of the Drape parade that has gone on to show solidarity and root out prejudice against those who tolerate sexual abuse. The first march was carried out in 2011. The discussion of sexual violence and the preemptive work of it has also emphasized the importance of increasing the understanding of the boundaries between sex and violence of young people and the importance of bringing responsibilities from those who are tolerated to do things, e.g. with the short picture Get a yes! Then there have been cases of sex crimes and cases of rape within the justice system that stirred up reactions and protests in society. Strategies, botanical organizations that fight sexual abuse and provide aid to victims, define rape as sexual violence in which someone squeezes or tries to penetrate another person's body against its will, thus breaking the right of self - determination and self - control. A discussion of the treatment of sexual fractures within the justice system and the results of individual judicial cases shows that there is an increased frequency of emphasis on the lack of consent to the definition of rape. Mr. President. Iceland validated the European Council's Convention on Prevention and Prevention of Women and Family Violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, in April 2018. The treaty has to do with prevention and the fighting against violence against women and domestic violence. In III. Chapter 13 of the contract is a general discussion of prevention. clear stipulation of the contract at all levels contributing to, or promoting, action or awareness-replacement programmes, including in cooperation with international human rights organisations, the general public, free partners and particularly women's organizations when appropriate, in order to enhance the public's awareness and understanding of different manifestations of violence that fall under the standards of the agreement, the consequences of their children and the importance of preventing such violence. It should also be noted that Member States should ensure wide communication of public information on available measures to prevent any violence that falls below the level of the contract. 14th degree. The contract says: Since this is the case, the parties should take steps to include educational material on the invitations of formal school textbooks at all levels of the school system, tailored to the growing understanding of students, such as male and female equality, sex role which replaces the stereotypes of sexual orientation, mutual respect, peaceful solution to issues between relationships, sexual violence against women, and privacy of individuals. Contract partners should take the necessary steps to apply the principles cited at 1 mg. magazines in the media, in educational teams outside traditional educational systems, and in sports status, cultural services, and leisure facilities. Iceland has validated more international agreements that provide protection against sexual abuse and their treatment. In addition, monitoring committees have the contracts. comment on the treatment of sexual fractures within the justice system. Such contracts can interfere with the development of criminal rights. The United Nations Convention on Discrimination With Women of 1979 and the United Nations Convention on Child Rights of 1989 The report on the execution of all discrimination against women since March 2016, as an assessment in Iceland, discusses the violence against women in this country. The Committee promotes the United States, and so does the United States. to emphasize the prosecuting and the proselytizing of rape and sexual acts, as well as the identification and response of a high proportion of courts in such cases. Sexual immorality and its protection have also been discussed at the European Council. These are mainly the European Convention and the European Court of Human Rights. Mr. President. There are numerous precedents that countries have come directly to cover - up with the goal of preventing violence. The Swedish authorities began in February 2018, with an educational program directed toward young people and adults working with young people. The Swedish government put $1,000,000 on the project. In general, the Swedish government has spent some 25 million dollars on the prevention of sexual harassment and violence at work. In addition, Sweden has spent about 50 million dollars at the Institute of Education (Scochelet) in an effort to meet sex education and preemptive work in schools. In addition, the Swedish state has given $25 million to the medical system to strengthen the social network when it comes to domestic violence and sexual abuse. Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of justice published an article in the morning paper under the heading ◯ Not just a question number ◯ a few days ago. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ In most cases, the government's clients are numbers on paper or on language numbers, but in these cases it is important to consider the human factor and see to it that one part of the matter is a broken person who is in need of needed assistance. The system must be human, and in order to provide a fragile shelter. I'm going to go for it. The person standing here agrees with the highest. A minister who believes that the proposal for a hearing presented here is an important part of this urgent assignment. Transporters feel that it is long time to set off a permanent road that guarantees that all will receive proper instruction on violence, communication, sexual instruction, and regulations, such as the regulations of the general penalties and regulations on the rights of law and rights of violations. It has been under attack on temporary efforts that have often resulted in success. However, when it comes to the prevention and training of this group, it is not necessary to make yet another effort. Rather, the State and the sheep need to ensure that the educational work is maintained and extended to the whole community, thus providing the long - term results. This is in line with the international minimum commitments committed by the Icelandic state and is about time for them to be taken seriously. It is suggested that the case will be referred to the General and Education Committee after this discussion, hoping for a careful discussion and then adopted at the General Assembly after that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u35	Mr. President. There's some interesting stuff going on around here. I just want to have a word with the senator about ongoing education, not just a temporary conflict, as he mentioned. I feel that the spirit soars a little over the lake that there's really little or nothing going on today. I'd like to mention a few things. The class being taught today is one of the goals of one chapter, with the permission of a president: ▪ That students will see the importance of having responsible sex with the approval of both parties as well as the importance of sexual harassment and violence. Also, social skills - vitality was at the time of a special study but was taken out as a special article and inserted into community articles - by the permission of the president, expected the student to be able to: ▪ Shows the importance of showing respect for yourself and others, for human rights, for social justice, and for the sanctity of human life. Also, with the permission of a president: ▪ That the student can identify with people of different backgrounds and attitudes, in various places and times. Again, with the permission of a president: the value of equality and human rights in all areas of society and the general law on human rights. And with President's permission, at the end of the program: ◯Informate your own ability to act and be aware of the consequences of his actions or inactivity. I feel that there is a trend to keep looking out of the system to try to be successful instead of looking into the system to be successful in what is being asked here. Because a large number of people, all kinds of organizations, approved or non-recognised, are flocking into the system, into school is extremely, allowed to have a touch surface with students. - I'm going to go back to the next counter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this suggestion. True, as he correctly testified, there are regulations that the instruction should be given in this regard, and it is very effective. You may be given the idea of reading the Parliament's formula that nothing is done. Not at all. That wasn't the point. There are some very good things to do, but I think there are even more to do, and I think schools especially need to be helped to have good teaching skills and teachers in particular about these things. That is why the threefold suggestion is made, i.e. ... there'llbeexpensit,up to 50 million. K. each year for the next three years, in the preparation of lessons, lessons and courses, meetings and conventions, the presentation form for students and teachers. This is the thought of supporting it. Then there is the justice system. The public and campaigns of free partners, media, and institutions are then spoken of as being directed toward the target groups. It is primarily a talk to the common people. Of course, we know that some of us have not finished school, others at school, etc. So people also need to be spoken to. You need to speak into the system. This is primarily to consider that this aspect of education and the justice system is largely responsible for having tools and tools to work with. I have at least a few minutes. Feel it so that in spite of the most beautiful declarations - I'm not saying a pot. But I'm going to say, I'm sure you can do better, and I think that such assistance should be well silent in the places the proposal takes place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u37	Mr. President. This refers to a considerable amount of money. I wonder, " What if we let that money flow to the very people who are truly doing it in school who are only quoted here? ' The Senator named the Swedish Education Agency. Why don't we just put the money in a High School Institute to make a progressive study of life? I'd like to mention again, if the senator didn't hear, which is very important to understand, what happened a few years ago, when a matter of vitality was taken out as a specialist and put into community articles where men teach geography, history, geology, etc. It is taken out as a specialty, and it is included in another article. This is because we have a set of study sessions inside a school schedule. If this is to be the case, it must be at the expense of someone else. Today is not just some instruction on these matters, it is a specific subject for study. In basic schools, where I know what to do best, I am teaching a lot of this today and teaching a lot of these things. Hv. A candidate mentioned in his talk ongoing instruction. I made it look like a thorn to me earlier. This sounds a bit--and I hope he takes it back up--as if there's little or nothing going on in the group today. It's just that there's a lot of work to do. Of course, you can always do better than that, for example, at the expense of someone else. A core school schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u38	I thank you again. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think that, of course, it may always be better. True, there are good things being done. Part of this proposal has to do with the education system in particular. It's all about the school system, not just basic schools, but in itself to play schools, high schools, and that's why college. I think it is very important that every time there is educational material that meets today's needs. Only the need for renewal on such a subject requires financial support. That is not in itself the suggestion that we must go to the syllabus to set this up. I'd rather you'd be able to improve what you already have. You may need to change your syllabus. I won't say anything about it. But I think it's very important to be able to integrate this into the system and that it's a targeted education too, and out there it goes the suggestion also, the teachers themselves, make them even better equipped to deal with these often very difficult delicate issues. There I am absolutely convinced that I can do better. Then, of course, it is something that had not been brought on in these answers and that may not be specifically recorded, but a large part is the justice system itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steindór Valdímdar's Valdimarsson for this fine thing. I was just going to get more involved with the justice system because I am deeply concerned about how we often react when it is true that we have been subjected to violence. We are talking about progressive instruction and other necessary things for our children, but they also speak of the right of self - determination and the importance of consent in sexual relations. I want to refer directly to law No. 19/190, in general penalties, in 194.g. That is where, by permission of the president, it says in 1 Corinthians. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Anyone who has intercourse or other sexual relations with a man without his consent is guilty of rape and should be imprisoned for no less than 1 year and up to 16 years. We've heard almost every week stories of delicate and melancholy things that arise, even cases where little children have been victimized to two or four years of age, terrible cases. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he knows that we have ever really changed the line. You wonder how far it takes to go, to be violent, and to take another person from self - control over your own body, so that this penalty will be used in the way the law expects. Would such a thing have any power?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A member of the council made a special subject of 194. gr. a general penal law recently changed, as shown in my case, and I think she knows perfectly. It speaks of approval. But now, here we go. A senator's case a little bit on the line of punishment and whether there's a reason to make it more useful, as I understood it. In itself, this council proposal does not take a direct stand for punishment or punishment. It goes on to show that people in general and especially those who discuss these matters in the system are well - informed and aware of the nature of these fractures, how they affect their ability to break and - I don't know exactly how to say this - how to deal with such offenses and how to treat them in the system. That's the main thing. I myself am not a very punished man. Generally speaking, though there are certainly many very sad and very serious cases, I do not know exactly whether or not we will cut back by tightening our punishments. [[The president calls.]] The key is to prevent these fractures from being committed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I realize that this is mainly about progressive education and how our legal system is holding the subjects of tolerance and then how the school system handles the instruction that we would like our young people to receive. Let's just say I took advantage of the situation. I'd like to ask myself exactly that. I may be a very punished woman in this regard, quite contrary to it. Senator. Some cases I feel that way. That's why I'm rolling it up. Something else has shown up in the bill, and the emphasis is truly okay with me. But it was mostly the one that woke me up. I was thinking about the barge. I don't think he was ever new. Although it is not directly related to progressive instruction, our education involves our own self - determination rights. When someone may have offended us, it will hopefully result in the person being called to account, if he has wronged someone against his will. This has surprised me. The line of punishment has not been new, but it is up to 16 years. That's where I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u42	Mr. President. I can well appreciate that when it comes to serious offenses, people may at times feel that they are not being dealt with with sufficiently in the face of punishment. However, I believe that the preemptive value of punishment in many areas is limited. Then the question is, What is the purpose of punishment? Is that an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth? Of course, that's a view. But are we preventing an offense? Are we improving? Are we helping the offender? Are we helping those who were crushed by severe prison sentences? I don't know. I haven't examined it yet, but I have a feeling that in spite of everything, I've been gaining a little weight. It's my feeling, without my being an expert in that field. But then, when discussing the line of penalties, we need to remember that when used to the full, there are usually more offenses involved. It is a critical violation that leads to a person's being near the limit of the line of execution, as it were. But I reiterate my opinion that I think it is most fortunate that we will do everything we can to prevent such violations from being committed and that those to whom they are treated will be as well treated as possible in the system and that we will try to see that these fractures are reduced, especially that all fractures will be examined and given just treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u43	A respectable president. We are dealing with the arrangement for progressive education on gender, sexual freedom, self - determination, and the importance of sexual consent. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Steindór Valdrim's Valdimarsson for his contribution. He sets up three categories: First, it's the education system, all its points, second, communications and campaigns of free society and media directed to target groups and third, the justice system. I would've wanted a fourth, General, Government, State Department, Ministry. It is only a year ago that we witnessed an amazing event, and so we did not benefit from teaching in the administration system and in the World Congress too. We are not to be excluded from being educated in this important language class. Then there's something else I can see. I went through all of this, and nowhere in particular did I tell you that one of the most vulnerable individuals who suffer sexual harassment is disabled. Under that rule, the United Nations Convention on the Causes of the Disappointment. True, he's not called, but I realize that he's also referring to this group. This is one of the fragile groups that need special attention, and unfortunately, these matters have been seriously damaged and not protected as they should be. We are under obligation to do so because we need to realize that this is the group that has the least ability to defend themselves in these matters. On November 8, I would also like to point out that the day for harassment and sexual harassment is ahead. The day is not held high enough, and we are under obligation to make sure that this day is a progressive education for these matters, in schools, and everywhere in society. It is required that we try to do this day so that bells and clocks will be rang, try to remind us thoroughly of it. Somehow it hasn't worked, and it's kind of a sin because there's a day set up for this party to remind us of it. There's nothing we can do to be reminded of, and that's fine. This is one of the ugliest groups of human teachers and incomprehensible in many ways. That is why we really need to work hard on this issue, and of course, education from infancy is the main thing. In the hope that the group will receive sufficient attention, instruction and instruction will return to one another. I'm not going to have any more words on this subject, but as I say, I hope that this group of subjects will receive all the attention they deserve and that they will see to it that information comes to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u44	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson so much for his speech and meditation. It's certainly a very good point that you probably didn't give special courses for politicians and administration in general, but it wasn't under attack, because you might now expect those who handle laws and rules and make other rules about how to behave in society should know how to deal with them. Of course, all of this has fallen to instruct us all. Hv. A senator also gave an important tip about the position of individual groups that are involved and are particularly sensitive when it comes to matters of the sort under consideration, the issues that are being tried to educate and prevent humans from being influenced by discrimination and violence. There were no extenuating groups. It's all common but, of course, thinking through the education system, and there are disabled people there too. And then we have the free organization that has the opportunity to use it, so I believe in itself that this group should be possible to do the same. At the very least, it is quite certain that this group will not be excluded or that they will not be given any special instruction or that they will be taught about its special status.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson for his tips. From the experience of judging, we do not receive this instruction here at the council. But in this context, I would also like to point out the consequences of the violence involved, the consequences to the individuals involved. These are individuals who are cut off in life. People who may never wait for them to make things right for the rest of their lives. That's why I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Sæland Howl of judicial action on these matters. Sadly, we know that those who have suffered rape or incest often experience the restoration of the system of justice. It is terrible that we are still in the position that victims are in the terrible situation of failure to intervene and the justice system does not surround them and in every way help them but often causes even greater damage. This is a difficult matter, but we are under obligation to protect these individuals and especially those who are the most vulnerable and unable to protect themselves. Then I'm talking about children and disabled persons and those in a situation where they have no chance of defending themselves. Then the justice system will come and protect them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u46	Mr. President. I think it's absolutely true that we are in our society gradually becoming better aware of the serious consequences of such a crime in the lives of a person, far beyond the injury or something like that. This has a lifelong effect on such ones. At this point, we are gradually beginning to realize, and we are reacting to it. I want to make it clear that I believe that there are many things that are well done. Things have changed, we must not forget. But I think most people, if not all, are aware that it is possible to do more to reduce or prevent such a violation by identifying what and what must not and what to do and what will be the result if they do what cannot be done. Of course, in such matters, most of us, though not all, are talking about crime, about criminal conduct. Of course, there the view that everyone will be treated justly, including those accused of such crimes. We have to make sure of that. But I think we can do it along with that, like a croak. One senator put it, in the hands of those who commit these fractures, causes them to receive the best treatment and that it is detracted as far as possible from the hard experiences of these partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. In many ways, I agree with him that we are doing some good things in this regard, but it can be done better if it is done. We also have to think outside the box and watch out for it. The individuals who find themselves in this situation are many of the individuals affected for life's sake. The sooner you step in and the sooner something is done for these individuals, the more likely it is that these people will not be ruining their lives for the rest of their lives and that the damage will be permanent scars in their emotional lives. Of course, we must also be careful that the ones who do not interfere with these crimes are keeping the whole system in full rights. We're at a crossroads. I think we're changing the angle. We're on the right track with what's been going on lately with the #methoo and what sprang up out of it. We'll see it gradually filtering in. If we continue on this course and take care of our efforts to focus on preventing these offenses and watching out for those who land them, I think we're on the right path, and all of us can take part in it and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on environmental impact assessments, no. 106/2000, with subsequent changes, for a lake power plant, a cigar nest. With me on the bill is why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. In Annex 1 of the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment, it is presented what implementation should depend on the environmental impact assessment. The appendix presents three ways. Group A is the projection that should always be subject to environmental assessment, Class B and Class C are carried out which may result in significant environmental impacts and which will be assessed on the nature, extent and location, depending on the environmental impact or not. This bill suggests that hydropower plants installed at 200 kW or more will be removed from Class B to Class A and will therefore always be subject to environmental assessment. It is also suggested that stations using wind power for electricity production, a wind farm called, with 2 MW installed by electricity or more, be shifted from Class B to category A and will also be subject to environmental assessment at all times. A bill report says, with permission from the President: The two primes of this material were presented in 149, the legislature, 869 and 875th, and were the party of the people with that case at the last legislature, but instead of having each of them separately, we decided to put them together for a single bill. In current legislation, a water power plant, installed with 200 kW or more power power sources, falls into force that uses power to generate electricity, a wind farm, installed with a power source of 2 MW or more in the category B in Annex 1. According to 1st mg. Annex 1 shall evaluate projects falling below the B and C category in each case and consequently the environmental impact assessment is not required in such projects. Action in the construction and management of the fallways and cigars may have a major impact on the environment and the natural environment. Dissatisfaction prevails with the current program where the activations of less than 10 MW electrical forces have been allowed without environmental assessment. In this case, windmills with 2 MW power may be considerably large and therefore present in the environment, which on its own may cause a variety of disturbances. It is therefore suggested that all hydropowers installed with 200 kW or more power sources and stop using wind power for electricity generation, the so-called wind nest, incorporated under force 2MW or more will fall under category A in Annex 1 and implementation will always be subject to environmental assessment. A respectable president. Why shouldn't this be done? Here, for example. not to be talking about vacation owners and others who want to activate the town stream or have small microdotes for their own use. This is not about environmental assessment of these activations at all. This refers to the more active activations, and most certainly most of them indicate that they are not for personal use at all but to try to sell into the system or something else. It is absolutely crystal clear to the people that nature should enjoy the doubt when we are talking about these matters. Maybe now you're going to go into the conspiracy theories. I don't know how far they can go, a respectable president. But what causes such activation to be protected, e.g. Electromagnetic activation of less than 10 MW? What will that cause? Now we're fighting to keep, for example. Our own land induction, but now it's time for the industrial organization to publish recently that perhaps it's time to go uplanding, isn't it? With 70% market share and such. What is it that makes possible that in the future energy policy, we have created a energy package one, two and three, and on the way we have a pack of four and five, let's not place an unreservedly set e.g. The production agencies, the water supply and the wind, for environmental assessment, are clearly being activated for more than their own use? A group of people don't quite realize that. We want nature to enjoy the doubt. We don't want a human being to have a 9.99 MW electrical activation, but if it's a 10.01 MW, it has to have a environmental assessment. In view of our discussion, in view of the future nuclear policy, we set the limit, and we consider this to be reasonable and normal. Therefore, I expect it to be handled well, especially by natureists and others who speak for nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u49	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here because I wonder what this bill is about. The members of the Falcons. I'm kind of on the other side, since I'd rather simplify and lighten the environment of the mini-doers -- now I'm going to concentrate on minor activations because I know them better - and the light application procedure towards them. It is not so simple that you build a small reactivation of almost 10 MW without any food. It is clear that all microinvolved under 200 kW will be heard under the permission of the countryside. Under these circumstances, all microindustries and peasants may fall to their own use, that is correct. However, microintendents that have installed power below 200 kW may also be reporting to the Organization and there is a lot of work to do with them as well. We are naturally talking about nature protection and climate in the same sector, but microinvolves are environmentally dependent energy sources and contribute to the lower emissions of unwanted substances. Monuments and natural disasters are almost completely reversible. These are spillers. This area is not drowned under a foundation. When you get to such a slight reactivation, they don't come up with much pressure. I can give you an example. I arrived this fall at Husat, and there are four of the fortresses in the same river, and it really needed to show me where they were so that I realized. It's just being used for the current flow, not making any lagoons or major structures. The stations may be referring to small cottages. So we're doing a little bit of a gnat here. Rather, we should try to build up these activities, which we are by strengthening the public system, which is very weak in many areas. In this chair, I have pointed out that we could strengthen the distribution system and thus reduce the cost of operating. This would be one way to level the electricity cost of a rural town that has reached a quarter of the population. But if we get some of the activations that are more than 200 kW, they're reported to the Organization and we take a lot of action. I've been watching, e.g. activations that are being built in the west of the country, totaling 400 to 1,600 kW. In other words, almost all of the activations of the West are minor inducers. We don't have the big continuum transfunctioners. I think it's possible to say that this is all the fortresses that are very natural, if we can call it that, and all the buildings. There are several scores of inducers all over the country, and their median size is probably about 1 MW. Though larger, they are not much larger. To engage in activation of 400 kW, you have to go to the Organizational Institute, and then you have a lot of work to do. You have to understand the growth of vegetation around the area, although the disorder is no more than a farmer's farm field. If the land is in a hurry, consider if there is any effect on water and trout fishing and other fishing. Birds need to be counted. It'll take a few years. I know that the activations on the larger side -- we're talking over 1 MW - have had environmental evaluations rather than double costs, since this has sometimes been sent back from Organization. Then, like any other, the whole process is appreciated. These persons have put in full environmental assessment to simplify the system itself and reduce costs. We're talking about increasing demand for electricity across the country. It is not easy to build our transport systems in order to disseminate the electricity already produced by large activations. We're talking about a very delicate area like the Vestafjörður. We are talking about Snæfells, and from the east and north, all over the world, can be activated by small activations that simply disappear into the environment and are very supportive of the distribution system. When all of this is over, once the fish are counted and the birds are taken care of, they'll all go into a Organizational Institute for analysis, and then they can send them back, requiring further environmental assessment or assessment of the environment, and even taking a global environmental assessment. The decision of the Agency can then be made on an assessment for environmental ministers and there will be natural opportunities for lawgivers to make comments. The process around microinvasions is very complex. I have in the preparation of a synonym which is more likely to simplify this in order to strengthen the distribution system, to promote sectoral development in scattered regions. Rather, we should look to the Norwegians: All small workers under certain megawatts can only hear them under an energy agency. She's going over this process. We are always a little more Catholic than the pope when it comes to all licences and regulations, but they trust their energy agency to deal with this. That's what I think we could do right here because we've got a lot of experience, decades of experience, small-activations and their type, and what they're doing for us. I think we should slow down and maybe cross to the other end and look more closely at how we can ease up and build a system that takes place all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir In this speech, give the Lord's Kristjánsdóttir Signor Signý. Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy. A senator, and she says she's preparing a completely different synonym. Maybe that's why I do and what I do. A senator is not in the same category; we see things quite clearly. She says it's nice to step in north and trust Power Institute. I trust Land activation 100% to produce all the electricity we need, as well as the Landsnet 100% to establish the powerful distribution network that is already in construction. Hv. A senator was with me on a professional committee last year when I had the privilege of being a vice president. We visited, for example. Landnet and I saw their major goals there, so I will not expect that at the end of the day, we will not be able to boast about the magnificent distribution system of electricity, whether it is for the West, or for the South, where the trouble is or in the northeastern country where we also have a problem. We know it's a lot going on. However, when it comes to this assessment, I say to my parts: I am an extremely natural and equalist person in many ways. I can't see anything wrong with a cigar with 2 MW electricalized power, over, going to environmental assessment. Not at all. Thanks, too. A senator for all this instruction on how these matters work and the many years they take; I had not realized that these were years of life. It's kind of strange that anyone would think of it. But here it is just saying that those who need this for themselves can certainly just build their little electric power plant at their cottages, dot and bottoms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the counter-sponsored. The distribution system and transport systems are natural what, and it is a national network that handles the transport system. The distribution system is the responsibility of Raiks and Orcsum the West. It's sick in many places. For many reasons, the distribution system we live in is weak. We need to strengthen it. We need to strengthen the development of electricity, and we need to strengthen the system where it is. It goes very far and goes in many directions. There are microinducers to strengthen it, since microdotes simply enter the distribution system. I think we're just on our separate line with this one, each with the other. But I'm a lot of nature protection. That's why I'd rather build for this kind of operation than build something like "Crumbitisic Reactivation," which is so much larger and so much more extensive on the environment. Not that we do not need it too. But this system, I think, is to be especially built by electrical security across the country. Then, too, 400 or 600 kW or 2 MW activation is not seen at the completion of the project and we are just using the current flow, not gathering into a living cell and the pipes are natural below the earth. Then there is a small stophouse below, perhaps to be held when you drive by a small cottage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u52	A respectable president. I sincerely thank the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir for correcting me, that I am confused with distribution systems and transport systems. One thing is certain, though, that if there is not a transport system built for them by the Landsnet, it will be disintegrated. Surely we can agree on that. One is the other. A senator claims to be a great protectionist, and then I can't live by anything but realize what is wrong with the environmental assessment so that nature can enjoy the doubt. I think that if things are normal and everything is okay and there is no doubt about it and nature is not being affected in one or more ways, this environmental assessment will go through and the person will be able to build his minor workings as well. A senator feels that there is even the basis for Iceland's electrical security. I believe we now live in a much bigger and more powerful system than we have to rely on small mechanics. Me, at least. I hope so. So I'm still at a place where I realize that more than 30% of manufactured energy doesn't come to where it should be due because we haven't yet been able to build songs that are needed in order to spread it around the country. I'm still there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u53	A respectable president. Yeah, we're just gonna have to agree to each other. We must get together eventually. But I'm here, for example. with a small organization brochure with instructions on the reporting of the related hydropower workers, with the power installed up to 10 MW. If you look through it, you will see that there is nothing simple about setting up small activations. This requires a lot of environmental assessment, although it is not the large environmental assessment we are talking about. [[Up front.]] And these fortresses can have, so I repeat myself, less effective than some building next to them. I can give you an example. I went to Akureyri the other day. At the center of the retail site, there is activation, small activation. All you see is the station building that's along the road, which is just a nice little network of architecture. On the other side of the river is a concrete station, of which there is a significantly greater visual pollution than this small activation. I think we're making a gnat out of gnats in these waters. But it's good that these issues are discussed, and it's important that we find a good way for small workers around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u54	A respectable president. We're dealing with the people's bill on changing the environmental assessment laws, with subsequent changes, about hydropower plants and wind farms. We're asking for small inducers below 10 MW in water and 2 MW in the windhouse for environmental food. Why? Yeah, that's what it says. A new generation is waking up to the need for nature to be first and to be number one, two and three. In the past, it was listed as a matter of nature, and the assessment was that if this were done as we put it in the bill, life forms, fish, and birds would need to be considered. I would say that inside it there should be more types of biomaterials, such as insects and other things that such microinvolveds will affect a river's banks. It stabbed me already. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir said before two or three stophouses could be set by and it could hardly be seen; this would be just like one cottage. She put it as if it were like one farmer on a farm. We also know that one tuna even means molaring. We're turning it around because of carbon dioxide binding. All these disturbances in water spills are involved. We have an obligation to make sure that this is not the way the natural world is being destroyed. We never know what's in the place we're going to drop activation. There are many valuable things there, such as History. We don't know. It has been found that when you start digging somewhere, you can find my historical background. We also know that there may be other things in nature that are unique in the place where we would be destroying the next generation. We're not supposed to. The most amazing thing is that nature isn't number one, two and three of the deaths of doubt, and it hasn't been made to make distribution systems and transport systems in such a way that we use the energy we have as well as possible, only 100%. We're supposed to start at the right end and make sure that we don't lose energy just because we don't have a good transport system. There are a number of methods of activation, especially if we also take the wind's energy. We've got spades to drive and to generate wind power. We already know that this is the cause of massive bird death. It's a visual pollution. We know that progress is fast. It has begun to deal with the marine strategists, and we also have heat exchange in the water. The future is developing new methods for producing energy. The human race has for the past 200 to 300 years caused the greatest damage to nature that has occurred over the millennium. We seem completely out of control in causing irreversible damage to nature. Therefore, we have an obligation to be in harmony with nature. If we're going to activate a waterfall, it'll have a visual effect. It affects where we put windmills. We need to think: Are we putting them on bare cheerleaders, where there is no bird life and no harm, or are we putting them on because they can cause serious damage? Therefore, environmental assessment is necessary. It is clear that the introduction of activation into environmental assessments will not stop it if it is designed to cause minimal damage to nature and to remove it virtually harmlessly. I say for my part, we're supposed to accept the bill because we're going to take the side of nature, and that's what we have to do. Today's society, especially for our children, requires that we have the natural world number one, two and three, and think about what we will do before we harm it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u55	I bring a bill to legalize a change in child protection law and general penal law. The first carrier is a dog. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and we have importers. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir and the one that says here. In chapter I, regarding the transformation of child protection, the attorney for the State to provide copies of the Children's Health Department when convicted of a GXXII offense. the section of the general penal law directed against an individual who has not reached 18 years of age, as soon as the final judgment has been passed. As one report shows, the bill was introduced earlier in 149, the legislature and the 148th legislature Council and is now reassigned materially unchanged. The discussion of child abuse has often raised speculation as to the best way to conduct child care and treatment of convicted sexual offenders with high levels of child abuse. It is important to evaluate whether the offender is likely to fold again, and in this context, severity is not a good measure. Based on the professional opinion, the most reliable device in these substances is a so-called risk assessment, a specific psychological evaluation carried out to assess the likely re-traveling of the subject. It is important that those who are judged to be sexually violent against a child are obligated to submit to that kind of food. If a person is to be considered likely to break up again, special attention must be paid after the end of the sentence. Since 2009, this type of risk assessment has been carried out by children who have been guilty of improper sexual behavior. Although studies have shown that there are less than 20% sexual fractures in nontreated individuals, those who engage in sexual immorality are unlikely to repeat. Thus, a risk assessment is a way to assess the risks of a particular person associated with various types of crime. The aim of risk assessment is, then, to predict whether a criminal would fold back and, if indicated, respond appropriately to the result in an attempt to avoid such an outcome. Therefore, the risk assessment, as it is best performed, will do more than predict behavioural outcomes; it will also help treating and monitors to summarise the information required to create a treatment and supportive regimen. A risk assessment also shows the need for information for the criminal protection system when deciding the conditions of parole and what needs to be met in order to protect the public and thereby reduce the likelihood of a crime. Research has shown that there are very different rates of those judged for sexual abuse based on high - risk categories. For example, the ATE rate is 10 years post-mortem in an individual at low risk 9% compared to 45% in a high-risk individual. So much work is being done by providing individuals at high risk of both support and monitoring. In many parts of the world, a surveillance and support system directed against convicted sexual offenders has been adopted, and the prevention of fractures is intended to contribute to the development of child protection. To name, e.g. Britain, which has taken special measures to deal with the factors mentioned above. This involves the cooperation of public members having a three-way review of individuals who have been judged, 2) with parole, and 3) the highest risk of breaking up. Special attention should be paid to those who are judged to be at greatest risk. Is the project referred to in the English Multi-Agency Public Protection. According to the evidence, such an arrangement is in 36 C.E. children's protection laws that stipulate other child protection measures. This bill seeks to strengthen the resources of child protection laws in order to ensure the safety of children. Is the implementation of the monitoring proposed on the bill similar to that of the United Kingdom, although not going as far as it will go, e.g. is not expected to have a special record of sexual offenders who will be judged and cannot be asked to consult a judge after a judgment has fallen in order to receive a special judgment on safety measures. In two cases, the European Court of Human Rights has felt that arrangements there do not conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. The bill suggests, in addition to changes in wording on 1st. 36 st. the child protection law will be a new law of 36. a, added to VII. section of the law requiring other child protection measures as well as the addition of a new set of rules to VII. in the general penal code, 64. ... ina state requiring security measures, removal of civil rights and the recording of property. With these changes, officials believe that the Children's Institutes for Children's Health will allow them to carry out their duties by being able to alert the Child Welfare Committee when individuals with a high risk could move into their districts, administer special precautions when a judge considers them dangerous and thus ensure child safety. Such safety measures are to prevent the conviction that sexual offenders, believed to be dangerous children, can turn their name into a national file without public knowledge of the changes in their names. According to 1st mg. 36 st. Child welfare can inform the Children's Health Department of Child Welfare if a person with a high risk is considered to be a result of moving in her district. On the other hand, a child - welfare agency does not have any resources under child protection laws to find out where the individuals who may be expected to be in grave danger and thus does not really have a chance to inform child - welfare committees of the fact that such individuals have moved to their district. There are also no laws allowing special safety precautions to be taken against those considered hazardous and likely to recur. It is suggested that the Children's Health Office be informed of this immediately after the final judgment on sexual misconduct has been committed against an individual under 18 years of age. It is also assumed that prior to the conviction of the individual who is allowed to act according to the criminal treatment guidelines, which include: considers how likely the person is to fold again. If the result of the risk assessment suggests that there may be a high risk for the individual, the judge may decide that the authorities are allowed to take special precautions to be taken to the individual after the end of the sentence and that the Children's Health Care Professional conducts. The bill assumes the cooperation of a prison facility, the Children's Institute, the Police, the Health Authority and the Social Protection Center where the person lives in those cases where a judge considers it proper to take such precautions. This assumes that the Children's Protection Agency will be notified at the end of a sentence as well as about the individual's residence as well as about the need to report any changes to the living room. If this is the case, the Children's Protection Agency has a chance to notify the Child Welfare Protection Agency if a man who may be seriously at risk is moved to her district, like the regulations of 36.g. child - welfare laws are expected. The bill also assumes that Children's Protection Agency, in collaboration with the local police and social and child protection authorities, will make the necessary precautions. Now that I've read a paper with the bill, I'm not going to go out in a detailed explanation every year. Transporters want this bill to go to the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-17-21.u56	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on income taxes, no. 90/2003, with subsequent changes. This is a case of gang peace. This is where the main man, the one who owns this bill, the one I ran into the gap for, as I've done so many times before. This is not a big deal. It is merely changing the obligation of a warrant, but it is under the law on income tax that says that it should be detracted from the cost of the year and that it should bring the difference to the level of success. With law No. 61/2008 added the rule that the difference should be made with an equal amount of money for three years starting with the account year when financial gains fell. In other words, it is mandatory to distribute it evenly over three years, but the bill goes on to see that it will be permitted only. It's a warrant rather than an obligation. This charge will be canceled, and instead of any optional warrant, it will be allowed to be handled, not obliged, to pass taxes on the welfare of the economy for up to three years. Since the bill has no influence on the wealth of the state, it does not have to worry about it. This will speed up payment under most circumstances, speed up the tax on welfare, which should be better for a government fund.
