ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u1	Mr. President. Being a lawyer is a challenge. U.S. attorney, too. A lawyer should avoid agreeing with his client, and he also has the right to avoid being in harmony with the views and interests he provides for his client. A state lawyer's client is the State of Iceland, and he uses prime minister in the affairs of his office. Therefore, in Guðmundar and Geirdar, a state attorney will appear on behalf of the government and therefore is impossible for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, wash your hands completely of what is being done there. A news release from the Ministry of Presidency following publication of the Icelandic State's report in the case of the Guðjón of Skarphéðinsson is more unfortunate, in order to be spoken of lightly, since the person in the court of justice feels no responsibility for the development of the case. While a diplomat is guarding private matters that have been opposed to the State, as in other matters, it is that the judge himself is the judge, not the attorney. The party itself is responsible to observe the progress of events, confirm his willingness to take certain steps, and others not. It's the whitewash that's at the highest. The prime minister stated his own office on Friday was showing us, unfortunately, another two: her indifference on the case, if she has not followed it, and/or irresponsibility under the board's law must not be shown. In view of the occasion, Mr. President, I would like to bring to mind the government at the repeated indications of the U.S. Marshal's office that in his conduct there would not be the same freedom as his private people to make demands and cause, but rather, rather, must be made objective in his case and there in a similar position and prosecution. I think that's fine for the highest. Prime Minister to keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u2	A respectable president. The national energy resources are owned by a land owner. The government is the largest owner, followed by rural areas and other landowners, such as farmers. The transport system of electricity is in the common population, but the country is not at the same level when it comes to transporting electricity into its own country. You see, it depends on where they live what they pay. The cost of electricity has increased more than urban areas in recent years, and it is apparent that urbanisation is constantly reduced. The current equation is far from equalizing this difference. But are we going over the creek to get the water? The minor inducers are defined as less than 10 MWs. In recent years, there have been many benefits. Environmental energy and both manpower and nature are often fully reversible. In addition to building up the network around the country's distribution panels, microengineering strengthens the transport pathways as well as reduces electricity loss and emissions of diffusers. Ministries for microintendents in this country are many and around the country, particularly where the distribution system needs to be strengthened, but the details and regulations of microinvolved are burdensome. The idea that a connection is costly and time-consuming and far from the corresponding process of implementation, e.g. In agriculture, where land and construction work can cost a considerable amount of money. A respectable president. Clearly, microengineering is one way to strengthen our country's distribution system and reduce its cost. The simple permission and planning of microintendents opens up the way to reach the distribution cost of electricity in rural areas, resulting in a further equation of electricity costs and equalizing opportunities for employment and promoting sustainable development across the country. Yeah, we don't have to wade through the town stream to get the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u3	A respectable president. It is surprising to think that still in 2019 there are doubts about the natural problem caused by man - made climate change. Happily, most of the body of Congress is convinced of this fact, and it is determined to do what we can to stop this disaster, and it is vital that we respond effectively to that environmental threat. Both of us need to reduce emissions and bind carbon, but we also need to prepare for the changes that are inevitable. The government has set ambitious goals and follows them with practical projects. The aims are based on the Paris Convention but go further. It is not surprising that we reason on the implications of different actions, but we reason about the need for action in the past. We are expected to look into solutions and priorities. We should not harbor fear or question the importance of the project. Criticism should not result in our failure to do anything because the contribution of the procedure cannot be conclusively proven. We simply need to take many different measures. To achieve their aims, we need to coordinate the efforts of the State, rural society, businesses, organizations, and individuals. No one can do anything, but all of us can do something. Despite the threat, world forecasts are not needed. There have been some of them throughout history, but here we are. Today, let us make good use of science and knowledge today, which has never been greater. Man's mind has no limits, it works for the good of the environment and society. Governments are to be supportive of the research, innovation and technological transfers in the environment. Let's use this field, find new solutions to meet the changing times with sustainable guidance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make sure my subject is the protection of old ships and boats. It is amazing to know that we have failed to shape policy or that handsomely protected old ships and boats are being used. Yet, experiments that have not worked well enough have been carried out. I remember that by the year 2000, it was adopted and approved by the General Assembly, a seaside committee of those days, saying: ▪ The General concluded to hide the government to prepare proposals for the preservation of old ships and boats, much less important for employment and community history. In this connection there will be a set-up of budgetary rules, and then so on. But there was nothing that led to that interpretation. In 2012, a proposal was adopted for the same committee that raised that date, but the main reason was that in cultural law, ships and boats should be protected without success. Similarly, ships built for 1950 should be protected by the law, which should be more than 50 years of age and older. V.E.G. President. We need to do this work, and I'm in the preparation of a Senate resolution proposal for that material, and it's exciting and exciting to see how a body of Congress accepts that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u5	A respectable president. Today there is an unusual lack of drug abuse, and more than 100 drugs are lacking. The director of the EMA, Rúna Hauksdóttir Hvannberg, said that the country needs to accept a persistent medication shortage. This was shown in the news reports, however, of Channel 2. Where Are We? If our health system exists now, where do we live that we need to accept the persistent lack of medicine in our country? Who is responsible for this? How is all of this? This is completely unacceptable. On the evening news, RUV spoke to a woman with a severe neurological disorder who is not receiving the necessary medication. It was observed that she is having seizures and all kinds of symptoms and that these special medicines need to be taken three, four times a day. No, they don't exist, unfortunately, so she has a serious nervous system problem but she doesn't get these medicines. She described it as a source of great distress, and she is surprised by the arrangement that all drugs have the lives of patients in the hatches. I wondered, too, and I would have thought that by 2019 we should be asking. Better to be healthy than to be in reverse. I don't think we can find someone else like that list of drugs, even though we looked back ten years in time with a flaming light. Better if it's enough, and I'm hoping we won't be here next year to talk about the lack of 200 medicines. I'd rather hope that it will be down to ten, or just zero. That would be more natural.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u6	Mr. President. For the weekend, I left west at Florence to be by the law of the People's School for the second time. Most of the students, however, come from other parts of the school. They have wintered in Florence and enjoy what society has to offer together with the study, and they also contribute to the community, becoming part of the community while they stay there. I began to wonder if something similar could not be considered, i.e. some sort of exchange school in Iceland. A number of Icelandic youths go to foreign countries each year as exchange students, both on their own and on their fellow workers, and usually that brings good results. Why, though, do we not allow this in our country? Why can't a youth from Kópavogur take one semester west at Ásafjörður, east at the Lagistur, or north of Akureyri? Why can't a youth in the Grinch take a semester or two in Hafnarfjördur or Mosfellsville? Is it not likely that this would expand the horizons of these youths? So it could be possible to think that this might be on both dormitories and homes, and that young people could either stay in private homes, i.e. The homes of other youths, or stay in your dormitories for distribution. Would the feeling of young people in the country, the life and work of people in other parts of the country, not increase? Would understanding different needs be increased? Tolerance? Could it be that an outpost would be reduced? I understand that there could be a practitioner that would have to be solved, but for that whole, it should be possible. Families would have the opportunity to live with new youths, and young ones would have the opportunity to live with a new family. And since this was within the country, it would not have to bring with it much extra expenses. We're always talking about thinking outside the box, and here's a good way to do that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u7	Mr. President. The team of naturalists in the North now unites to point out obstacles to these experts in the North. A report with financial support has been conducted by the Council of the Northern Countries on the status of these people in the Northern States. It turns out that there are strange obstacles to naturalists who want to work in the other North countries. So there are real barriers and not enough free flows of this unique labor. What turns out is that better parallels are lacking requirements for the education of naturalists in the countries. Some are in the European Union and others are not. This is also involved in the remuneration category, additional courses, etc. There's clearly a need for harmony. Writing is a problem. You have to shorten your license, and you have to set up electronic IDs. The family situation is one of these people. It takes e.g. to conform to the rights of the people in each country for children and such. Clearly, languages can be wrapped up in people, and more and better language courses are needed. Then it is requested, not by the government, but by members, that there are visitors to the trade unions in each country. The importance of naturalists is faced by a number of problems with resource use, increased emphasis on environmental protection and the climate crisis. Of course, naturalists are already filming key people for green society. I encourage governments to join the Norwegian government, solve these obstacles, and set matters in order for the free flow of naturalists to be within the North. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u8	A respectable president. The employment committee has been investigating the status of tourism and has been contacted by the executives of the European Commission for travel and travel management. This morning, we visited the National Institutes of Iceland and presented ourselves with what they have to do with them at the launch of Iceland in foreign fields and in investments in exports and creative articles. There's a lot to do in the tourism business. Even though there has been a relapse of WOWair's fall, the story seems to be straightening the cow again and although the source has changed, an aerodynamic reaction seems to be restoring balance. The region has been strengthening itself in tourism, and the Icelanders traveled more within the country for the summer than they have been. There has been an increase in hotel attendance and residence times, and the consumption of each tourist has increased. This is pleasant news, since the appearance was certainly dark in spring for this largest currency industry. We can expect a modest increase in the number of tourists next year, 3◯5%, which is, in itself, not bad, since we have to build wood in the rhythm of the tourist growth and drive the article in a sustainable manner. It presents a real challenge for natural tolerance in the most popular stage of the country when there are more than 2 million tourists per year, and we must shape policies that take into account natural tolerance, as well as social and economic factors. It is a pleasure to see that the overall policy of Iceland's agency is working with a number of people for the marketing of our exports and for the marketing of our home for investments on a wide range of employment instruments, such as biotechnology, creative articles, technology companies and food industry, to name something. All of this is a basis for sustainability. Government and sectoral activities on climate and green solutions are a major factor in the development and opportunity of a wide range of employment development and the aim for a joint objective, sustainable use.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u9	A respectable president. Police are at the foundation of society, and it is of utmost importance that the police as an organization and their jobs have trust and confidence, but they are not greeting these days and weeks. Eight of the nine police officers in the country, as well as the heads of the National Police Association, have declared that they did not trust the governor. This situation is intolerable, and it needs to be treated now, not after a few weeks. The situation that exists today cannot be resolved with so - called organizational changes. This is like trying to put a patch on a sponge wound. What has to be done now and what happens is that the Marshal is already disintegrating to restore confidence in the police work. If a newly appointed justice minister fails to respond by making a quick move, she will fail at the first test provided for it as a minister. I believe that the highest. The Minister of Justice will handle this case with authority and will arrange for the head of the state police to dislocate so that trust can be restored to the work of the police. You can't wait, Mr. President, it has to happen now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about one of the things at the top. Secretary of Education and Culture to take RUV out of advertising markets that have not been very much discussed. As we have seen in this room and in the media, the minister of the press intends to improve the annual billions of dollars of income that the public company will lose because of the idea of taking the RuV out of a commercial market. However, it remains unclear how a minister intends to improve this loss of income, although over a year has since introduced these ideas. One idea that the Minister has mentioned at the General Assembly is that there will be an adjustment between the Ministry's Environment and the loss. But what does that mean? In human language, this means operating in other institutions and services of the Ministry, i.e. in education and education, art and culture, sports, and contributions to science and youth, for example. So if you take a RUV of a commercial market, perhaps other agencies in the Ministry will have to pay for it. Then the question arises: How much is it going to cost to take a TV ballot out of a commercial market? Is it possible for lower donations in education, sports, art, and culture? What about the reduction in scientific proposals? Is that acceptable? Whose price is it? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u11	Mr. President. Acute systemic illness has been reported recently, i.e. Those who attend the hospital emergency department It's not a new debate, it's an old, repeated one. People and all the staff of the hospital are under great pressure and are doing their jobs with strength and ambition, as is true of all health - care professionals. It deserves much more praise and rewards than it receives and decreases in its terms sound like any other financier in the context of the parts today. After decades of participation as a health - care provider, I personally know this. The problem of the operation and the hard work of caring for you today is still significant, and of course the greater is at the Land Hospital, the National Hospital, also the County Hospital of Reykjavík. In fact, most people suggest that public health care is a substantial subsidies and that money is unremarkable. But then we turn to the private sector, as he's all right. The entire private sector is measured in detail, the price tag for all services. This applies equally to x-ray rooms, blood clinics, physical therapists, expert clinics, and private clinics. Everything is paid according to works and an account is given. Is that not true of Land Hospital? No. Or the hospital in Akureyri? No. But what about other health institutions in the country owned by the government? No, no, these institutions all get one line in the budget, one number, and the rulers virtually turn their prayers around for the next 12 months. In a careful report three years ago, Mckinsey pointed out that it did not work out, and long ago it was time to turn over, both more clearly define the role of the Land Hospital, the cost of to-dos, and pay the hospital according to this. You have to do what you should do at other levels in your medical care, such as the health care unit. or in nearby hospitals. Quit knitting with the system freehand. Health policy is now in session. Also available is the financial bill, which is faced with a recent picture: Halling in most parts of the public health system, business assurances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. It is simply unacceptable that public health agencies are not allowed to sit at the same table as the private ones. It's an unacceptable layer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir When Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir said something, she even said it. that we would have to cooperate with the nations in order to resist climate change. I deeply agree with her in this regard. I'd also like to stress that it really is our greatest allied European Union, one nation effort that has taken a completely uncircumcised position on the environment. But I agree, too, and I agree with the highest level. The prime minister who said yesterday at the UN Climate Conference that no longer made excuses. We need to respond now. That is why I must say that the talk disappointed me greatly. To be honest, we would hear new proposals for the government at the climate conference, that the ball had been seized as the UN Secretary - General when he said: "We have to do more. I expected the government to offer suggestions that translated more measures because, in view of the government's declaration, we, considering 2030, are about 29% less greenhouse gases. This will not work out according to the current government action programme for becoming non-carbon in the year 2040. We Icelanders need to do more, we need to create a comprehensive policy aimed at creating positive incentives, whether for transportation, public consumption patterns, or for anyone to name. During the council, we may begin by reflecting all the decisions made by the council and the government on those goals. Let us ask ourselves, " Is this particular decision to have a positive, negative, or neutral influence on the climate? ' If she's negative, we can just knock her down right away. If it is neutral, we can look for ways to improve it so that it eventually becomes positive. It is an assignment that we should be united, not divided. [[The president calls.]] We have a special goal, to become a non-carbon 2040. We need stronger and more action than the government has already proclaimed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u13	President. A report on the quality of life and the poverty of children in Iceland (U.S.A. 2004-2016) shows the following, with the permission of a president: ▪ Exploitors are probably the group that enjoys what is most desirable in Icelandic society, and their children are especially better off than children of single parents. The obvious way to reduce poverty disability is to increase the generosity of disability, reduce the degree of impairment, and reduce the burden of taxation. The poor live with limited work ability that hinders them from improving their interests. Social transfers bring many of them up to the low - income limit, but not too far up to them. Thus, the reality of many deserts and their children continues to be economic hardships and poverty. In view of the highest. The social and child - care minister will only raise the minimum paid in the community by 3.5%, from January 1, 2020, and does not intend to eliminate the conditions and declines that disability pensioners need to live with, I wonder what it takes to maintain poverty and why, in any way, we do not add more importance to calculating the cost. Research has been conducted in the United States to estimate the cost of poor society, and the cost has been estimated to be 5.4% of U.S. GDP. That's a lot of money. If we overpower that ratio in Icelandic GDP, this is about 150 billion a year, which may not be fair but puts it in a context. If we share that amount per adult person in Iceland, it is over 500,000 dollars. every year. It would simply be cheaper for society to give to all who live under or at the poverty limit of this coin, that would be more humane, it would be ◯win win. Suppose we're twice as good as the United States, just to be fair, this is still 75 billion, which is just what we put in the Land Hospital every year. President. The very purpose of these speculations is to highlight the importance of having that information about what poverty costs us because I cannot see the existence of this information. Should we not examine the negative consequences of decision - making ministers and the long - term consequences of society's long - term consequences? This is not unlike what is being discussed with climate and the environment, that we examine our decisions, how they affect, whether they are positive or negative to our long - term society. [[The president calls.]] That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u14	A respectable president. I'm kind of in the speaker's chair, just angry. How dare the General put a law in this council hall that grossly discriminates people so that they don't have any direction? There's a law for a citizen who gets paid up at 115,000 bar, a tow fruit, but who refuses to accept it when forced to accept it. Not only so, but these improvements are used to cut down special rents as well as regular rent payments. How far can we go to prey on those who cannot defend themselves? How can we allow ourselves to change the tows of punishment to reach 60, 70, and more than 100% of the individual, the sick, by law from the Council? It is clearly stated in the constitution that discrimination is forbidden. How can we have this kind of law? And that this is to be done so that hundreds of thousands of debts are founded because of the tow interest that ordinary people in the town can possess, a tow interest because they were overly inclined to pay their rights to these people. Since the State drew its feet for two years by paying for it, they could collect the tractors that they could use to steal the favors from the people. What kind of work are these? To our shame, I ask: How could we allow ourselves to do this? Why have we not changed this much in the first place? I speak from my own experience. Twenty years ago, I received 3.2 million compensation, which ended at 600,000 dollars. losing. What does that show? It shows that nothing has changed. [[The president calls.]] People get full benefits, and they take care not to spend them because they know they have to pay them back, as one sensible woman did and had to pay $12,000. More back than she got back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u15	A respectable president. On Friday, I had the privilege of listening to the Swedish fighter Greta Thunberg, representing 250,000 workers in Battery Park, New York. In her speech, Greta spoke of the actual action taken by the government on climate as she has done in the past year with marvelous success, and in her speech she gave little for national leaders, who simply prayed with her and talked about their admiration for her struggle. Greta said that she needed no admiration from the national leaders, that she wanted real and effective action right away to cope with the serious disaster that confronts the earth. I couldn't agree more. A respectable president. Piranha put environmental and climate activities first during this council, just like the last one. Our first concern was to promote the public's access to the protection of nature by suggesting that environmental organizations have a stronger legal standing when it came to reacting in the face of performance and thus be subject to specific legal projects, they should be held in charge of the Environmental and Resource Committee. Today, the Piranians will measure the effectiveness of carbon costs, which suggests that carbon taxes rise and decline according to the success of the Paris Convention's target on emissions. Finally, the Piranians will present themselves as their third priority in a green treaty, a political treaty that makes it possible for Iceland to really go out and prove its use at home and international in broad agreement for serious action on climate issues, it will be taken as soon as it is done in cooperation with other nations. Of course, it's best to start here at home, and it's what Pirantar and I want to do in cooperation with the entire U.S.R.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a government accountant's legislation and revise state bills. I present the bill on behalf of the International Presidency Committee, all of whom are assigned to the bill along with the audience members of the Archipelago and the Gangs. The bill clearly explains when the law on accountants and reviews, as is the law of No. 49/209, take to the staff of the National Reexamination Act, but the law will go into effect on January 1. and replace old law on accountants from 2008. Of 43rd. The Constitution, No. 33/144 leads to a review of the government's income, its institutions, its state of affairs by Generals and its agent for further instructions in the law. Is this a fundamental part of the AlCountry Fundament Board involved in its monitoring of the budget. In accordance with national accountant's legislation and review of state accounts from 2016, a state accountant shall be included in the review. He supervises government traffic, its institutions, its government companies. Is a state accountant, including hidden the annual accounts of partner and other partners in which the State owns half or more. According to 1st mg. Section 4. the legislation on current reviews and reviews, and, as stated previously, validation for next year's next year's review, shall be reviewed by an employment-registered accountant. Is accountants obliged to establish a business on the business of an accountant in the form they themselves choose and have a work permit for reexamination. There have been skeptics that the State's reviews and accountants who work for the office can reevaluate the annual accounts of the shares and partnerships in which the State owns half or more different from the members of a member of the State's Reexamination or joint workers of shrimp. The bill aims to eliminate such uncertainty and leave no doubt that a government accountant can enforce his or her legal duties without having to do so in a special partner. It is suggested in Article 21. legislation on the state accountant's auditor and review of the state's accounts that the legislation on accountants and review of the review of the review will only be carried out in an independent enterprise, as agreed by Article 1. The bill that reads, by permission of the President: ◯ At 1st. Twenty-one. A new proverb shall be added unto the law, saying, The law of the fourth. The law on accountants and reviews, however, does not apply to government accountants, public reexamination or officials of the office. In accordance with national accountants' legislation, it is assumed that those staff of the National Re-Election Act who have a legal basis for reviewing the current legislation on accountants in the extent that the law requires the revision by men having such rights. It should be emphasized that with the bill, there is no interference with the obligation of accountants working at the National Reconnaissance that their professional activities fall on the other side of the law on accountants and reviews when it comes to international standards for revision and regulations on practices and professional practice. If this bill is under the law, any doubts about the values of the law on accountants and reviews of the state accountant's law will be removed and the status of the State accountants, National Accounting and People's Office will be unchanged. Mr. President. I have now completed the reporting of the main elements of this bill, which is simple in format and suggest that this case be done for the management and monitoring committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u17	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the adjustment of various legal requirements due to the integration of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC on behalf of more part of the Economic and Business Committee. The greater part of the vessel says, Óli Haraldsdóttir Kárason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's Víglundsson, Brístísdótttir, Smári Mccarthy, Willum Þór Þórsson. The case is on it. 131, 131. June 20th. As law No. 92/209. At the same time, the General Assembly adopted a law on changing the law because of the unity of the Federal Bank and the SEC, as law No. 91/2019. A more significant part of the Economic and Business Committee (EC) to the sources, which became the above-mentioned law, stated that the greater part of the collection bill was modified by the reviews. This was due to the adjustment made after its contributions and to the protection of the F.O.P., so that it would require a change in parallel with the collection of the bill. Since it was not foreordained what would be the result of all the bills that had been observed after the composing of the museum bill and so on, more changes could be expected to be made by a new bill during the fall election. One, two, three, four, six, six, six, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, par. This bill allows for these changes and is created due to the implementation of a law on the freezing of funds, a law on the distribution of insurance, a law on the registration of real owners, a change in the law of payment services, and a law on the change in insurance agreements, as shown in the report. In provision for temporary I by law on the Federal Bank of Iceland, No. 92/2019, e.g. Permission to advertise and order the vice bank manager for January 1, 2020, despite the law's regulations. To eliminate any doubt that the arrangement for that command should be in accordance with Article 4. There's a law on the 7th floor. This is a bill suggested to reference to Article 4. The bank law adds the 1st sentence of provision for temporary I in the law. It is suggested that this law be obtained when it comes to value but that other aspects of the bill get value on January 1. Mr. President. I wish that after this discussion, the bill will go directly to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u18	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on the lack of tax pay less than 350,000 dollars. This is the third priority of the Presidential Council of 150th. I am the messenger of the proposal and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is with me. The scheme is as follows: The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretary to submit a law bill by the end of 2020, saying: 1st the recording of a falling personality discount and a no tax limit at 350,000 dollars. and that a personal discount falls at 927,087k. month (s) 2 that a personal discount falls after a curved process so that a venal point relative to a person's discount in the 2019 year of income is at 575,000 k. month (s) and month (s) 3 that there will be changes in the switch between exfiltration and income taxation taxes to equal the loss of income due to an increase in taxation boundaries between state and rural society. A bill report says, with permission from the President: ▪ In recent years, the Icelandic economy has prospered. At the same time, the government's financial status has improved, and prices have remained stable. Remuneration has also been positive. Despite the great success of recent years, there has been a lack of effort. In a report on the distribution of tax paid for the trade union and published in February. reports that between 1993 and 2015, the tax rate for the highest income groups decreased, while the tax rate for the lowest income groups increased. At the same time, real - estate prices have increased substantially, while the index of market housing has increased from 222.5 points to 43.6 points, according to the Economics annual average. The trend is worst for low - income professionals who have to spend most of their income in housing. The consequences include: in the number of tenants has increased, and later youths move from home. At the same time, the salary of the earners has increased substantially. More and more reports are coming from the superburst of various companies, and the heads of state have received considerable pay raise. The median pay is now about 441,000. a month, but the average income is considerably higher, about 553,000 k. according to the interest sheet's numbers. Action is needed to control the development of the past few years and to ensure low income groups adequate quality of life. There has been a lot of debate over the past few years about how to change the tax system so that it does not weigh the least income. These include proposals for increased stepchanges, property taxes, tax ratio reductions, and higher tax cutoffs. In addition to the above, there has also been an increase in tax-free intervals and in terms of falling personality discounts. A drop in personality discount means that after the taxation margin is reached, the percentage decrease in the percentage of persons is in accordance with the increase in income until it drops to the upper limit. Changing the local tax system and taking in a fallen person's discount can increase taxation limits considerably and make up for loss of income with higher tax rates for high income workers. This suggests an increase of $350,000. per month. At the same time, as income increases, a person's discount decreases until he finally falls completely at 927,087 k. a month's pay or at the upper tax level limit for the current system. It is suggested that a personal discount be followed by a curved process and that a venal point be at 575,000 dollars. in monthly revenues. This means that a person's discount starts out faster than that. Then the payoff of the current coin, 56,447 kr. in a month, when each month's income is 575,000. Thus, the change results in increased provisional provisions for those who earn less than 575,000. in a month, but the personal discount of those with more than one month's income will be lower than it is currently. In September 2018, a report on the equation was published in the tax system that was prepared for the Party of the Gangs. The report contains calculation at the expense of the state's budget by raising tax-free limits to 300,000 dollars. a month and a falling character discount. It was determined that a personal discount fell at 970,000 K. a month's pay and an end to the current figure of a person's discount would be at 562,000 dollars. The conclusion of the report was that by the change, the income of the country and its partners would decrease by 32 billion dollars. An increase in tax deficiency from 300,000 to 350,000. As suggested in this synonym, there is an increase in this loss of income but a reduction in the upper limit. In accordance with the proposal, special attention should be paid to the fact that the cost of this operation is evenly distributed between government funds and rural society. The bill may thus require adjustments in the calculation of an answer. It is likely that most of the loss of income is on the shoulders of rural society, which have less leeway than a government fund to cope with it. It is suggested that the change be made as a guarantee that income loss will be divided between state funds and rural society by the percentage of the average response to income tax. A respectable president. I'm happy to make an order for this council mishap. I expect the government and the highest. The minister of the economy is proud to take this into his arms and really work out the proposal as it is presented. We're talking about people who work full-time at low-employing jobs - I've received a lot of pay money, which I don't have here and now and won't show them in this prestigious debate - but thinking that people who work full-time, eight hours a day, 40 hours a day of work, will be paid only about 262,000,2284,000. I'm talking about the underpayers of the country. They get under 300,000 bucks. paid. Can you imagine? At the same time, we found it easy to accept a 43% raise on a single board when the advice of a coward came up with its famous conclusions on how much we were valued and how much our income would have to be. It is not pleasant to see today's vast class distinctions in the country. It is intolerable that 50% of all employees in this country have 441,000 dollars. or less on income from Iceland's Habitat. What does it mean in paid pay? That's right, more than 300,000 bucks. Then we wonder, or at least, You might think that those who work here at the High Council just don't believe that more than 10% of our children suffer a degree of lack. I can't believe that we're actually that sort of built-up and that kind of stuff. If we were really conscious and believed that 10% of children were poor and lacking, we must try to do something about it. The slow walk that has been at the High General Assembly what is expected to meet those who are in front of me is totally unacceptable and completely past. It reflects no promise or expectation. Councilmen and the highest. The local ministers gave the nation before the last election. That's pretty clear. As I've said before and will continue to say it is simply that it must be normal for us to join together for a certain matter and try at least Doing what we can to accomplish it. One of those cases is 350,000. Minimum pay for a full-time job, paid off. All the priorities of the mob are instigated by the elimination of poverty. Most of them come in the form of a synonym in order to give us a chance to join in any group we really are and to follow them. When I present this case, it's now five o'clock. Councilmen, with me, of 63. At times, almost no one has been interested in the matters we have been predicting. It is really more painful than tears when it is shown such an obvious disregard for what we are trying to fight for. It went a long, respectable president that when we spoke here at the top of the conference. Prime Minister - I spoke for more than eight minutes who all pointed out that we had nothing to offer at the time the present government has worked, what is involved in helping people who truly live in distress and who are taxed in desperate poverty. I didn't talk about anything else. Hv. Councilmen of the left green laughed to your face, sat here, laughing as they talked about how things were. I'm not saying everybody did it, but two. It's a wonder if some senator thinks it's funny when a political party is founded to try to eliminate poverty, but at the same time talk about #metoo and not talk about harassment and other things, to have to stand here in this respectable chair and listen to giggle and laughter about what you're preaching here. It's the last black thing to do. This may be some of the things that you will consider in the past. In this case, the third priority of the movers, we are talking about the lack of tax pay less than 350,000 dollars. I know that no one is too happy about what works full-time. Nobody. I'd like to see it. A general would come up here and say that someone would be happy and too good for receiving $350,000. Minimum extension. But the fact is, a respectable president, that all we give the nation today, all the employees living in the land, and the poverty in this country is a work of men. It's in our hands, and no one else is going to destroy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recommending this proposal. It agrees with a suggestion made twice before. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. It was brought here last year without being involved in the discussion by the present members of the Flocks. It is not customary for a person to take a case held by a seated senator during the past council and to make it his own, except perhaps by an agreement there, and therefore I will take it for granted. A senator said that she and another member of the people had been relieved to come together for a deal and agree to deliver this case the third time. [[Up front.]] - I'm going to ask the president to make a good impression at the meeting. As I said before, this case was taken almost unchanged at the 148th and 149th legislature. Hv. A senator mentioned how important this matter that I completely agree with her, and I would like to ask why she and another member of this fine party did not seek to come together with the one who had previously offered the proposal almost unchanged, so I would like to ask her why she and another senator did not try to get a broader solidarity behind her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u20	A respectable president. I've never really been able to see others feel as rude as they have since then. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. This case, the lack of taxation of pay less than 350,000 k, which has been taken twice by the then United States Parliament of the Stockholm people, who were disfellowshipped from the Gang of the People after sitting with several of their present friends at the Caucar Bar, happy memories. The crowd paid high for 1 billion. K. for the calculations that followed that suggestion. We were the nature of the case according to the movement with the reason. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson as his associates in the Gang of the People then. I don't know what road trip. A senator is when he brings these innuendos. If we at The Gang of the People have to start looking for contracts about a case we've worked absolutely and paid for, I think most shelter is in. I don't think the Central Party would like to know that we were taking care of him a case that he'd paid the experts to set up. I'd appreciate it if it was a very strange thing to do. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u21	Mr. President. To answer this alleged insolence, there is a proposal here for interpretation from the 149th legislation Council, i.e. last year, consistent with the one presented here. It tells us that the transporters are Ólafur Ísleifsson, Árnadóttir Kolbönnadóttir, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Inga Sæland and Karl Gauti Hjaltason. It's the same proposal as they're now making. I say again: If men are concerned with having a solid agreement here on a matter, and it was not in men to agree with this proposal in the previous year, although they did not participate in the discussion at the time, why not seek ways to get along with others who have a similar interest and to improve support for the proposal being discussed here? I reiterate that it has not been customary to accept the suggestions of other shipping agents from one or two years ago and to study with them by having at least one. a relationship with the individual. This may not be appropriate. A senator, then he must have it. These are the facts presented here, and this was the case. It is better if we are fighting for those who are remembered for what we are interested in doing, seeking solidarity, and who are not helping in this room right now. Like what? A senator put it so well, we must agree to work on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u22	A respectable president. I'm kind of getting a complete pass. I can't figure out how to go. paritaprevir Sæmundsson on, unless he's on the moral rhythms of the central class alone. In this case, former U.S. Haukur Arnþórsson was granted the privilege of recommending the proposal. In case of a moment. A senator thinks that I'm going after the Middle Class for some reason is the greatest misunderstanding. On the other hand, you are always welcome to support the good things presented by the people's members. Hv. A senator is also well aware that when four or more members of the council are in a group, not all of them can speak as they please in the publicist's public stand. I wasn't in the second session when we made that suggestion. I was my most distinguished member of the council, Guðmundur In Kristinsson. I guess I didn't say anything because I just wasn't in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u23	A respectable president. We'll discuss the Senate resolution of the people for the lack of tax pay less than 350,000. In itself, we are not talking about anything more in human language than about the gigantish tax returns to wage earners from 1988. The fact is that at the beginning of local pay, in 1988, those on the lowest salary paid no taxes. It is quite remarkable how the pay plate is in general. The VR website contains a 14-year-old pavilion of 178,000 K. in a month, and for 17 - year - olds, up to 255,000. During a month that is a salary for the average pension, the majority of the poor people who are about 247,000 dollars. And I'll give you $215,000. by tax. The initial pay for shops at VR is 287,408 k. in months and after five years 315.264 k. That is well up to 350,000. which we're talking about being a tax-free pay that shows how ridiculously the lowest salary has been paid. There's been a system on how to raise the pay and that's called biographies. ASI Web reports that April 1, 2018, the minimum wage is 317,000 dollars. But in the year 2022, they are to be held at a total of 368,000 dollars. Well, that's a disaster for all of us. We really need to make a move just to get our salary into what we're talking about should be paid minimum wage, tax free today, if properly given. We often forget about 300,000 bucks. The minimum wage for today's lowest salary will be paid, after taxation has been taken and other expenditures have been reduced by about 230,000. It tells itself that it is not a suit for two individuals on the lowest salary, with 4 60,000 dollars. In a month total, to survive it. In most cases, these people pay, even over, 50 to70%, of this pay on the rent. About 200,000 bucks. This combined pay accounts for 50% of the houses. Then I'll pay for all the rest. Then there's the personal discount. We'll change him so that he doesn't walk up the stairs. We realize that for those of the highest wage of the two million, a personal discount of more than 50,000 will be divided. It's no big deal. He is so small of their wages that it was only natural that individuals with such a high salary would have no personal discount. That's why we're here to start cutting off the personal discount at 575,000. Substitute ones get the most out of the motions, and those above are slowly affected. At 970,000 a.m. a month's income will be a point of habit where a personal discount will fall. Thus, most members of Congress would become part of a group that would not receive the personal discount. It would be most acceptable if it would return to those who truly need it. This arrangement has been established by the people's party from the beginning. It was a long time before the time of the Conspiracy proposal and ideologies. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson had come to Beck the people. That proposal had already come up, and it had long since begun to be on the program. There is no compromise, and it is perfectly clear that there is a group of people who brought this issue into play. It is the group of people who had it calculated and made a careful report on how much this would cost, and it is the company of the people who paid for that report. That's why it's amazing that the Central Party owns the case and the debate that the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson has used in a pontta that the party of the people is robbing something from someone is so far out of the maps that it's got something quite different. The subject of whom. A senator should examine himself as he looks back at the time when he was using a committee about a so - called revision of social security. Who, then, were left behind? Who got a cent against a crown? Who were left behind and could not receive a penny in return? They were cripples. When people claim to be fighting for the worst, it is clear that a group of people was formed to do so and that they focus on just fighting for the worst in this society, older citizens, disability, and low-payers. We will continue to do so, and we will not hesitate one second to present a case that is our case from A to Z, and has always been. Individual senators have come to realize that an amazing performance at a bar was discussed in this hall, and we expelled them from the category because we had the rules of the party to expel them. As a result, it is very strange that the same individuals will then decorate with the feathers of the people's party and have paid for it. That's not acceptable. This is a good thing, and hopefully it will succeed because it is of the lowest value so that it has little chance of living in decent terms. Rather than the strange propaganda that some people are stealing something, we should focus on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech that he could have held last year on the same subject if he had participated in the discussion on which he did not. It must be said, as it is, that this suggestion is in itself good, based on a suggestion that has already been proposed twice before. Interestingly, though, it is relatively watered up, and the report that follows this proposal does not have a similar look in sight compared to the previous initiative and was very careful about the development of tax burden - related trends, especially average carpentry and lower income groups. This does not address her as such. I've got to figure out what to do. A senator. I didn't say anything about stealing in my opponent earlier. However, I said that it would have been a form of practice if they adopted the suggestions made by the local senators to consult with them members of the council, or members of the council, who had made the proposal before. It's just a rule that's been honored. The word stealing or such things did not come from my mouth in this sermon. I'd like a president to pay attention to that. If it's been said in my objection earlier that I've loved people for stealing, I'd appreciate the fact that the president kept it under observation, but I'd like to call the president's attention to it that it's not, it's not, it's not, it's been presented as if I traced it down earlier. You should be careful about such a battle. But that doesn't change it, as I say, that the matter is well and good. However, I would suggest by itself that they focus on the proposal, as did last year's proposal, assuming that these laws would be performed by the end of 2018. The proposal now assumes that the necessary adjustment to make the proposal will be made before the end of 2020, after a year and a half. This seems to me that men should only look and sharpen, especially when the proposal is to treat a committee, because I think that all of us can agree that the poor have an opportunity in Iceland and the most needy are not to wait for justice, as mentioned in the talk of that incident. A senator and his current highest. Three years ago, the prime minister of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir Hence, it is very important that the steps taken for those most in need are as fast and as sure as possible. I noticed, though it is not related to this matter, yet there is none having to do with it. A senator spoke of a committee I was conducting after a fall. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bömells on a review of the social security system. The senator asked: "Who were the ones that were left behind? " Yes, he said, there were cripples. This is because the Committee did not establish a solid solution, despite the fact that a member of the Committee held the conclusions and reports for probably two months, if I recall correctly, in an attempt to achieve complete solidarity on the subject. This perfect solidarity was not achieved due to the disability of disability, i.e. Then, along with groups on the left, the microengineering alliance would not want to take part in handling the matter. However, older ones did so and received some relief by taking care of the situation. It is not the responsibility of the one mentioned here that a representative of the Commission and/or the Quantum Community did not want to end the matter then. It is not the responsibility of the person being listed here but the responsibility of the representatives of the Quantum Community of the Committee and the Qualification Alliance itself. However, it is very sad that this lack of solidarity was not then achieved, and it is very sad that the poor will be left behind because of it, and it seems that it is still difficult to set matters aside in a good way. It has not survived on a committee that has just been completed. A senator was a member of one of the chairs of the council. True, there were no reports of any other categories of what happened in that committee until the result was obtained, but the result was not as practical now as it was, unfortunately, and would not have survived. When complex issues are being worked, they simply deal, and they take time, and they require a great deal of agreement and trust. Of course I understand that, e.g. Presently, representatives of the disability committee currently do not have confidence in existing governments and existing social and child - care ministers. I understand that. It wasn't about the case we're discussing here. We are naturally involved in higher tax limits in Iceland. In itself, we do not need to compare it with anything else. We do not need to compare it with any increase in pay received by members of Congress and now have not been frustrated. Our mission is not to create some conflict between income groups in society. On the contrary. Our job is to bridge the very best we can. We do not do so by making statements in a public hearing that it is terrible that members of Congress have received and received a pay raise. I think it's perfectly clear. It is also shocking for humans to come in the public address, such as the ostensibly. paritaprevir Sæland Howil back then, and speaking down to the morality of the Middle Party. I congratulate her on being above that morality. I think it must be worth something. Every day it becomes clear what morals are like for members of the council here. I think it's fine for us to pay attention to it every day. But saying so, I repeat that if you have a problem. The members of Philok's people would have been impressed, and they wanted to join other members of the council on this matter and may well have seen evidence before the matter was presented. It doesn't mean that you're in the middle of the people taking up this program for somehow being twisted on this matter. I don't know that there's been a search for, like, e.g. The Central Party supported this case or that we members of the Central Party were party members. I don't know if we'd responded well if it had been sought. But I say again: This matter is a little watered up compared to what was submitted, e.g. last year and year before that. Still, the matter is good, and hopefully we'll be well paid up here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech, and I would like to state immediately that I apologize if I have said anything wrong about stealing. I apologize again. But it's a little strange if we look in the rearview mirror at the why. A senator finds that there is no bill based on this case until the end of 2020. This is one of the five priorities of the Gangs. They are now entering one by one, and at the end they will come up with a case that will explain exactly how we are going to finance the entire package of our welfare. There's gonna be a good explanation for how all of this is going to work out and how we're going to finance it. So there's no difference that we're going to prove it, and we're going to use the logic of all the calculations we need, and especially those we've already paid for in the Gang of the People. Hv. In this regard, a senator may find it strange why we have not received the Ólafur Ísleifsson or the Central Party. This is simply because the individuals in the middle category were in close proximity, that they would join him. The middle class was bringing in men from other categories, which I can't imagine as a moral or normal practice for a council. But it may well be that I do something wrong there, and I just ask: Is it normal to use other groups of government against government? [[The president calls.]] Is that a natural treatment for the Central Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u26	Mr. President. Because the senator asks if there's anything to do with operating people into other categories, we're all adults in here and we make decisions about it. On the other hand, I'd like to call the senator's attention to the two fine dogs. Parliaments who added to the Central Party party recently joined the Central Party after their own party had expelled them from their midst. When they joined the Central Party, they were non-class members of Congress who had actually been on the run because as soon as they were expelled from their council, they lost their office house and, as you say, they were, on their own boat, in the absolute sense. So all talk of the Central Party working on people - they're all welcome there, well. Senator. Of course, we welcome any good team member who joins the Central Party. I can totally believe that more members of the council will follow the two so far who have joined that great party. But I just want to draw attention to what. The senator realizes that when these two gentlemen joined the Central Party, they were out of category because their own people had expelled them from their council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I know why. A senator was not at that synagogue and with the discussion that took place in a Claudiar in his day. But much has been said in the media since then. He may feel that what happened there has not been enough reason to expel the individual from our category, men who were protruding to leave our ranks, and go over to the middle party drinking at the same time as the budget was in the discussion here 100 yards away. I don't know. This may be something they think is quite normal, but we in The Gang of the People don't. We had this chloasma. We fired them because of it. What filled my meter and caused it to take 12 hours to decide to drive them out of the company was the final speech when they thought that they were going out of this four - hour drunken, lava over everything, everyone, women in absurd ways as we know and thanked each other so much for a wonderful evening and good conversation. If that's the point where you have to make it into the Central Party, they're welcome there. But my moral code and our people are at the point where we don't accept things like this and we don't contact the people who act like that and we're not in any agreement with them and we won't be. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u28	Mr. President. I'm going to start by asking the senator to be pleased with me that I did not accept his apology earlier, which I gladly apologized to. I'll start with that. Now, the man here wasn't standing at Clacobar that night, not paying attention to the discussions, did not participate in them, he was actually located here in president's chair that night, so I wasn't present at what was going on there. But I have never defended it, and I will never do it, and I have not detracted from the shame that went on there. But I now believe deep down inside that all men and women have a chance to make a decision, and that's exactly what I believe those who were there have done that has been repeated. Of course, whether they still have the trust outside the house that they have been shown here in the future will be evident. That's what we heard in two years. Of course, they and the entire assembly will execute that judgment when it falls. I have not personally put into practice the discussions that were conducted, so that the accounts of which have not been written. The senator of these I take to heart. However, media coverage of this matter is quite different, and I have not put it into practice. In that respect, I think we can understand that this is a time of reconciliation, me and what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u29	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a policy on a merit tax bill. We're suggesting that credit be reimbursed by local irrigation services and then the bill reads: 'At 3 mgr. 2.g. The law adds up to a new figure, which says, "Communication agencies. This law is expected to be approved by the bill, already valid on January 1, 2020. An article with the bill says that it was submitted to a 149th legislature, and we didn't settle it, and it's now reinvented. It is safe to state here, a respectable president, that the reviews of the case were very positive, and much of the community was stressed that this could get through. The report says: It is part of the legal public service of the local community, outside the competitive environment. For details on the duties of a member of this category of law on building and operating, No. 9/2009, with subsequent changes. As a result, irrigation projects meet the standards generally set for reimbursement of the cost tax and argue that the tax due to such rural projects will be fully reimbursed. A Change in Values Treaty, No. The 50/1988 includes a full reimbursement of credit taxes due to irrigation. The definition of submission is given in 3 mg. 2.g. The law is quite different. Thus it can be said that social and health issues of the accessories of the 1st and 2s, technical views on the 7th and 10th counts, social and technicalities in the 3rd and 9th terms, etc. Compared to other nations, Icelanders are not sufficiently in the treatment of sewage and irrigation disorders in general. Environmental issues are put in the Treaty of the Government, which says that there is a need for a high level of irrigation in cooperation between state and rural society, but there is a great need for building up in this category, especially in the country. The object of reimbursement, if available, is not available, but is likely to be dedicated by the postpartum of the project established by the legislation on the support of sectoral services, No. 53/1995. At the time of that law, the government's support has taken over 2,000 million. K. and was the largest first to be supported. Since 2008, little has been done on a new network. Most of the largest rural communities have completed their construction work, however, several small and medium-sized rural areas have not yet begun. General law modification like this, which includes a full reimbursement of cost taxes due to irrigation management, is a suitable option for the transporter assessment. By bill this, the plan is that the state fund provides support for the irrigation process by paying for the part of the work expenses that would otherwise be due to its worth tax. However, the loss of the government's Internet will be negligible if the bill becomes a law. It is difficult to see that the rural communities are financing themselves in this area without the government's financial support. The motion is not entirely new. A report published in 2010 on reimbursement of the cost tax to the rural community was provided. The report suggested that the Commission be taken into account the cost of a community member that is derived from the payment of a valuable tax from a irrigation project. The committee considered two ways to be an option in this regard, i.e. that state funds would reimburse the rural communities a valuable tax that depended on the desired operation or that the rural community would receive increased funds, e.g. Through a local community budget, to cover expenses paying a valuable tax of projects. This bill suggests that the former route will have been completed, with most of it becoming simpler. A respectable president. Here is an important issue that has been brought here at the General Assembly and is given much emphasis on the part of the local community. Thus the European Parliament concluded that it was important for the Council to try to complete this matter. These are expensive projects, and it is quite clear that there is a wide pot broken, particularly in small and medium-sized rural areas, as shown in the accompanying report. So it's important that we finish this matter. In this case, a part of the government covenant is being fulfilled and a powerful step is being taken. Many rural societies face this issue, even waiting and preparing for them. If this becomes a reality, we can expect a new campaign of this important class to start. Along with me in this matter are Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Vilmurmá Árnason, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjinnsdótir, and Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevardótir. I suggest that the case be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u30	Mr. President. This is a very important matter, such as why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson mentioned before I did. This is, as we sometimes say, an old friend of the past few years. The drainage cases are over the head a very large extract. Though we are relatively small in a large country, there are urban areas and many sensitive receptors. This has to do with water quality and purity in our environment, both in the sea and in the land. As was also noted in the course of the pa·rou·siʹa. There are various places where this has been going well. There are good receptors on spillages, or decent, often seawater itself. There are other locations, especially land lanterns, where the receptor is sensitive and solutions are much more difficult. It is also important to remember that the type of cleansing equipment is involved, that it is not only septic but also complex technology, first, second, or third degree cleaning, as is often mentioned. Even the release of microplastic diseases can be removed. This is a report comparing Iceland and Sweden, and it was found to be in the most densely populated areas in Reykjavík and Sweden, on the other hand, in larger cities, microplastic pollution in emissions is much higher here than in Sweden. This is one of the issues to take into consideration. Mr. President. I come up here to explain that I really like this suggestion as far as it goes. I agree that the participation of the State is necessary in this category. Depending on how we do this, with worthy tax deduction or otherwise, it's hard to predict for the time being what the money is being asked to fail a government fund; it's definitely high at all, I'm not going to reenact it. My main concern was to tear down the situation in the administration system because I specifically investigated it. Then I'd like to report that a very recent government memo was provided, and the subsequent decision was made to establish a working group on the subject. These include representatives from the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Ministry of finance and the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, as well as experts. His mission is to map the source of the shoe. We know, of course, that there are several societies that need this help. What kind of requirement must be met in this waste matter, or their waste, what regulations must be met, and how to clean, etc.? It is then the task of this committee to estimate the cost of government support and, in particular, to eliminate the value tax from projects. Mr. President. This matter has come into play, and it is clear that whatever it may be, it must not be late. This is an important part of the environment. In Iceland, discharges are supposed to be fine. We're focusing on food production, the purity of the country, travel services, etc. There is much work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u31	Mr. President. I bring here a bill for a change in income taxes from 2003. This is one of the priorities of the left green, and we like to call it a carbon balance deduction. Further to me are Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helgi Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Línika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Óli Bjöli Björn Kárason and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. The bill reads: ▪ At 31. The law adds up to a new number, as follows: carbon balance productions, but not more than 0.85% of revenues per B team 7. in the year the contributions are made. This refers to operations for carbon balance as well as forest development funding, healing work, and recovery of wetlands. In addition to funding, self-employment institutions and organizations that work on carbon balance, practical projects that are being treated by companies in cooperation with funds, private institutions, and organizations, and do not pay for them. In addition, the cost of implementation, such as food and transportation, is considered for volunteers working in a company for carbon balance. The minister must establish further regulations regarding the procedure of the procedure. This bill was submitted to the last assembly of 149th legislature, and is now submitted by changes in accordance with indications received. The United States has set progressive goals on climate matters. The first step will be taken by agreeing with the Paris Convention's commitment to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The second step is to reach the position of becoming a non-carbon community by 2040. Neither goal will be achieved without the active cooperation of a country, a community, a job life - and I stress it, professional life and public. The action taken in the Karinhn Katrín of Jakobsdóttir is an increase in carbon binding. It has one of the greatest reductions in forest development and inflation of deforestation and ill - treated vegetation. Resuscitation and use of wetlands has been identified as an effective procedure to bind greenhouse gases and reduce emissions. A new approach to pumping carbon gas into rocks and forming rocks has attracted attention and may also be suitable for these activities, especially in energy - carrying industrial plants. The review of the Action Programme is under way and there is a defined goal as each year's budget is considered to be covered. It is very important to take part in all sectoral activities in the battle against global warming. I mention a covenant called Paris, not the Paris Convention, but a covenant made there as cities and big companies, including them. Reykjavík, take part in reducing emissions and carbon binding. Similarly today, there are new reports of 19 companies and firms in Akureyri who came together to do the same. It is obvious that this enterprise applies equally to the business itself, and that it stresses this matter, to companies'contributions to forestry, to land recovery and recovery of wetlands. The donations can be in the form of a carbon balance between enterprises in cooperation with Kolin, which I expect many people to know, the collaborative agreement on carbon binding to e.g. The volunteer or land healing, as well as the participation, strengthens the organization and institutions that work at this level, etc. Apart from the land - healing process, I would like to mention other examples, such as the Forest or Forest Farmers, as well as the newly formed or young Votland Fund. There is also a company for e.g. The construction industry or heavy - equipment projects have shown an interest in the recovery and recovery of wetlands without getting paid. Of course, their contribution would be valued for financial gain. This is the cost of operating and using tools and costs for the travel and food of employees. I'd like to mention two things that I consider a few new moments away from the fact that this case was first delivered. There's an EEA adoption coming to the Department of State Congress in November discussing cooperation in specific areas within the so-called four freedoms, a change in 31 books with the EEA Convention. There are two main points that I'm going to get a trace. On one hand, greenhouse gas emissions and greenhouse gases will be allowed to drop from changing land use and forestry into the climate and energy framework until 2030. However, due to the implementation of binding annual reductions in emissions of EU greenhouse gas from 20213/42030, Member States will be required. In other words, minimal measures are being made in terms of annual emissions. This is good because it increases efficiency. The other point I would like to mention is the wetlands talk here about the benefits of reducing emissions from the most advanced swamps or wetlands, and increasing binding there, in terms of professional consultations. It has been noted that these efforts have been questioned and that they would not accept foreign figures, which have actually proved to be somewhat correct, but nevertheless professional counselors need to be taken into account, taking into account the different binding capacity of tree species in forestry and their growth rate, since all these measures need to be climaxed by the best scientific advice each time. We also have to remember the value of wastes that are supposed to be healed but are not, and the value of a damaged or highly damaged land. There is a particular element that we have come to see the first sign of a conflict that involves the cooperation of rural partners and those who go into the recovery of wetlands, i.e. the importance of this and the importance of agricultural land and the importance of wetlands. That's where we need to see if this cooperation is not working properly. I'm just going to mention, too, that the conditions for making use of the cost of deduction are the means by which contributions are actually useful in carbon balances and that donations are directed to a lawgiver in order to receive such a contribution. The bill suggests that a minister should set up a regulation on the implementation of the law, such as measures that are useful for carbon balances, whether or not the accounting duties of a party, company or tax-related entity should be provided with confirmed information on these contributions, contributions, what they include and what their nature, e.g. as I mentioned earlier when recruiting, e.g. At the time of your volunteer service, or the contributions to your own business, which is useful for carbon balance. All of this is important and must be taken into account in this Regulation. Finally, I would like to comment on related issues that I would like to call factors of facts in climate. There are recent cases in the conference room where statements are freely made that are supposed to be facts but that do not meet criticism. Then I refer to the words of the director of the International Weather Protection Agency, who were twisted and twisted. I mention a word that is being eliminated the facts about hurricanes and tropical denominations, a word that the eco-causing of liquid gas used in energy is less or more than the eco-couple of wind gas, etc. These are things that have the echoes here, but they testify that they either question the effects of climate change, the causes of climate change, or anything else that turns around them. If the wording on climate matters does not support the facts of criticism, it will result in minimizing the counterweight measures we have to take into consideration, whether that is emissions or binding, minimizing the need for green taxes and their impact and minimizing the counteraturities in the climates that have been approved and in the water, and of course we need to increase. They end up beinglittled about what is well done. Similarly, they minimize what is intended for adaptation, whether it is a possible national fund or operation and climatic planning, etc. I just want to reiterate that whether it's related to this matter of benefits from taking between 0.85 percent of revenues from income tax or a much larger case in the lake that's being brought even today and at this council over our heads, we must not proceed ourselves to deport scientific conclusions but to do everything we can to maintain facts and values. Because in the end the kind of language, that moderation, is important to building bridges between different groups of people with differing views on climate. It's our hope that by this I would like to call a little bill a good portal to react to the climate threat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u32	President. I'm one of the movers, so I'm very happy. I'm not going to waste my time getting better into the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson did so very well in his history. All I want to do is celebrate the action that took place. A senator shows that he is working and putting this matter into practice and that he is causing others to suffer. Councilmen have made a connection between these issues. You see, as with many of us who have been involved in climate discussion, there is not one thing to do when it comes to them. It simply requires doing all that is beneficial. Although our administration order is that this group is under certain departments and including the highest standards. Ministers are these matters of the magnitude and so wide that no one alone can overlook them, much less the solutions needed to respond to the situation. That is why it is so important for all of us who are involved in politics and who are in the position to bring up a matter, and as all of us in society, to promote our ideas to action, solutions, and steps that can be taken and used in these matters. It is our common responsibility to be found here in the Hall of Congress. We're supposed to welcome everybody's proposals, and I wanted to do it especially in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal for the development of economic incentives to promote energy crops in Iceland. The first carrier, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir, along with the one present, are the carriers of Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarddóttir, Willum Þórarinn Ingi Þórsson, and Pétursson. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide transport and rural management ministers in order to order groups to build and implement economic incentives to support energy production in order to produce fuels (bidisils) that will be used on ships instead of fossil fuels. The programme will be in accordance with national environmental-friendly energy policies in the Parliamentary resolution of No. 11/149 on the transport plan for 2019 constitutes 20203 and the interpretation date No. 10/149 of the five-year transport programme for 20191⁄223. The plan of action, with the proposal that its implementation will be no later than March 1, 2020, will be presented to the General. The effectiveness programme should include: take a look at the application of the following economic incentives: 1 farm farming, which uses land which is not used for other crops to grow energy plants, 2. Strengthen to harvest and harvest energy plants, 3 will help build up facilities for cleaning and drying the seeds of energy plants, 4. Fortification of storage and equipment for the preservation of energy plants, 5 strengthens for building up equipment to produce goods from the plants' seeds of energy, 6. Strengthens for marketing and distribution of energy production products. This proposal suggests that transport and rural government ministers will be assigned to appoint a team of workers to shape and implement an economic incentive to support the basis for the breeding of eutrophication of quifers and neopoles which will be used in the production of benzos. In 2008, experiments began to produce domestic environmental energy supply through the Sports Institute of Iceland. As a result, in 2013, when a Navigator's organization entered a Grouping Office, this project was continued in that field and has been since then. The research project was quick to focus on the growth of energy plants, and the work of the plants was being done and subjugated. In particular, the reason for these species was that they were cultivated for energy and other crops in the northly regions of the country, and it was important to see if they could have been used in a country where environmental energy sources are sought and applied wherever possible. It is fun to tell you that your efforts are promising. In many countries there is good progress in farming and farming, and there seems to be no basis for using the products in the same way as in other areas where these plants are cultivated for use. Because of the production of oils and fertilities, a new field of agriculture is in this country, it is essential to support the development of these sectors while achieving the development and strength of self - control. In breeding and processing of grass and bottom, there are three main products: oil, food flour, and poles. Oil is about 15% of the mass of life, the meal flour is about 35%, and the stems are about 50%. The rods are used to carry farm animals, as well as eco-friendly and organic manure on farms and fields. The mother's flour has a high degree of protein, so it is beautifully fitting for cattle and pigs and fish fish. Oil can be used as fuel for machines that burn diesel and also for cooking. The oil can be used on a larger diesel machine without changing it but should not be used on smaller diesel engines the oil heaters that heats the salt oil into 50 to 70°C before entering the engine's fuel system. Bolus is easy to use as an incorporation agent in mineral oil and is often done in proportions from 5 to25%. This is likely to be the case with the oil, particularly as energy source. At present, a fishing fleet uses some 1 60,000 tons of mineral oil every year and is totally dependent on this energy source. Icelandic research has therefore been designed to determine whether and where the needs of the fishing fleet could be met by new and environmental energy sources within the country. Efforts have shown that each haphazard country produces about one ton of ointment. Thus, to meet the current use of the fishing fleet on diesel oil, energy plants would have to grow in some 1 60,000 acres [150,000 ha] of the country, or some 1,600 square miles [600 sq km]. In contrast, each year about 4,000 tons of mineral oil are being used by road transport. The same amount of plant oil could be produced in 4,000 acres or 40 square miles [40 sq km]. The Repay does not count as a groundwork force and thrives, e.g. ... wellbeneficiaries and low-level ground. It could therefore be used well as part of a country's construction process, especially sand, by sowing lice in the sand and plowing them down before they have formed seeds. The lulodipine residues contain nitrogen, phosphorus, and other nutrients used by the plant, and in this way it can be converted to an ideal supply land for energy plants. The oil produced from aquifer developed here on the country is a domestic source of energy. Such production would therefore promote the energy security of Iceland, where the land would not be as dependent on the availability and prices of mineral oil as it is today. The production of oil from quifers thus involves economic benefits, but the main concern is that the use of mineral oil has far less adverse effects on the environment than on the use of mineral oil. As plants grow, they bind about six tons of carbon dioxide in a single hectare land. We burn on the oil supply of one acres [3 kg] of carbon dioxide back into the atmosphere, but half of what plants put into them goes back to the soil when they are used as food for farming. Thus, the use of oil from seeds is made to bind more carbon dioxide than a fire on the oil, but this is well - known to be the opposite of the burning of mineral oil. The annual emissions of the fishing fleet on carbon dioxide accounts for about 500,000 tons per year. If 30% of the fuel used on the fishing vessels were oil, it would be possible to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of commercial fishing vessels by nearly 300,000 tons or less than 60% of the current emissions. This corresponds to total relief from road transport in the capital area in 2016. Both economic and environmental reasons recommend a firm effort to grow energy for the production of environmental energy sources for employment and for individuals. This interpretation proposal is presented in order to help achieve this, and the following should be pointed to in support of the case: 1st When it comes to gratifying and nip, six tons of greenhouse gases bind in the plant every hectare. Only half of it returns to the atmosphere when burning on the oil derived from the plant's seeds. 2. Reintegration and nudity support land healing and soil preparations for other crops. 3. Oil is not harmful to its environment, such as earth oil. 4. Reindustry and oil production from grass seeds create opportunities for innovation in agriculture and industry. 5. Recycling promotes the self-sustaining of Icelandic society and gives rise to Icelandic industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u34	Mr. President. I come here once more today because we're discussing the environment and they're close to me. First, I'd like to celebrate this conquistador of the senators' decision. I think it is very interesting, and it could lead to very good progress in that regard. I'd like to call attention to the production of other domestic fuels in itself. A report on domestic fuel production is presented here on hydrogens that are useful not only to speed up electric engines but also to fire machines in a certain way. It discusses the production of methadone, the alcohol we know from the production of Carbon Recycling in Blackspecture. They discuss estimating, both from dumps and from greenhouse gases, which are carbon dioxide. This gas may produce assessments, e.g. carbon dioxide, which comes from earth's surface or from aluminium. It discusses the relics, certainly, as well as other biodisils. The reason I mention this is because I never get tired of reminding that electricalization, whether it's a private fleet, a mechanical fleet, or even a part of a boat fleet, can never be the only way to do this. We must always go other ways simply because of the way machines are produced in the world and because some of the energy sources I mentioned are very practical, especially when it comes to bigger machines, e.g. In boats, ships, even airplanes, and so on, or even as fuel additives, such as the crystalline may be used. All of this must be kept in mind, not to emphasize all of this - I'm not saying that this is in connection with this conjugal proposal. I'm just talking about it in the community - electrical efficiency and that energy exchange is primarily about electricity. It's not. Back to the contort. We can see in the synonym that if you were to use oil on the entire fishing fleet, it would be 1,600 square miles [600 square km] of land. I'd like to say that it's not impossible in Iceland. In some cases, criticism has been carried on by grading and bisil, even alcohol, because it is being used to produce this land instead of food for the hungry, as some say. It is certainly right, especially in densely populated countries, an old agricultural country that is to be such for centuries at best, decomposing forests, or something similar. In the United States, there are plenty of areas to be healed according to climate conditions, but are not suitable for all agricultural and food production, but are also for reinvestment. It is not impossible to imagine a square mile [2,22,000 sq km] of a breeding land under the water, so to speak. I would like to discuss at the end of this speech, which should be to promote this fine synonym, only another lifedol, which I have a certain mind to present and discuss, first of all, a spirit of life made from seams made from seawater. They need light, light, oxygen. In Iceland it is very practical to grow algae out of earth's heat and out of sufficient light, which is produced in some way by electricity, green electricity. It is also because we can use carbon dioxide to use it, e.g. geotherms or factories blow their debt. Thus, large amounts of algae can be cultivated here. And what do humans do with them? This has been shown to be in the field of scientists at the University of Akureyri, I mention it there, for example. Professor Hjörleifur Einarsson, I can name the Blue loon, and I can mention various sources of food supplements, that many valuable materials can be processed from these algae. They are pigments, proteins, polysaccharide, and, above all, oil. And if this is done holistically, the hatchlings are grown to use almost everything they produce, then it is not excluded that part of the biodsilic product in Iceland can be made from algae. The other thing I'd like to mention is an unrealvable small animal that doesn't need the same conditions as the algae. These are small creatures who have walked under the nickname fatty bubbles because these are small spheres, primitive little things that live mainly in the ocean and have received, out of the Latin name I'm not going to use here, the nickname solid; one trust and many solid. These trust levels are similar to the algae, i.e. gives up or manufactures oil that differs from the oil from the algae and other materials that can be used, such as triglycerides and many valuable materials that can be processed from these solids, as well as the oil suitable for biodisil. In these two areas, we may be able to provide a measure of evolution with light or to add to the mineral production discussed here. I can mention, for a time, the price of such tiny oil is about 31⁄210 euros per kilogram, both of which are algae and of these solid ones. But when it comes to oil, it is about half a pound. If you see a long road, you'll find it between us. But it can be squeezed, squeezed out by the use of these animals, these plants, and very far into them, I don't talk about in climatetime, even acknowledging that some fuel can be more expensive than the oil we use, and we have to accept it. Most important, we may suffer if we do not take advantage of all the opportunities that nature offers. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to encourage progress in domestic fuel production, point out that the report is available at the General Assembly and that it encourages spending on these projects. I know that the decision has been made that some of the donations of Technologies and Science Funds should be within the framework of climates, and there is a ideal opportunity to place money in, not only in quirking and processing and everything, but also in the development of marine algae and fat bubbles.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u35	Mr. President. I move here for the third time on bill to legalize law on rights and duties of state officials, No. 70/1996, with subsequent changes, of increasing working age. Transporters with me have a problem. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Mégga. 5th a.m. South, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. It's a very simple bill in itself, three articles. In 1st. says, with permission of the president: ▪ The following changes will occur in 33 C.E. The law: a. Instead of the words at 1 mg of age and 1st. arrives: 73 years old. b. Instead of the words at the age of ▪70, at 2 mg. arrives: 73 years of age Two. says: ▪ Instead of the words ▪70 years of age, to 2 mgr. 43. g. The law comes: 73 years old. In the 3rd. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Mr. President. For some time now, we have had here in Iceland something called a flexible retirement, i.e. That pension age may range from 65 years of age to 80 years of age. But one group does not fit in with this definition, and it is government employees. They are under the law of No. 70/1996 leaving work next month after they become 70 years of age, and it doesn't matter what they do. True, there are exceptions, probably two, but there are police and customs officers who give up jobs at 65 years of age under collective contracts. In itself, a flexible retirement, as mentioned above, is of little value if it is not to be followed or to enjoy the rights involved. The first two times that this matter has been presented at the council, in itself, there has not been much disagreement on the matter, but for some reason the matter has not been resolved. It has been reported in the approved or declared declarations e.g. An older citizen's companion shows that this is a very rewarding experience because older people are allowed to work longer than 70 years of age. I think that their fine chairman of the Association of the National Association said in a talk that people do not go past the last day of sales, although a certain date is reached. That is so true, Madam President. First, we Icelanders are getting older on average, and we are fortunately over our heads a little older. I'm so old now that I remember a time when people who were about 70 years old were completely exhausted from their work and often went straight into a nursing home. Happily, those days have passed, and now men and women are more advanced beyond their age. Hence, this bill in itself was presented. Being able to work longer touches many surfaces. First, it is obvious, making money longer than age. Second, getting rid of undeniably isolated ones. This is how this situation applies, e.g. a case brought here, if I recall correctly, yesterday, it was a fine matter of Congress. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafurs, Ólafur of Ágústsson, to resist the depression of older citizens. Being able to work longer than 70 years of age reduces the isolation I mentioned earlier, thus helping people to feel better, to be more associated with others, to be active members of society, not to be alone, and to become less victims of depression. There is another factor that will encourage this bill to be approved. Government workers, both public and government officials, often possess knowledge they have gained and had experience over a long period of time. Really, it is unwise to throw that knowledge and experience away by driving these people home at their 70's. The examples you know are that some government employees who leave their jobs 70 years of age become contractors with their employer. What does that mean? In contrast, there is another matter that has already been held by the middle class and that will be reassigned, e.g. ... nowby 2nd. budget, i.e. That income doesn't interfere, jobs don't interfere with pensions. It's hanging out, that thing and that thing. The examples are known to be that people who work in the 70's at the state are made contractors, and then they can earn an entire hundred thousand dollars. who operates before its pension income begins to decline. In itself, it's rude. The state and state box will not lose a cent to change this to the kind of situation that we middle-class people have fought and pronounced because they pay their taxes on what they earn. I'm not going to take the English case because it's Icelandic, but it's a double gain, the one who earns the income and the state who receives taxes from them. So I cannot stress enough that this matter is positive in many ways. This enables people to earn more money into their lives. This prevents isolation and possibly the diseases that humans suffer when they stop working and retire. It prolongs the time that men are taxpayers, and now speak of an old tax collector of the state's funds, and of course what is least; this knowledge and experience I mentioned earlier. I know an example of men, e.g. In natural science, which has vast knowledge over a long period of time - perhaps research on specific fields, bird research, research on vegetation - continue to work, even to pay off, when they are older so as to be able to follow their research. Then I'll say again, it's rude to people with knowledge like this to send them home 70 years old or make them contractors and then run off every cent they earn. That's rude to this generation. Another thing is: Iceland and I can't afford to lose out on the knowledge and experience that these people have. That is why I believe that this case is the nature of the fact that there should be a clear way to go through the council, but twice before I have thought it would happen, but it didn't come out. But it's also said that there are three things already, Madam President. And I believe, of course, that this is the time for the matter to go through and be done. Last year, when this bill was delivered, I heard an appeal from that outside of me, from the commission that is likely to get the case treated, i.e. The financial and business committees, that they would have been concerned that these were government contracts free, etc. I've had interviews with the heads of the employee organisation, i.e. BHM, and I haven't heard of them any opposition to the fact that the case is going on at all, no. There has also been some anxiety over the fact that these groups now have a bargain. I don't quite see how this is supposed to disturb it. I've also heard the objection to this point, i.e. the age of these laws should enter collective agreements. Actually, I don't think it should be, it's been in this law since 1996, which was then revised. Then the appointment of officials changed, the wait of life until that time, but it has now been appointed to five years. I'd like to point out one more thing that may not have been an objection but a comment to the bill. People have said, "Why 73 years?" Why not 75 years or just no age limit? So it is to say that according to research I've seen and economists, people are very active professionals until they are 73 years of age. Well, it looks like someone's going to make a big break. Of course, these numbers could be 75 years, but the move was a good step, 73 years, and if it turns out to be a good 75 - year increase. But if we are to have this unlimited, we must qualify. When people are at this age, they get, for example. not a test of the car, except for a certain amount of time, which requires a renewal of driver's licenses, etc. If we had this period of freedom so that we could live up to the age of 80 properly, if they last for strength and health, we would have to put in some of these qualifications to make sure that humans are truly qualified for their jobs; aging seems to be different. This is at least the personal opinion of the person listed here, but it may not have a basis for sound among the participants. But I believe it would require such food. That's why I think it's a good thing to have these 73 years, that it doesn't make any sense, that it doesn't make any sense. In fact, I have not yet had the study of the ages of public employees. I would expect this change, from 70 years up to 73 years, could possibly touch a group of 3◯4 thousand. That's all I think it is. If I recall, there are government employees in Iceland, in the public sector, i.e. for state and rural society, around 23◯24, if I recall correctly, this is said without responsibility. But I don't think this would disturb anything. It must also be said in this speech that the decision to work to 73 years of age is selective; it does not state the subject of the bill. That's important, and we're back there supporting this flexible retirement. The opinion has also been expressed, and the law absolutely allows it, that at some point, e.g. About 70 years ago, it would be possible for people to move on in half their jobs and start taking half a pension. It's perfectly present. In this way, if I can put it that way, they could take their retirement on soft land. At one time, when Finnar went through economic hardship during the Soviet fall, they stressed the importance of getting young people to work and retired younger than before. This was not done in a single hand conversion, but it was done so that those who were leaving their jobs were available. They endured every other month for one to two years, even to prevent a leak of wisdom, to prevent the knowledge that the retired men had come out of the stream. Well, that's another story. This is our opinion which brings this matter. Last year, we also received e - mails from people who were very at odds with the need to give up their lives, as they said themselves, with their heads full of knowledge. Very recently, I heard a radio interview with a fine insect engineer who has been a frequent host on the radio to explain to us people what to guard against all seasons in regard to insects, lice, and all of that. This fine man is about to retire, and he was not satisfied, understandable. We who have enjoyed his knowledge and service for all these years should also have a problem with the fact that a man like him, this fine individual in that regard, should be forced to quit work, leave 70 when he's fully alive, and with his head full of knowledge and all this experience. It's a waste, Madam President. We can't afford it. According to this, I expect the bill to go, after the discussion this afternoon, to what? The Economic and Business Committee. This time, I hope the representatives of every class of the Economic and Business Committee agree that the matter will be settled all the way and that it may come into effect immediately. I believe it would be well advised and asked for members of Congress that this will be done in a way that allows us to handle the matter quickly and safely through the committee, get it back in to 2nd. and making the bill the law of the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u36	A respectable president. It's the best thing to do, and I spent a long time thinking about being a associate of it, but I decided not to do it this time because of 73 years. I don't think it's fully explained. Hv. The speaker, on the other hand, discussed it well. Regardless of the implementation, the matter is in general very urgent. The most interesting thing in all of this is the government's policy that the elderly should be increased, yet the maximum age is still. How, then, should this be changed? If this is the maximum, it is not possible to expand its participation beyond that. There is an assignment on the budget for the increasing participation of older people, etc., where the law here must be handled precisely. That's obvious. As a result, it should be easy to pass this issue, whether the years are exactly 73 years or some other export, instead of doing what is usually done, which is that the government groups want their bill to be approved, and then they are pulled out and replaced by a government bill. I don't want to see anything like that. I don't think it's disgusting. So I take my heart to it. forecast and forecast. This is clearly a step toward what even the government groups want, to correct exactly this law. As such, it should not be difficult to roll this through a financial and business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u37	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví is very grateful for the counterargument. That's right. That's right. The senator, this declaration to promote the employment of the elderly and to have, as indicated in my speech, a flexible retirement will not be necessary if we are judging people out at that age. I allow myself to use the wording to disqualify people. Then there's a case I mentioned earlier, because this in itself is not the only case we in the middle of the group are moving about the elderly, that professional income is not stealing pension income. This is an essential factor, and it will come about in order to help me cope with what I used to trace. I am very happy to hear it. A senator who was not a associate should have a positive view of the bill. We would have rejoiced if he had been, but of course, no matter how supportive he might be. As I tried to explain the year 73 C.E., that is not a sacred number. The bill will now go to the committee and consider a greater proportion of members of the Committee preferred to have the ages, e.g. 75 years, it's not a motive or some big deal in the eyes of what is here or other transporters, I believe. The important thing is the injustice that I think is going on because in the public market men can negotiate to work longer. True, they have an agreement with their employers, but it is not a law forbidding people to work beyond 70 years of age, such as this law No. 70/1996 does. We are also destroying discrimination by accepting this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u38	Madam President. We will discuss a very urgent matter, which is an increase in the working age of state employees. I'm proud to be one of the ten carriers of this bill who goes to raise the retirement age of a government employee from 70 years to 73 years. The only thing I don't like is that I shouldn't be gone any further. Many who are forced to stop working when they grow into 70 years of age find it very hard to stop working. These are those who have health, will, and the ability to continue working. Of course, this should not force one to quit, especially in times where there is a lack of secular work today. More hardworking hands are needed. These are the most conscientious, punctual workers who have knowledge and experience, often considerably in excess of others. Here we are talking about a clean waste of labor, that in the month that men will be 70 years old, the last date of sales will be up. They are forced to stop working, even some of them with health, working ability, and the will to continue. This, of course, is sad, Madam President. We're talking about that even if this age limit is over, who of course will be free to retire when he chooses when he is retired? This bill doesn't change that. As we know, the Icelandic nation is getting older and has been getting very old in the past few years and decades. Of course, it is clear to all that some 303/440 years ago, people who were in their 80's or 80's had grown old. It's different today. A lot of people who are past their 70's have very good efficiency. Of course, we are to help them win, if they choose. Hv. A traveler mentioned that he had received phone calls. I've got calls, too, and wires. One was 69 years old, and he was very worried about the day he had to stop working. He wanted to keep working. Of course, we do not have legal laws to prevent people from working longer if they choose to do so. It is not just the average age of the nation that has gone up in recent years. The health of older ones has also improved. There are rich demands for participation in society, including older ones. Today, people want to be active members of society. Of course, one part of it is to be allowed to work, to work. They also become taxpayers of the community, which increase the tax pay of the state's treasure. Why, then, should we not increase these boundaries? It is also about respect for human dignity. It is also about the quality of life of these people. This somewhat related case, Madam President, is the position of middle - aged people in the job market. Just next Thursday, I have a special discussion about that subject. People in their 50's may find it very difficult to get a job if they suffer from loss of employment. It is not respected, it is not called for an interview, it is not answered when they apply for a job, and it takes a lot more than the younger people to be out of work for a very long time. It seems that the landmark number of job drivers from recruiting people from mid - 30 years to work, who are aware of a big misunderstanding because these people are often the most conscientious, punctual, and most experienced professional. So at the end of my talk, I recall the discussion that will be next Thursday, and I hope that in these discussions there are suggestions or ideas about how to improve the status of these people as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u39	Madam President. I recommend a synonym proposal for the travel agency's duty to provide a carbon balance to the sale of services. My importers have a problem. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Hrafn Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir Ingi Pétursson. The proposal suggests that three ministers, i.e. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Transport and rural Ministers work together with law-employers to trade for transport services to provide carbon balance. However, they are expected to have time before the 2020 Fall Summit, for it can be assumed that there will be a number of legal columns that need to be considered in order to reach these goals. As we know, the Icelandic government has set out an ambitious climate policy and is targeted for Iceland to become a non-carbon object in the year 2040. These issues are also very much available in international dough, such as water. There has been no doubt by members of the council. So it is important that we show a little color by pushing people and businesses to take these steps. We're gonna go for a second. Congress officials have also noted especially young people, not only in Iceland but all over the world, are becoming very aware of the importance of climate, the importance of reacting. Then it is my opinion and the doubtlessness of many other couriers that they will have to roll with each stone. You have to deal with this as much as possible. Fortunately, various travelers are already offering carbon equations, but their goal is far off. In fact, the suggestion is that to reach the goal, there is a need for a change in several laws. Transporters feel that it is important that at least at first the consumer be selective about whether this offer is important to them or not, but its obligation to volunteer is to the dealer. This is vital to the consumers'awareness of the carbon tracks that may result from their travel but at the same time enable them to respond positively. Transporters believe that by obliging buyers to purchase carbon equations rather than to have them chosen, the change may be too burdensome, both for sales and for consumers, and therefore is the chosen path to which this is proposed. Ideas are very important for such countries as Iceland, who in the years and decades intend to have their tourism as one of their supporting branches. Just in such a ministry, how important it is that those who come to the country and buy the ministry feel that there is actually something to do about it! We have also heard of such things as the phrase "beginning sense, " which is probably the latest fashion, at least in the final stages. However, this route can be said to be at least One way to help people relax the feelings that may result from such. Of course, it's not the main thing. It's the other thing to put it into everyone's complete mind, not just the travellers, but everyone, that it's something that matters, and that we take action. Transporters point out that most tourism companies, if not all, update their presentations regularly. It has occurred in the vast majority of cases on some kind of website, Web site, or text page as a result of an incident. Therefore, it should be the responsibility of the companies to have such an offer not to be particularly burdensome to them. On the other hand, it may be necessary to have enough access time for companies as well as for governments to respond. As noted earlier, there will be considerable work of hands, let's say, on the basis of the counsel to achieve the needed changes to make this reality. Therefore, the proposal assumes that the Ministry has a relatively limited period of time, i.e. Until the fall of 2020, to finish the proceedings. I'm sure this time the President will have to guide me. What is the best place for this subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u40	Workaholics.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u41	I guess a professional health service should best be there, and I look forward to seeing there the reviews and processing of the committee on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u42	Madam President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing about a prisoner's reform. Transporters besides me are Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Kristinsson Ingi, Guðjón Brjánsson Bránsson, Bea Leví Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Justice in collaboration with Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Education and Culture Ministers and Health Ministers to set up a staff for the development of a complete trial policy in the prison system, including providing necessary legal and financial changes to ensure all individual treatment and saving programmes, improved access to education and health services, and increased support after loaning. The staff submitted a report with results no later than May 1, 2020. Minister of Justice introduces the results of the group of staff at the General Assembly.• The interpretation proposal has twice been submitted before, but it has not been established and is now brought back with minor changes. In short, it involves hiding the above advisers into the shape of a total reformal policy in the prison system. The aim of correction is to improve the quality of life and function of prisoners and to support further violations and return to prison. Psychological and social treatment in prisons, education, training, or working, and strengthening relationships with a family are seeking to help prisoners adapt to the community after abduction. (b) Why is it important to consider what is said at 1 Corinthians 15: 33? 15/2016, says that the law is designed to contribute to the success of prisoners and their adaptation to society. However, there are no comprehensive reformal policies and unclear to the extent to which the law contributes to reform; however, there is a wide range of access between study and health care between prisons and treatments only available to prisoners considered necessary by a prison agency. In order to ensure the success of prisons and to reduce the number of associated fractures, it is important that all prisoners be taken into account by diagnosis of their status and needs and the schedule of treatment within prison. Such a plan aims to help prisoners become active members of the community after retirement. It is proper to assume that in the older law on the ultimate punishment, no. 49/2005, it was found that a prison facility should be cooperated with prisoners making a treatment and saving plan. With law No. 15/2016, on the basis of full punishment, was mandatory, as mentioned above, in cases where a treatment plan is considered necessary by the specialists of the prison agency. A paper with a bill that turned them into law stated that they had not been able to establish a plan for all inmates, since a prison facility had not been funded to carry out the task. That may be a little typical of how we do things at times. A lofty, important goal was set for a prisoner's reform, but it was never accompanied by needed financial support, and it was prompted to simply cancel the obligation of the law rather than finance the project. The purpose of this synonym is just to try to return to the original plan and to develop a whole-scale policy, a reformal strategy; and it is equally important that such a course be assured of needed financial support. It is well explained by the basic arguments behind this synopsis proposal in a paper that follows. Some factors, though, are to be considered. Data on prisoner recurrence rates are incomplete, and experts are aware whether this is the case, as the official evidence suggests, that the recurrence rate here is low in comparison with other North countries. It should be possible, in the context of the fact that we are working with very old data. It is very important that we re-establish the relapse rate of prisoners in terms of a longer reference period than has been used so far. It is also important to bear in mind when considering the basis for this suggestion, to ensure the necessary financial support for the reform plan, whatever the cost of society and the individuals involved are of the penalty we practice today, rather than of a targeted reform program. It is well known that prisons, and especially prisons like Little Lague, may be more inclined to harden criminals than to improve. There are even significantly worse individuals from there than when they went in there. This, of course, is a massive damage to society not only because of continuing crime but also because of the fact that individuals remain inactive in the community and even forced back on crime. Of course, a difficult situation must be considered for individuals who are completing a sentence. It can be very difficult to get a job, can be very difficult to obtain appropriate housing, so it is extremely important that a targeted program of correction be made to build up the person right away when the sufferer starts and prepares in the planning process of his return into the community as an active member of society. That is why I think this is a very important matter, and I really hope that there is a great deal of support in the council, that this is a time of progress, and that the government is taking responsibility in this matter. The present arrangement and condition are unacceptable. We are not running reform policy, as we speak of us doing. On the contrary, much more has to do with pure criminalism. From that course, we must turn. I'm not going to keep my case further this time and suggest that the case be referred to at the highest level. The welfare committee, I presume, President, unless it is corrected, and it will be right then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u43	It's a proposal from the Parliamentary Conference Office for a discussion on the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Wazowski's Víglundsson for an account for this council-sense proposal for a prisoner's reform. In many respects, I think it's a very good thing. A basic prison policy is a matter of great importance to all of us, for support for each individual is very important. However, I am not convinced that there is a consistent trend between a whole and a need for an individual plan for each person. A healthy general policy may be very useful to a section of the group while some need a specific individual schedule. What I would like to come in on, so I want to direct the question to the carrier whether he does not believe that there are some preventive measures to be involved, such as. Training in exercise for each person. The suggestion does not mention physical activity or the need to care for the body. A mental - health service is introduced, but then I also want to direct it to a carrier if it is not important to be trained to cultivate your own mental health, except for natural service as a result of problems that may be present. I ask if it would be a reason for the committee to review these matters specifically if a traveller feels that it matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u45	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists and rejoices at having an opportunity to sharpen what I have not been clear enough in my front speech. We're talking about the total reform policy of the government, certainly, but that includes just individual corrections, that they are tailored to each prisoner's needs, not that there is one uniform formula to cover all. Of course, it's fine as a matter of course. A senator makes mention, such as improving your health, exercising exercise, etc. It's all that matters. The needs of prisoners in this case are very different. Some prisoners may need the very rich service of a psychologist, who has been criticized for being extremely limited in Icelandic prisons for a very long time. Some may need assistance from a social worker, some of whom may need strong education options, etc. Many people have a drug problem, so they may be in desperate need of health. However, the very idea is that this is an individual approach according to the individual's needs. The points mentioned in this report are by no means a full list of the options such plans might contain. I would only welcome it in the discussion of the Committee if there were further sharpening of different options that might be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer, but he would like to reiterate a collective reformal policy and offer of service and prevention must be the cover-up of everything, and then individual plans, not necessarily for each person, but as to whether the basic services are sufficient. I would like to ask if the senator knows that in the system now there is some offer on, for example. training in exercise and training courses, not as part of the formal school system, but as part of developing, e.g. mental health or better self-identification, e.g. A course like HAM or anything like that. Some which may be classified as recreation in one place may have important prophylaxis and personality values in this context. Why not try to look at this subject in detail?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u47	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists a second time. This proposal has been made even. in cooperation with a prisoner's interest group and in the process, I had several conversations with their representatives while I was serving as a social minister in my day. I thought it most striking that the most significant work was done by prisoners to make them some kind of reform, an opportunity to improve their lives, and their plans after the loans have ended. Actually, a prison sentence would be nothing more than the eternal wait for a person to be restored without being progressively involved in rebuilding the person again. The reasons why people are led into crime are many, of course, but it must be our will in society that people will be given real opportunities to come back as active members of society after the execution of sentence, not being punished, but a direct start to the individual. We build our attitude toward reformed men or should base our attitude on the basis of forgiveness and the fact that people will have real opportunities, but they will not be rejected or excluded from society in some way after committing crime, no matter how serious it may be. It does not improve society that people come devastated and without a good hope for a future out of a clean penance. I think it's the very essence of this case that there is a sentence that makes it possible for everyone, in this case, to do good in our daily activities, and therefore it is extremely important to work on it in a specific way and to force them to create this important opportunity to improve their lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u48	A respectable president. This matter is now set forward a second time, and it was also added to the last legislature, and it says, The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretary in agreement with the Environment and Resource Minister to provide a bill for changes in carbon costs in terms of increase or decline in accordance with the effectiveness of meeting Iceland's commitments under the Paris Convention the previous year and the purpose of achieving the non-carbonization of Iceland's 2040. The minister gives the bill no later than the spring council 2020 In order to improve the effectiveness of the carbon - tax system, the tax is suggested to increase the cost to power growth if Iceland's commitment to Paris agreement is not met and the aim for noncarbonization of Iceland to 204 but, in the same way, a substantial reduction in emissions and emissions is achieved. At the last legislature of the European Environment Agency and Iceland's Business Council, there were reviews. The EEA's review pointed out that the projections of emissions do not appear until two years later. The EEA also showed that it further calculates planned emissions in relation to its policies and actions. This progress should be sufficient to achieve the objective of this proposal, just as a cost-effective plan is used to calculate the benefits and the like in each year's budget. Of course, it would be better for real - life statistics to be available sooner and to encourage the EEA's moving agents to make the release accounts available sooner. This can be done to re-evaluate schedules based on the latest information at regular intervals. Transporters also encourage the EEA to ensure that such accounting is updated and published in an automatic fashion. Transporters - a Congress party of Pirata - stress the use of carbon tax in the fight against climate change, including to support and strengthen those who are most disposed of in order to reduce emissions. It is noted that the aim of the increase is that emissions cost those who release, and thus other official restrictions will not be reduced because of increases in carbon costs. You see, it's a price that's supposed to decommission itself, so we should encourage that the emissions to run out quickly, that we no longer go free, and that's why no one has to pay the carbon bills and everyone wins. Global warming because of man - made carbon emissions is the greatest threat facing mankind and human society. It has a major impact on coastal areas, e.g. by increasing sea level, causing changes in various weather conditions for agriculture, where the greenhouseline is constantly moving north. It makes it easier for us to grow in areas where there is now an enormous quantity of food we consume less than we now have. The soil north must be built up and better equipped to receive these plants. There's an enormous issue. It has been used in the fight against climate change, and it is one of the methods that directly affect the financial resources of companies and individuals. It is a method that the nations of the world have agreed to be the only way. This was done in the Kyoto Protocol or at the same time as it was made, and it was agreed that this was the device that could be used to drop the cost where it exists. There are also other systems within it, such as the panorama system on different emissions, etc., which, anyway, is the instrument that the nations of the world agreed to work. The idea of the development of this speech arose at the celebration of rock and roll, held at Akureyri in the fall of 2018, where the public had the opportunity to produce suggestions and ideas for action in climate. It was very interesting to see how many ideas came up, to take up the discussion at a meeting with guests and walking, as a whole, with a new thought as to how we can share in improving climates. I've seen that over the last Friday, for some time there have been protests here outside where action is called right now. I am pleased to see that the program for this meeting is at least five issues that concern climate in some way. Substitution of carbon balance, measures to reduce the use of palm oil in Iceland, shape of economic incentives to promote energy plants, carbon tax efficiency, of course, and the obligation of tourism to supply carbon balances to services. You don't need ideas, but you just need to finish things. It's unacceptable, I think, that the things that come in here, the ideas that come, and the answers to the call here, except that there's no action now, that the ideas are coming, but they need to be completely through and they're going to get through. Pirats and I have three other issues that we have presented about, for example. The Committee of Environment and Resources, which is very important, issues of carnivores and the Green Community Convention that we cooperated with the Group of the United Nations. The possibility is there for the council, absolutely. I think I've seen matters that concern the environment in some way from all categories. All we need to do is finish them in committees, get them out of committees and get people to vote for them. It's what's been missing a lot of terms, let alone the environment, to bring them here in a Senate hall so that people can vote and cancel the action that is called immediately to action. It's one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of advance and for bringing this interesting matter into the council. I can say that I strongly support that thought. I think the main purpose of carbon bills as such is, in fact, to eliminate the taxpayer on which it is placed. That we find ways to use environmental energy sources, and as a result, the future income will be made with carbon pay, hopefully as little as possible because it has worked. However, it should be noted that they are high enough to bite and take into account the goals we have set for ourselves, e.g. in energy exchange and reduction of emissions. I find this very interesting approach and well worth considering whether it is appropriate to adjust and raise it - perhaps unlikely - if we realize that we are not getting results. I'll direct one question to what? A senator I find very interesting. Now we know, for example. There are over tens of dollars of gas for the period of time, and even within each year. We have seen a period of high fuel prices and very low fuel prices. Of course, the incentive for energy exchange is the higher fuel prices. But when we have a carbon charge of 10 k. but maybe in the run - in - the - game scenario, which may be more than 1,30050 k, even within a year, I have heard the interesting idea of simply allowing a carbon price to swing, so that if a fuel price drops very much, which directly violates the government's goals in climate change, the energy exchange would be allowed to rise in return. I wondered if such possibilities were considered by the transporters in addition to the very idea presented there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u50	A respectable president. The proposal is for the overall result, for everyone to work together on it. If one does well and no one else does better than plans do, and the carbon costs go up. It's a matter of taking all the responsibility, not just putting it on some because we all have responsibility. Swinging to the carbon bill especially after fuel prices? I don't know if it's necessarily efficient. It's an idea. I think it's a bit of a intervention to run the gas prices as such. Overall, the effects should usually be the same over a year. You wouldn't have had the heavy consumption control of food at a time when the price is low and you bought gas cars. You are more likely to watch long - term use, long - term thinking, whether you choose a fossil fuel car, rather than depend on fuel prices. I don't believe in the fuel price in Iceland that the price of carbon balance changes anything. If something is, it's just an inflation, which isn't so much fun and brings us to another problem. But I would love to see, for example. The amount of fuel such as this drops down and raises the amount of carbon in return, of course, would come back a mile tax, and more on that line. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u51	Madam President. That's an interesting discussion. By this speculation, I am not saying that carbon charge should change from day to day. Rather, perhaps 12 months of average prices or something, such as the carbon bill was set in return. It will blow in a certain way if we are talking about the decision to raise the carbon account by a hundred and twenty-two k., as it has actually raised a lot of discussion in this hall and a lot of criticism even, and it will set the same time to raise the fuel costs by 5◯7 k. but the rise is below radar. After all, fluctuations that may be longer, too, on fuel prices significantly reduce energy exchange impulse, which is, of course, the purpose of carbon itself. It may be worth remembering, though I am not the optimistic person to think that we are in the near future, that if we become aggressive in eliminating or greatly reducing the use of fossil fuels, the situation may arise that fuel prices may simply fall out of a decreasing demand, which will go back to working against our goals in climate. That is why I thought of this idea and would be interesting to see that some of such speculations were viewed by the committee. I heard that if we had done something like that over three, four years of time, we would have been able to pay on the income from the internal supply of energy exchange in any form of electricity, the loading point around the country. But I think it's an interesting idea to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u52	A respectable president. I understand the question now and its basis a little better and can agree with this approach. I can better understand what we're talking about. There is a goal for migrating fossil fuels, which is very rigid in this proposal. Then it would be a special subpart of the overall objective and would be very nice. As a result of that question, it is important for me that the income taken from the environmental expenditures will go into innovation and measures to offset these impacts and the costs we come to see in the coming years because of our worldwide commitments. That the benefits or income that we have from this are directly involved in measures to prevent more emissions. If we receive a billion dollars, we try to use the billion most to reduce the income of the next round, using very effective measures to achieve and speed up emissions. It's a very good point to watch it like this, and I'm going to say it's something worth looking at.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for this interesting synopsis proposal. As for getting emissions down as soon as possible, I think we can all agree that then is mainly the question: Is it the right way to add a curse to the citizens in general, because like a whale? A senator points out that all of us must do our part and participate. That exact approach to the carbon account? I was wondering what. A senator had predicted or thought more about who he would most likely take note of, whether we had not community groups who would simply not be able to make the difference in energy change, and whether it was actually government to try to meet individuals further and to show by action if they were going to help people try, e.g. to get into an electric vehicle instead of burning fossil fuels. In fact, it is more painful than tears to see an endless declaration of extra spells - increased spells, increased spells - while we know that a social group running on the old slut that burns all too much oil or gasoline and chews blue smoke and people don't even have the content to get it fixed, with far too loose and to name it. All you get is a sting of looking up at all the air and the horror from it. What, though, are governments really doing in an effort to deal with them? Buying an electrical vehicle is 4 million plus, and if you get one on 4 million, I don't know if it's drawing from the Grafarholt down to the University of Iceland, I'm not quite sure, so I'm pretty grossly exaggerating. No one with less than 300,000 dollars. In a month it may be possible, as the situation is today, to move to what we are preaching, and we long to be able to see in action, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to point this out because the proposal is motivated to reduce the price. You see, that's the most amazing thing about it. Although driving as such and just public traffic is a relatively large part of transport emissions, it is also big users who can have the most important influence in reaching their targets faster than we are doing right now. If we achieve better results than the goals we pursue according to international commitments, the price will be reduced. It is a requirement and motivation for us, especially toward the super user users, to do well and better, reducing the price to all of us. Of course, all of us need to take a small responsibility for this and do our part in reducing the cost even more. So I view this, not as a suggestion, which should be taken at anyone, but as an incentive to do better than we're doing right now. As soon as you get the chance to pay less if you do better, I think you'll use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Do better, and more like that, the motivation to lower the carbon bill, says yah. Senator. In fact, a group of people would not really want to see any carbon charge. Rather, they would switch from black oil to a different oil, rather, commodities communicate with national electricity. With regard to Paris's meeting and non-carbon, Iceland, in 2040, it sounds very beautiful, but I can't see better than it's actually a suggestion to be successful. If this fails to function as well as being targeted, the carbon charge will simply rise. There is no one who will say that it will turn down. We've been very successful in what we've made of ourselves, we Icelanders have often been very good at times, but in this case, while I've had a social group that hurts to bind and doesn't even have gas in the car in the middle of a month, it's about to come up with extra spells and hope that the result will be as planned, simply indefinitely down on us, that the fee will decrease, all too much risk. I think there's too much risk in terms of the groups I represent. It's too hard for me to imagine those individuals sitting at home because there's not enough for a yoke on the flier. It's the idea of even raising the carbon charge back if the gas cylinder drops, just like that. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson mentioned earlier. It's just sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u56	A respectable president. Indeed, there is great danger, and there are groups of people with a bad temper. A senator, to whom I too believe to speak, speaks, encounters problems that definitely lie elsewhere than in the carbon account. If you can't raise the amount of carbon worth by a few cents, which actually affects individuals, much more impact on big users, we are making the difference in the equations we have. It definitely has such problems. A senator is recognized. I don't see them as problems for the carbon account. This should certainly not make enemies of less - income groups, since the problems we deal with are complex and poor, with many declines forward and back. The amount of carbon is by no means our enemy. The system is largely its own enemy. I certainly look at it, at any rate, I have every hope when I propose this proposal with Porta's Congress party, that having the motivation and possibility to lower the price will include a great deal of financial gain for those whom it bites most, with large sums, big users, the motivation that they do something in what they can profit by it all. If we also participate, those of us who don't use that much fossil fuel and don't pay hundreds or millions in carbon pay, if we add a little to the powder beyond what is expected to be made to us, the cost is further reduced. I don't see anything but positive about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u57	A respectable president. Last night, he said what he said. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson for motioning that nine men would be put together to keep their arms on the interests of the elderly. We were in this talk chair yesterday, talking about feelings of distress, depression, discouragement, isolation, and an increase in older citizens and how many of them are really having a hard time. A party of the people has previously proposed for the prosecuting agent of the elderly, and I would appreciate it if we could come together with the movers from yesterday. They have the interests of the elderly just as a group of people do. I hope the outcome would benefit the adults. I am a messenger to this proposal for a interests officer, and with me at the suggestion is Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson. It reads: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Social Affairs at the end of 2020 to provide a bill for the office of the senior representative of the interests of the elderly. This report, by permission of the president, says: This arrangement was proposed to a 149th legislation Council (Second 825), but it was not granted and is now submitted unchanged. That she was not granted simply means that she was put to sleep on a committee and never came back to the Senate to vote on it or discuss it further. The fact is, all too many interests are being put to sleep on a committee, sit down, don't come into the Senate Hall for further discussion, do not reach votes. Very many of these cases have become soaring that it is a bad cause to protect from any politician, any government, to try to block or vote against them because they are actually for the benefit of our society, for the common people, for the people of the country. A report says: With this proposal, the Minister of Social Affairs is ordered to prepare and submit a bill to the legal office of the elderly. Service to the elderly is distributed in lands, communities, communities, and private members. The laws and rules on the case of the elderly are complex, especially in the area of taxes, social security, and health. The elderly are a large and varied group, and there are increasing numbers of elderly ones, and there are different ways of caring for their own rights and interests. Thus, according to the moveers'opinion, there is a great need for proverbs that will protect the elderly and guide them in their rights. The emissary of the elderly is intended to call attention to the elders'rights and interests in general, both in public fields as well as in private, to guide the elderly in their rights, and to respond to the impression that they are violated. The elderly's economist should have the initiative monitoring - and take note, this is of great importance, his office shall be the strong, and the powerful thing that he can have initiative surveillance - ◯ with the personal welfare of all older citizens, especially in preventing social isolation, preventing the lack of nutrition and the general lack of their resources. Who doesn't remember the report published last year, an essay written on malnutrition older citizens? Imagine that our adults are in that position, isolated from their homes, that they really, perhaps because of illness, maybe because of a shark, maybe because they don't trust themselves at home, just starving at home. 13 older citizens who visited after returning to their own homes after being in the hospital all had a lack of nutrition. It is a disgrace to us, the least we can say, if we cannot, or if we do not take further steps to prevent what is going on in the community. In fact, all of us are aware of this, but the government is moving toward the blind eye. The report also says that the stakeholder should offer proposals for improvement in legal requirements for the elderly and take the initiative to establish a social discussion on their issues. Similar suggestions on the representative of the older people who are being trained and who are holding their affairs have often been made, in 126, 144, and 145th legislators'Council. It may then be called an agent of the elderly or something. We decided that the term would be stakeholder of the elderly rather than an agent with a certain tendency; an agent of the children, the Generals' agent, to be sure that we'd better distinguish these terms and that it would be easier for all to understand the difference, because it's not the same. We have felt that there was a lack of rights information: What is my rights? When an elderly person sits at home and gets paid from a insurance agency or is referred to here and there and he goes between Heródes and Pílatus in an effort to obtain a release, these are not adults, to have to run from one to the other. The elderly's emissary is actually the answer. He can hold it. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson recommended yesterday's proposal, as I mentioned earlier, to form a group that made an assessment and held their arms around and examined the status of older citizens in the community, depression, isolation, and even a general setting and I could see that this would obviously hold hands and work together and I believe it. I really believe that. I'm always so optimistic. Every time I come here and measure the good things that really matter to land and people, I have full faith that we generals over our heads, wherever we stand, are just really with a beautiful heart, and if there's any chance, without putting the Ark next to us, I believe that we want and will meet the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u58	A respectable president. We are recommending a proposal for a resolution on the interests of elderly members of the people. In this context, it is helpful to remind us that while the matter is only about the elderly, it also concerns the elderly because when an invalid is 67 years old, he ceases to be an invalid and becomes an older citizen. His rights are in violation of me; for those are the wages of his pensions. It's just a case that could be recorded by an older man in interest. If an invalid becomes 67 and become an older citizen, he should actually get more money, since his illness is not getting better at advanced age but, in many cases, causes an individual's disability even more difficult. There's no use in getting a sponsorship of the elderly. We've seen that when an older citizen is released from a hospital, goes to his house, and it's discovered by chance that all he has in the refrigerator is an ice bottle. Sadly, this tells us that there are older citizens who are not concerned about and who, as a result, are in danger of starving. We have created the absurd word for the flow problem of older citizens in hospitals, and it is known that in hospitals, older citizens are basically in tunnel storage, many in their rooms together. The hospital is said to be blocked because of the older citizens' flow problems, but it's wrong. The problem is the government of any time that does not provide resources for the elderly by dealing with the problems of nursing homes. Also, there are problems with health care. There are many issues that might be addressed to the elderly. Then there's no home service. It is hard to believe that there are still people who are older citizens, who are advanced in their 80's or even 90's, are being discharged and sent to their homes where their mates are supposed to take care of the person, age alike, and even weak and without any place to take over. In such cases, the elderly should respond. In the conversation yesterday about the proposal. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson stated that this would be evaluated, and I agreeed with the story that there was a lack of an organization like the Microcollar League to protect the interests of disability when they become older citizens so that someone could defend their interests. It is a great proposal and long time for this group to get a word of caution because it has, unfortunately, been a fact that a government by the government has not taken a group of elderly under its wing or have taken his best interests at heart. The fact is, 10% of the older citizens live in poverty and another 10% dance on the line of poverty. We also know the worst of all ugly older citizens who live far below poverty limits, in desperate poverty, and, in effect, starving. That's our shame, too, because there are also people from the foreign state who are invited, people who have come to Iceland and become Icelandic citizens. The fact that these people do not have the hope of living here is grossly impaired. It is an ugly catch on our system to welcome people, allow them to settle here, but do not give them full rights and do not see to it that they can live with dignity in our society. I hope that this proposal will take place and that we can see our dignity in taking over the interests of older citizens and making sure they get the rights as they should.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill of a change in income tax law, No. 90/2003, with subsequent changes. Its bill is very simple, since it is proposed only to change that the word is replaced with the word "seventy and seven times " in the 1st proverb. Twenty-seven. The law comes in: 20. Prior to the 149th legislature, the bill was moved to a legislature and could not be passed. In fact, this had been the review and treatment of the committee, and there was talk of it that kept this matter very close in mind and the need for it, but it is primarily moved to facilitate generation change in farms and in various companies or generation exchanges in modern employment. If the bill succeeds, it must be permitted to distribute taxable sales funds, where a part of the sale value is paid with a debt theory to up to 20 instead of seven, as in current law. To form the rights of an heir other than the one involved, sex changes in businesses and businesses have often been difficult, and much must be avoided in the transfer of valuables. Often, the founder of a family business wants to sell his business to someone in the family after a long business. More often than not, the person is willing to help with the financing of the purchase, e.g. by receiving, in part or in all, in the form of debt doctrine. Such funding is often a prerequisite for a person who accepts the business has a high volume. At the same time, the rights of other Heirs are guaranteed, for they are sold at reasonable market prices, not underprivileged, as they often would like to be in the generation. As a result, right down to the end of this wicked system of things is a place of rest and peace. By publishing debt theories from buyers, the seller actually acquires the value of a retirement fund, which guarantees his income. The person's soul before the bill ends is divided between an heir in accordance with the law and will, and the government fund gets a legitimate share in tax returns as before. A respectable president. I don't need to have many words about this big task that many families face. When I talk about families, we're the carriers of this bill, which are for me. Óli Björn Kárason, Brassur Níelsson, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir and Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, agree that this may be the part of employment, whether it's the singles, firms of construction industry or carpenters, shops, farms, farms - which is actually the focus of this bill - where such cases are often tied in times of trouble; primarily because of the financial gains of purchases, and not being sought for other routes, e.g. by trying to place the market price. In recent years, treatment of these types has changed to the treatment of a tax manager. In the past, it was normal to transfer these assets to tax prices, while changing the monitoring of tax resolutions and such property transfers have changed. I'm not going to track down the report or reason for the little change that's going to be there, which is called very much. It was very clear in the reviews sent on the bill last session that people believe that this can bring a lot of life into this important project, which we can help, which are generation-changes in various companies of our professional life. It is tempting, more dignified, to discuss the matter also from the side, where recent action has been carried out in the councilroom and in the community an extensive discussion of land sales, and how we can better handle it, and many call for rules in the material, which are more often but not burdensome rules for those who own it, being restricted to some kind of design. I think we should focus on looking even less through the tax system and how we can use it to achieve what we all agree on, that we can do better, to make it easier for farms and generations in rural areas. We transporters do not make it a subject of this bill, but in such a way that in many countries around us, there are very interesting rules of tax treatment for farm prices, even of the sales prices of companies that work in a country in small settlements and are founded on significant and various services that are used to provide greater protection for such services. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to the treatment of the Economic and Business Committee at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u60	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for measures to reduce the use of palm oil in Iceland. The signature of the proposal reads: The General concluded to hide a travel, industrial and innovation minister to work on the limitation of palm oil use in all production in Iceland and provide a bill for the ban on its use in biodisil. A minister presents his findings to the General and gives the bill for a prohibition on the use of palm oil in biodisil no later than at the end of 2020. Mr. President. Testimony proposals similar to this were made in 149, a legislature of 554th but failed to succeed. The motion is now being made in a modified format but suggested to go further and look for ways to reduce the use of palm oil in the production of Icelandic products in general. By their interpretation of the proposal for transport, the use of palm oil in biodisil, Iceland, will be forbidden. Deforestation is done when palm oil is taken, but it adversely affects the environment and causes a number of damages that are sharpened by bans. The proposal of the case is based on the following study by the Rannveig Magnúsdóttir. In view of the impact production of palm oil on the environment, the European Union has been adopted Commission Regulation (EU) 2019/087 aimed at reducing the use of nonrenewable bioenergy fuels, including palm oil. An oil aluminium is a rapid tropical barrier that originated in West and Southwestern Africa. The fruit of this palm tree is derived from palm oil. One miller yields about 4 tons of palm and palm tree core oil. These products are found in many Western countries, and increasingly in Asia, they buy and buy every day. These include cosmetics, soaps, chocolates, bread, cakes, biscuits, and fuel. Lands such as Indonesia and Malaysia, which produce most of palm oil, have already cut down much of their rain forests, including for the mass production of palm oil, which is the cheapest commercial plant oil. The demand for it has increased substantially over the past few decades, and to the end, rainforest is being done on a large scale. Today, the largest part of palm oil is marketed, causing the destruction of rain forests. It is estimated that at least 15 million acres [15 million ha] of rain forest have already been dropped for the production of palm oil, mainly in Indonesia and Malaysia. To put it into context, such a waste of land is equal to a size of one and a half Iceland. The production of palm oil has doubled over the past decade and will likely double until 2020. This is largely due to increased demand from Asia. Rain forests are highly fertile and have a wide variety of biodiversity. In one hectare in the Amazon jungle, e.g. More than 230 types of trees were found. In addition, forest is much more than just a tree, and unfortunately, many other species of animals and pets are also lost when forested. Animals thrive only if they have sheltered, suitable food, and the food web can be very complex in old rain forests. Some even depend on others. With the help of certain insects, birds, or mammals, the fertilization of many plant species will only result in loss of plant life. Animals may need large areas to function and not survive in small, limited rainforests. This is why many rain forests are in grave danger of extinction. Rain forests are huge carbon chambers and some rain forests, mainly in Southeast Asia, grow in carbon - rich swamps. When the forests are cleared and burned, the effects of climate change are increased, since both carbon is released into the atmosphere when the forest itself is burned and also when the swamps are started. In addition, these swamps were often sparked, and in 2015, a very dry year, a large part of Southeast Asia was covered with a wide range of food attributable to forest fires in Indonesia due to palm oil production. The transformation of rainforests into plantations is, in fact, made up of lifeless areas in which animals such as orangutans have no hope. It is thought that if Indonesia's rainforests continue to be destroyed at the same rate, the orangutans in nature could be extinct within a few decades. In addition, Amnesty International has recently been exposed to the terrible equipment of people and children working on palm oil plantations, where children are enslaved and women are weakened by spraying insecticides to the forest bottom. Mr. President. In 2013, a total of over 60 million tons of palm oil were produced worldwide, of which only 16.5% were produced under the umbrella of a team called a sustainable palm oil board. About half of that oil was self-sustained by a special witness representing only about 9% of the world's production. India, Indonesia, and China buy about 42% of the palm oil produced in the world and countries in the European Union about 10%, which is also most purchased by the palm oil that has received sustainable validation. A round of self-sustaining palm oil is an organization linking stakeholders to making palm oil in the whole chain of values, including palm oil manufacturers, other manufacturers, shops, banks, and free partners. Ideas are simple, and they are about to stop forest destruction and produce and Witnesses of sustainable palm oil. Sadly, though, the system is very defective, it is being worked hard to improve the witness work. In fact, a few palm oils can be self-sufficient. Has the production become self - centered when the land was exposed to the rainforest at the age of 5, 10 or 30 years? The fact is, the whole area where palm oil is now produced was a rainforest, whether it is self-sustained or not. The reason for using these areas that have already been made of rainforest is that palm oil production is very high per hectare compared with other oil productions. Thus, many environmental groups have put much emphasis on the recent development of sustainable palm oils and have encouraged them to buy companies and consumers rather than shun palm oil entirely. Although most of the palm oil produced in food and cosmetics has been used as fuel or as a mixture for the past decade. This is why climate policy is mainly responsible for the European Union. It is estimated that in 2014 European vehicles burned more than 3 million tons of palm oil. There is about one third of all biofuel use in the European Union. While biofuels have been viewed as non-carbon products, the simple product has actually deceived governments into believing that palm oil for biofuels is better for the climate than fossil fuels. Sadly, the opposite is true when we consider the matter. The increase in demand for biofuels has resulted in increased production of palm oil in Malaysia and Indonesia, with increased rainforest erosions, droughts on mores, less biodiversity and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Biofuels from plant oil, which accounts for 70% of Europe's biofuel market, have been calculated to release 80% of the greenhouse gases that are being replaced by fossil fuels. Palm oil is at its highest and is three times worse than fossil fuels, followed by soya oil, which is twice worse. The fact is, biodiversity is produced in three locations in Iceland today, where it is a new opportunity to produce as much environmentally friendly biosilver as possible. Thus, a number of items other than palm oil can be used, as was very clearly shown in the case of a person. paritaprevir The hails of Kristjánsdóttir's Signý, who has been given oil production, but for example. waste oil and animal fat can also be used, reused in the future, and may also be used in small amounts. The use of palm oil for food would most likely be discontinued, since in addition to having a high carbon track, palm oil is saturated with fat. The surgeon recommends replacing parts of saturated fat for unsaturated fatty acids, both polyuncapped and monomethated, thus reducing the risk of cardiovascular events. It is hoped that while little is involved in the big picture, Iceland is getting a good start at the council and that Iceland contributes in this way to the rainforests. Under the motion as well as the motion given by Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Logi Einarsson, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardarddótir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy and Thorhild Ævarsdóttir Avjörnótir. Finally, I suggest that the case be referred to a business committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u61	Mr. President. I'd like to grab this opportunity and give a very brief answer to a very good debate. Senator. I find this to be quite interesting in many ways, but what encouraged me to come up here was her statement that there was a deception for the use of palm oil for fuel. It's kind of the thread I want to spin a short answer to. A member of the Parliament, for one of the problems of the climate discussion is a number of false information. My question to why. The senator involved in this is that I think that in the treatment of the matter for which she ordered, there is a reason. A job committee will discuss how we can improve this. I'd like to bring two points. An interesting subject was presented here on the culture of energy plants today and as a result. A senator also mentioned this in his background. As I know how to do so, this growth binds more than it does, so the fact remains that 3 tons of carbon per acres per hectare has been confined to beyond the emissions when the fuel is consumed from salt oil has been consumed. I'm riding on this in climate discussion today that producing beef in Norway releases some 17 kilos of carbon, while corn-fed beef releases four times as much. It's just two points and the facts. I agree with what. A senator's need for a significant improvement in climate discussion, and we need to do much more to address the flow of major information in the climate discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u62	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for an interesting answer and interesting speculation on climate issues. I really agree, an overexcited amount of information comes to us on climate matters, and I think it's key, and I quote Greta Thunberg there, that, of course, we should look at science and what they tell us. They're very clear on climate issues. However, it is also important not to focus on the small points, such as the one we are considering in connection with the palm oil. Of course, my palm oil is contaminated when it is burned on the car. But it's all the other stuff that's so chemically contaminated, the production of palm oil. Hv. A senator mentioned the matter of the energy plants, which I also introduced in my story talk. We are not clearing out a rainforest and an enormously important land that is already producing so much oxygen and living on a very large and diverse biological scale. In Iceland, everything else is here, and I want to take advantage of this opportunity, since I did not get involved in the discussion earlier and also enjoy it. We have so many opportunities to use both waste and waste, as I mentioned earlier, by using biofuels and energy plants. I agree with what. A senator, we need to be careful in the climate discussion, and there will be no benefits when wrong matters are used in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Regarding the debate that she is moving about the motivations for the use of palm oil, which are then driven by the demand for a consumer market, I agree that I really feel very serious about how blind people are affected only by daily shopping. It's always becoming more aware of this, but as I said in my previous answer, I feel that people are a little lost in the discussion. I'm not going to get into the discussion about road transport and such policies and viewpoints in those areas, but I'm only going to say that it is, for example, that it is. The palm oil fat that is used - I often talk extensively about agriculture - in nuclear mixtures and various feeding grounds. I agree with what. A senator, you see, we have such an overwhelming opportunity at home. Suddenly, we learned that all those desolations that have occurred in Iceland and that sometimes during good weather, there is a great opportunity for us. I'm just going to say in this chair that I'm sorry that I've been able to handle matters for Iceland when you're working on a global climate discussion not to be able to point out and highlight the tremendous potential we have to engage in climate - healing operations or restoration of a country to create what someone even called the lungs for the world by promoting a seed cover. This matter is like so many other very good ones in the discussion that we are taking into consideration, not the curious, but science.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u64	Mr. President. There may not have been a direct question in the second answer to that question. But I agree with him that although I still believe that it may be even greater, it is a joy to know how much and how enlightened the debate has become about the climate at the council. In this context, I'd also like to mention that I think we should try to do all of this. We have much more to do, and that was so clear, too, in Greta Thunberg's speech about the climate. We have tremendous responsibilities in this room, at least With regard to the Icelanders and those who live in Iceland, but we also have a responsibility to the world and to our communities on this earth. That is why it is vital that we work hard and do even better in climate matters. I'm glad to hear the message from what happened. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandrafjörður Elis Elíasdóttir for presenting this synopsis proposal that I like and value most. I may have a similar depression. A senator who came up here to answer, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. I think it's very important to discuss these matters from all sides, and I have to admit to myself my ignorance: I thought I had a good look at things, but it's not long since I found that palm oil was used for biofuels. I'm also going to commend myself. A member of the Parliament for a very detailed and well - documented report with this synonym in which this matter is handled very well. However, it shows that sometimes the gel is a little too fast when emphasis is placed on e.g. biofuel or the mixture that I think is on the ground very good, except if we are dealing with raw materials such as palm oil, mentioned in this case and perhaps there is not the same result. Therefore, it is a little boring to see what the world around us has been responding to in this regard. That's why I'd like to encourage you. Work committees continue to discuss this matter and receive different perspectives on the table. And then I wanted to mention it, and I guess I can also come up with a job committee, that for us whom consumers often lack so much information. I have personally tried to avoid products that contain palm oil, and certain foods can be a challenge. In many ways, the store has been doing fine in the past, marking goods and other products; we have stressed these, for example. in agricultural products, in meat. We want to see clearly what is Icelandic and what is not Icelandic. I sometimes find it odd to see a package around bacon that I know is from the Icelandic manufacturer, but then when you start reading the little type, it's that pork from Germany. Regarding palm oil, which I know many consumers would want to avoid and choose another eco-efficiency option, the store might take it up to help us with the consumers of that subject. It can also help us to reflect on the meaning and meaning of our lips. I'm going to use a very classic phrase, a respectable president: I hadn't planned to extend this discussion in any way. But I've been doing it. I wanted to express my support for this synonym and also say that I am pleased to see what senators are doing here with issues related to the environment. It shows that this is our big case. The majority of the body of Congress agree very much on the importance of climate change and on the importance of combined and broad measures to achieve its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u66	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up for a minute to thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for his speech. There are two points that I found particularly interesting. One is that we are using the palm oil in the biodiver. This is so tragic, since, of course, it is very important that we use biodisil to reduce the use of fossil fuels, but, as we also came along in opposition to the dog. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, it's also important to look at the big picture. There are so many other things we can choose, rather than palm oil, that we know so clearly that we can adversely affect the environment, something that would have positive effects. I thought it was an important and good point by then. Senator. I also wanted to agree with what. A senator with regard to improved meaning. It's not just that it's too complicated to see in each palm oil, it seems to be in almost everything that's very boring. Then there's a case I've been looking at, and I'd love to hear it. A candidate on, and about some way or has some form of information site for consumers, where they can see the carbon footprints of the product they are buying. I know this may be a major project, inexplicable, and therefore I thought this way to use a website where people can pick up the information. It would be interesting to hear what you think. That's a senator's idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and my opportunity to extend the discussion here further. I agree with it, and I believe myself that it is very important that we use our fossil fuels to reduce emissions. But then, of course, important. A senator came in, that we use the best solutions. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson considered the advantages we have for developing in this country and should be a top priority for us to make good use of these in all climate discussions. Regarding the fine point as a dog. A senator came along to remind me that it was on Castry Show or some similar show on TV that a laboratory that had adopted it in his cafeteria to offer vegetables and meats but always show the carbon foot. I admit I'm no expert on it, but I imagine there may be some difference of opinion in this, and it's definitely not the simplest case in the world. However, I think there must be some kind of evidence of such a thing. I noticed earlier, when I went through the press, that there was a very thorough and thorough explanation for the import of plastic and soda that has grown in recent years. Much about the development of Costcos as well as the change in production practices at Vifilth and other factors, we bring in an enormous amount of water, the water nation itself, Iceland, which likes to boast of the best water in the world. We must have some questions. First, are we consumers aware of whether they are using Icelandic water or foreign water? Are we aware, then, of what the carbon tracks are behind the products we are buying? I don't think it's that, and I'm sure we could do much better with that. It is, therefore, mostly to the business of self and trade, to do better in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u68	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym which encourages education on biomass and review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services. The definition of interpretation implies that the General Assembly of Health Ministers to employ education for the general public in terms of histology and to have a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services with the objective of strengthening the analysis procedure and offering holistic treatment based on data from an experienced study. This resolution was proposed to the last assembly and is now reassigned by a second series of press releases. The case was discussed in 149, with five reviews, all of which undertook the objective of the Parliamentary arrangement and the need for a conscious awakening to bifocals. A review by the surgeon's office agrees with the importance of reviewing the overall organization of services for individuals with biomass and focusing on reaching all services points. A team of physical therapists pointed out that there was a shortage of paediatrics with histograms and hid ehfs. Showing the importance of employing people with milder grades of work have improved access to available services. Bruising is a chronic disease consisting of a broad range of signs and symptoms from the various organ systems. The main symptoms are chronic and generalised musculoskeletal pain, stiffness, overwhelming tiredness and sleep disorders. Other common symptoms include leg irritation, cold sensitivity, restless shingles, hypersensitivity urination, dead fingers, impaired concentration and depressed mood. In 1993, typhus was formally defined as a disease of the World Health Organization. There was a considerable amount of time before the disease gained general recognition in the medical community, but the above was commonly viewed as a garbage bin analysis. Over the years, prejudice has been linked to the disease that is important in destroying it by means of progressive instruction. Histogram is not measured by blood tests or X-ray tests, and this is no doubt one of the main causes of prejudice toward the disease. Gestures can work very hard and significantly reduce quality of life and the ability to perform daily activities. Gastrointestinal disorders are common in people of all ages but are the most common in middle age women. Many foreign studies show that the quality of life of these individuals is often very small, much less than in general. There are many manifestations of the disease. For some, symptoms are relatively mild and present late in life. At a modest level, people have work that is mostly in control of themselves, and they can maintain almost complete skills and skills. When symptoms develop, people often turn to doctors for pain, tiredness, and insomnia. When the disease is at a low level, people prepare for pain from morning to evening and their skills are severely impaired. It is often only when people receive the full attention of doctors and the system and respond firmly to the problem. Unfortunately, poor - grade individuals may be less effective and too many will become disabled. In December 2017, more than 1,700 individuals were enrolled into tissue arthritis as a causal factor in 75% of disability based on government insurance institutions, with a mean age of 49.9 years. At the same time, 268 individuals in the rehabilitation pen had histologically stable. In women of 75% histologically diagnosed disability, 91.7% of cases were observed. Histomancy was considered a contributing factor of 75% disability in 14% of all women who were in disability. It should be noted that microgastric patients are often caused by synergistic factors of tissue arthritis, other musculoskeletal disorders, and psychiatric disorders. Entire data are not available on the number of individuals diagnosed with histogram in Iceland. According to a 1998 study, under 14,000 individuals 18 years of age and older may have a biopsies well over the number of foreign studies. About 90% of those diagnosed with this disease are women. The majority of people diagnosed in the age of 30 in the 60th century, while the number of people in their early 30's is considerable. The cost of the individual, the health system, and the whole community is very high. At present there has not been a general medical assessment of the cost of histomyosis in this country. However, European studies have shown that 80◯90% of expenses are indirect costs of illness crisis, loss of work, and disability. It is estimated that the annual cost of health care, health care, and the rehabilitation of tissue transplant patients is at least 4576 billion. The community's precalculated cost due to the nesting patients who had 75% disability in December 2017 is about 1,000 billion. if you do not work well enough for years. Most subjects with tissue disorders are diagnosed by a healthcare professional, but in many cases they are sought for further confirmation from a rheumatologist. Individuals with mild symptoms will receive most medical services, but those with moderate or severe tissue disorders will require a wide variety of rehabilitation with the introduction of healthcare professionals. Here, several treatment centers offer such treatments, including Þraut, Smokeyund, the Institute of the Natural Medicine Association of Iceland, and Kristnes Hospital. The mean waiting time after multiple rehabilitation treatments is three to six months for the Health Organization of Who Types and up to two and a half years for Training. Waiting for a rheumatologist for a period of time may be a very long time. Motion drivers in the clinic and physical therapists play an important role in the treatment of tissue arthritis and wait for treatment to be treated at an equal level. In the early stages of the disease, treatment of biopsies has often been limited and randomised in this region. However, there are a number of factors that can be done to correct tissue arthritis and so it is important to initiate correct treatment prior to incineration. In order to achieve this, a formal diagnosis and assessment of the patient's status should be performed early in the process, and the individual must be offered as a complete and open-label treatment, both at the clinic and in centres that provide more specialized rehabilitation. A part - time surgeon's office on access to pogrom service for rheumatoid diseases, published in August 2019, concluded that the waiting period for service is far beyond the limit and that the lack of appropriate medical care for children and implantable adolescents is of particular concern. In this case, subjects with typhus would be referred to injectable ehf. from health care, but the waiting period was typically between two and three years for 600 people. The report points to the need for improvements in the ministry. It is recommended that patients require additional access to separate services and patient guidance. Transporters strongly suggest that the current medical care programme for tissue disease will be reviewed considering that the diagnosis and intervention plan of tissue are earlier in the course of the disease than is currently accepted and that treatment services will be extended concomitantly. Also, translucency authorities consider it important that health ministers initiate education in the general public, including tissue contact. to overcome prejudices due to the disease and to increase general understanding of the importance of self-adversive individuals taking action to support further disease development. A respectable president. I've made this council proposal, and those who are with me on it have a problem. Councilmen Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Ingi Pétursson, and Linnyka Sævarsdóttir Saevardóttir. The interpretation proposal includes assigning a health minister to use for public education and having a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services with the aim of strengthening the analysis procedure and of providing comprehensive treatment based on the results of cross-study data. The health - care system has to listen to this silent disease and recognize it as a major factor in the loss of workers of all ages and in isolation at home with a form of pain that disintegrations the individual, both at the job market and as a member of the community. To say that, I hope that the matter will go to a welfare committee that will discuss it. If the motion goes through, I believe this is a voice of this silent disease that has afflicted so many women and is a major factor in the disability of women in this country. It is important not only that this group be held around and that they receive a voice but also that women, as well as men who have the disease, come to treat them quickly so that they can get back to the work market. Both women and men have this disease, so this is important for the whole community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The crowning of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir is a great deal for the contributions of this synonym. I know she's moved back and I was one of the movers last, I feel very sorry to have fallen out, but I describe at least with great support for the synonym. I think we're discussing something very important. A senator came in very handy. I would also like to commend a more thorough and effective report with the suggestion. Hv. A senator merely admitted that this is a bit of a silent disease that has afflicted women more than men, although he can certainly afflict both genders. I came into this speech not long ago that one of the things that came out of our prosperity economy, or that group, was just what the life span of women in Iceland had suffered from good health. We live in a relatively high age, but life span in good health is something we need to look to. It shows that since collapse or after 2009, women's life span for good health has been affected. If it were highly desirable to have an assessment of it and to wonder what might cause it. But you wonder about such diseases, which I know can come out of pressures and anxieties and other things, that could be one reason, and therefore I think it is very important to find treatment for them. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate on one point because she specifically referred to a test, which is a multidisciplinaryly functioning unit in the field of health care. I realized that their agreement with health insurance was to be over by last year. That's what I'm talking about. A senator recognized the outcome? Is in force a contract with Triple Ehf. Or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for coming up and supporting this case. I would have liked to have her with us, we were looking for new importers, but something's been lost for getting what. A senator. Hv. A senator asks about training, which I think is a very good and useful treatment institution, and I'm a private therapist, certainly, and I've studied that operation. I don't have the information now if it has come up with an health insurance contract, because a contract had expired in the past year, and I haven't heard of it yet, but I hope that this contract has been extended because a very important job is being done there, as it is done in other institutions. But Þraut has been particularly focused on tissueing, and the doctor's name is Arnór Víkingsson, and he is very skilled in these matters and has helped me extensively in the preparation of this Parliamentary arrangement and has opened my eyes to the importance of this disease, that there will be a state of awareness about him, both in the health system and in the way that public education and prejudice will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u71	A respectable president. I apologize for perhaps having a very specific question. But I saw when I went to search my evidence, and remembered that I had been in the former council decree, that these were even. information that I acquired or got involved with the matter then. I'd like to encourage you. A welfare committee, a prospective, respectable president, to reflect on this too. I'm not going to speak specifically for any company in the town of per se, but I realize that this is a multi-disciplinary center, and I think it's so important when we deal with diseases like this, as well as the specific rehabilitation services and the Senate conclusion on it. I think we have a lot of access to further emphasis on the rehabilitation of the health system, and it's called more and more. As our life span increases, and of course, we want people to enjoy good health too, it is important that there is a good facilities for rehabilitation. I know especially the rehabilitation hospital, Smokeyund, since I know that it is also a cross-cutting team who is working on such a case. This may be interesting, too, in the discussion of health policy and the importance of having this service. Of course, I speak to a person's ability to choose a certain type of service. We know that there is now an invitation to serve as a physical therapist, and we need to find some good landings in the way we buy services from these private workers or from institutions in town. This is not necessarily a business of profit. But this may have included, not a direct question, but such a further expression on this fine subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-24-9.u72	A respectable president. I agree with your speculations. Senator. I'm sure it's an important job that is being done at Þrörtur and in other places. It's all about it. I believe with this conjugal proposal, it penetrates, we're building this job, whether it's in private or in other places where it's ignored. It matters. I think the money spent on both education and review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services with the aim of strengthening the analysis process will all be to save us a lot of money because many people are working for this disease and are coming back badly. And especially because people and women are severely affected spiritually. This is the silent disease called because it has not been recognized, and it is not formally defined as a disease until 1993. It is not even one generation since it was accepted.
