ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u1	Mr. President. Today, there are 38 days before the British leave the European Union. In other words, British politics can be said to be exhilarating in these days, and there is no sense that negotiations will succeed in the outing and the more and more likely the British will leave the European Union without a contract. Britain's Reservation Party is a real issue, but it's the same as the Avenger Party. It was reported yesterday that seven members of the council were disfellowshipped and announced the establishment of a new political party, suggesting that more members of both the Workers and the Keepers will follow. For us who are watching from a distance, there is good reason to be concerned about this whole development. The chances of Iceland getting worse after the exit than it was for growing day by day. In our dealings with the British, all talk about great opportunities for us becomes increasingly commodious. On October 16 last year, I asked three questions for the highest level. Secretary of state with written inquiry. They have not yet been answered. Six missing calls have been made to answer last night. The questions are about the rights of the Icelanders in Britain by Baltrexit. It is clear that these rights will be worse for those who choose to go to work and study after Bbifit, if defined by British government policies. That may be why it is the highest. Secretary of State is drawing their answers. He may find it difficult to show white people that our rights in Britain are worse than they are today. This reduces the tools, the rights we enjoy today, and the Bgret will disappear. Granted, governments have joined forces with Norwegians and Liechtenstein, in part, guaranteed the rights of those already in Britain but not the rest. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister of state should see his own respect in responding to my five - month - old inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u2	A respectable president. Yesterday, a DSA spoke in the evening news about vaccination with varicella. 5% of Icelandic children are vaccinated for varicella, and one child died last year. He discussed whether the vaccination should be given to the general vaccination. I found the discussion interesting and encouraging. A health minister to consider this. Granted, this new cost is not only possible to avoid much illness and possible death but it may also be extremely practical, as you can imagine the number of days of illness caused by the varicella of all children. Here is also a proposal for a interpretation of the service group order that suggests changes to increase the rate of vaccination of children. Her first carrier is Sverrisdóttir Sverrrisdótttir. Seems to me the proposal that all classes support her. It says that the General concluded to hide a health minister to order a team to identify what changes can be made in order to increase the percentage of vaccinations of children and to provide suggestions. According to one report, some of the problems have been found to be, especially, that parents have to have their children vaccinated out of complacency or other causes rather than on purpose. This proposal is an effort to improve within the medical system to ensure that as many as possible completes all the necessary vaccinations of their children in a manner recommended by the national surgeon to maintain herd resistance. It would be very good for this council-sense proposal to come on, and it would be agreed because I think it's very important, not just for all of us, but for our children as well. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u3	A respectable president. The payoff of the bank manager of the state banks has been very up - to - date in recent days. It would be a wish that this would be the biggest problem when it comes to our own banking system. Last year, when the bank was cut apart from the three banks, individuals paid 15 billion dollars. magazines in banks and have increased considerably from year to year. In addition, we pay about 5 to 6 billion dollars. A year in gangs, from our foreign maps, which puts the credit card companies on top of their registered gangs each time on account of our foreign purchases. At the same time as we will discuss the opportunities of increased financial competition, we have not, or have been involved in the national banking system, in ◯Single Euro Paynes Areas,.e. to pay, due to transfers between banks in the European Economic Area is like domestic transfers. Of course, this is a major obstacle to international competition. All of this is at the same well, Mr. President. There is no competition for a domestic financial market. Of course, the responsibility for this lack of competition lies largely with the owner of most of it, i.e. The kingdom itself. There is no pressure on the owner that there is an active competition in a financial market. A global financial system is a burden to the society in which it operates. This financial system is competitive and too expensive. It is a burden on SMEs which cannot be made available to other funding. It is a burden in Icelandic households that needs to live up to the high standards of banks and high financial expenses. It is high time for this to be taken, so that it is not the most important thing in this, which, of course, is the cost of the currency and the protection established by the currency for this domestic financial system to work without any competition. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u4	Mr. President. By Christmas, the business speed was presented to the sea and country ◯. The purpose is to support innovation in agriculture and marine soil, focusing on sustainability. The project is very good and important for us as a society that is largely based on the use of resources to sea and land. Today, increasing self - efficiency in both agriculture and fishing, it is important to lay the foundation for the future, the creation of innovation, intelligence, and creativity. Key elements are that such work is being done on the basis of sustainability. We need green economy, and there's not much better for a home than a homey. At the speed, Icelandic Startips cooperates with the Icelandic Seaship, along with IKEA, Iceland's Food Red, HB Granda, and the agricultural mall. So it's a private and government cooperation project. I received an introductory presentation of the project held in the East. I understand that it took quite a bit of effort to get a presentation on the assignment in the East, which is most surprising at a time when we speak of the equal rights of the citizens, regardless of their home country. As in the past, most of them were asked about the cost of travel, with a wide range of distances. During the day, although there is no advantage in participating in the project for pioneers, there is no ear - to - ear money. For the creative pioneers living in the East, you have to cough up at least half a million for the eight weeks of travel. For part of the country, it seems to me that there is an unnecessary barrier that is in desperate need of additional innovations and increased investments in innovation. A recent report is being published by the Based Institute for Economic Growth in 2008◯2016, divided into part of the country. It reveals that the Middle East has been on the rise in recent years. There the economic growth is negative by 1%, i.e. After the completion of the larceny, the production has declined in all parts of the country as the country has grown by about 10 percent. It presents the importance of such projects, and we cannot afford to do even better in these matters so that future activities will be carried out throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u5	A respectable president. Last Friday, a very interesting presentation meeting on the United Nations World Goals was held at the Grand Hotel in Reykjavík. The meeting was held by the European Union of rural society in cooperation with the world's mission management. The meeting was well attended, but it was also flowed through the Union's website, allowing rural and rural personnel throughout the country to be able to participate in the field. V.E.G. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir noted that the OECD Institute of Economic and Development has published that 65% of the 169 sub-targets of the world without active access and participation in the countryside cannot be met. Thus, rural society is key to the implementation of the implementation of the world target. Some rural communities have begun their induction work, and I believe Kópavogur is one of the longest at work. A very interesting and informative presentation was coming from them. What a joy it was to find the motivation and strength that appeared at the meeting and the many good work assignments are being done in rural and rural communities! The world's goals are a projection program for mankind, the earth, and prosperity. They are the work of each one of us individually as well as the society in which we live. Fine generals. I encourage you to enter the European Union's Web site, find you the details of the meeting, then participate in the work that lies ahead, as well as the people in the community, and elected agents at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u6	V.E.G. President. It is good for all politicians to sit down from time to time, especially if they temporarily fall out of Congress, to find out what they are doing in politics. What are your goals? What are you going to do? What is it that you burn for changing in Iceland? One of the things I'm burning for is that of our joint political, professional, and community to increase Iceland's competitiveness. Why should we want to do so? Because by doing so, we are strengthening the economy of Iceland. We increase stability and valuables, resulting in improved quality of life for all citizens of the country. Our job life becomes more varied. All of this leads young people who are choosing where they are going to live are more likely to live in Iceland. Of course, we do. How on earth do we increase Iceland's competitiveness? We do this by reforming our education system, by making sure that our education system listens to what our job life is missing, by supporting industry, and by increasing the opportunity for young people to take their seats in high school classes, including at school. At college, like a nice bill. paritaprevir The Master of the Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir Child leads to it. This is important. It is important that all children in this country have equal opportunities to educate themselves. We need to create innovation and innovations around the world. We need to build up infrastructure and improve the work conditions of an enterprise so that it will not be too complicated for companies to choose a place to live in Iceland. Stability is important for us to increase Iceland's competitiveness, and that is exactly what the government here has to offer. I am happy to share in the government's journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u7	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir made varicella and a vaccination against her to discuss the subject. I'd like to use this field to say that in answer to the highest degree. A health minister to my written request for oral response said that this case was now a positive attitude within the Ministry and that the cost analysis indicated that it would be very practical for Icelandic society. So I think we can expect something to happen in these matters soon enough. I think that's very positive. Otherwise, it wasn't that matter that made me keep quiet here. Rather, I would like to draw attention to a language that is no. 14 on the program today, which deals with the United Nations Convention on the ban on nuclear weapons. I have previously made it clear that the subject here on the platform of nuclear weapons and a nuclear race and the importance of nuclear weapons being banned by international treaties. It is important that we talk about these matters, and we become conscious of these matters to ourselves, the common people, and the rest of the world. I'm especially happy to be the highest. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir took up this matter at his meeting with the U.S. Secretary of State Pompeo. Now 25 sitting members of Congress have signed some sort of challenge or promise to give this contract a walk, and I really hope that these senators will be involved in the discussion of this enormous convergence at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u8	V.E.G. President. I know it's the highest. The President can agree that a voter is one of the most fun things that happen in the lives and function of members of Congress. Then we will have the opportunity to go many places, and we, the reverends, will find how many people are burning throughout the country. Of course, there are different attitudes, the environment differs, and the circumstances as well. Then our natural role is to try to face the reality of the local reality and wonder how we can do better. On the contrary, all of us want to do better, and there is also one good thing that we can quite prove, that more often than not, it's a good partnership with groups on the interests of all the people of the country. We even went. in Southnesin, and spent a long time in Smokeynestown. We took a house to the police, where a very different environment was taken care of - properly controlled, but the environment is changed there - as was the case with the Southnes National Institute of Health. Both these positions face a changed environment, and the people who live there, as well as those who serve there. There's a 25% increase in recent years in the Southnes. It has become the fourth largest rural society in the country, but, sadly, governments, whatever they are, now this government, have not faced the changed environment and the pressures most often brought into the Southern Institute of Health. We heard from the mayor and the town council representatives and it was unanimous - there are different priorities, different interests between towns and rural groups - support to keep better up with the Southnes Institute of Health, supporting the Agency's ability to live up to this changed picture, a 25% increase as possible. This is not being shown by the government when it comes to support. [[The president calls.]] I specifically urge the health authorities to examine the situation in the Southnes'town of Smokeynes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to spend this brief time at the council to talk about the labor struggle, talking about the more serious situation we now face in the community today. Thursday we will find out what measures to take. I contacted a good acquaintance, Vilhjálmur Birgisson, the First Vice President of the Common Association, right now just before I arrived at the council. I refer directly to what he was quoted in the media: The situation was serious then, but my Lord, he is serious now, says Vilhjálmur Birgisson. He went out of a meeting with the government and with the personnel of the Board of Directors now at lunchtime. Why? It's amazing if that's really the way it is now... I'm gonna refer to Vilhjálmur more. He asks: "Where are members of the left green, especially in view of the demand for the labor movement in the coming collective agreements, which is exactly the same as the left - green bill being heard here a few years ago? It is that a minimum pay is sufficient for forwarders given by the Ministry of Health so that people can support themselves from month to month and maintain human dignity. It's sad to see how council members and ministers of the left green now spread their sheets above their heads in view of their real opportunity now, the highest. President, to be with the Icelandic workers. A respectable president. The time has come for us to rub the glow out of our eyes and bring real action to support what should come, for it is not as if what we are facing right now is entirely prophetic. There has been a compromise. We've known for months. All we're calling for is minimal justice. All this government is asked about is: Stop taxing poverty. Because that is exactly what is being done here, and it seems that no remedy should be done in that matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u10	A respectable president. I still make the subject of immigrants, refugees, passengers, new Icelanders, or what name we would like to give to the large group of people in Iceland who are looking for a farm for longer or shorter time. Most people move here voluntarily, many of the most difficult situations. Worldwide, there are about 250 million people, people who are looking for a secure food supply and a safer future for themselves and their children. This may be followed by a variety of factors, economics, weather conditions, or the presence of an evil state in close communities. Many Westerners cannot wash their hands because of the poor conditions they bear in many parts of the country where we live, so we are required to show understanding and tolerance, and we may be encouragingly failing our years. Do we? No, we beat off and in and out of voices that harbor suspicion and fear. Do we have specific policies on how we welcome strangers who would like to settle down here? No, it's all kind of weird, whether it's children, students, or working people. Here, over 44,000 people have a foreign national address from some 170 countries. A four - year strategy on the affairs of immigrants has expired. The budget is mostly unused in the minister's drawer. In spite of the best intentions, knowledge, and experience, there is a wide variety of material resources to live in, and despite the need to carry out their assignments. And now, it is the latest controversies proposal to create a temporary living quarters here on the southwest corner. No policy. Mr. President. Is it not time for the council to move forward, set long - term goals, work on the setting and policy of immigrants? That's what we want in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u11	A respectable president. The Government Treaty specifically addressed the workforce and the importance of reconciliation with a labour market. It has an artistic objective for the government, e.g. chain responsibilities, sexual wages, social subheadings, and other factors. The majority's will is clear in these. Many things have already been done to make up children's improvement to those who have the lowest salary and that is in the water. The government represented by the Generals has made it clear that there will be room for tax doctors to be used for those with the lowest salary. A respectable president. There is now a serious debate in the labour market. There are two sides that divide, one for labor movement, and the other for the job. Despite a declared willingness to cooperate, the government is not at the bargaining table. A respectable president. It's not possible for the General Assembly, us here with 63 members of the Congress who are to abide by only the law and our convictions, to be threatened. It's arrogance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u12	Mr. President. During these last days, we have been very much discussing the interest of the bank manager of the Land Bank. This morning a news report was published at the bank's bank council that the bank's bank manager's salary is in accordance with government ownership, which states that the bank's work policy is competitive but moderate and not leading. In other words, the bank council believes that the four million paid by the bank manager are modest salary. On this statement from the Board of Banks, one question arises: Where is the excessive line to begin? I think it would be very interesting for everyone if Iceland's Bank of Bankers published information as to what is excessive in its opinion. It has been observed that in 2009, at the cost of the bank's bank manager, the bank was lower than any other bank because it belonged to the State. It has also been observed that when Iceland's Bank went into the state, the bank manager's pay went down that did not operate there was a set of criteria for raising the pay of the Bank. Now I make it clear that I'm not talking about the characters and players, I'm just talking about the office or the job, and I honestly find it strange that there we are talking about a company of 98% owned by the state. It may be an idea for those who recommend this board of banking to put matters in such a way that they can make their reputation of their jobs every four years and choose a direct vote by the bank council. At present, elected representatives in this country have no access, no access, and no access to any of the arrangements or decisions taken in this bank as the State or the nation, though 98.3%. [[The president calls.]] That is a thought - provoking point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u13	Mr. President. For several years now, there has been an emergency in housing. What has been done by the government is too small and too late. Nor has the market solved the problem: Who decided that the market should completely take care of and solve the domestics? Likely the same human intelligence decided that agriculture and fishing routes would be excluded from all market laws. We know of children, older citizens, microchips, and immigrants in industrial houses, garages, storage, and flippers. We are free to have political opinions that each one has his own good fortune. I'm among them. But the first responsibility of the State is to help those who cannot help themselves. These include children and cripples. Like food and water, living is not a luxury but a basic need. So there is a lack of house - to - house territory that can be compared to that of the ancient Soviet Union. If this is not cleared quickly and it's only a matter of time before the wheelhouses and cardboard boxes start to rise. In 1973, after the Western island eruption, over 500 - member homes were moved into and built in some 20 places around the country. We all know the maintenance houses, and more of them are still in use 45 years later, a fine house. Therefore, I suggest that this problem be begun, already, by the building of an acceptable unit house in the spirit of the ancient Appetizer Fund, for this problem to be solved, because it is a disgrace to the highest degree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u14	Mr. President. Last September there was a debate at the conference Hall on payment of health insurance during those who were born with a cleft palate or lip and were asked directly to the highest level. Secretary of health. His comments stated that it was a matter of opinion as to interpretation of regulations. V.E.G. In other words, a minister repeated the efforts of the Ministry to clarify the position of the concerned children in order to keep the children and their parents from getting in such an uneven position. To make a long story short, parents sent an application for payment on health insurance, this time in February, where the wording of the Regulation had been changed. The application was denied based on the lack of appreciation for the seriousness of speech. The same was said before, so it can be concluded that nothing has changed. Are applications being completed on the basis of unchanged regulations despite the clearer wording? I'm being ignored for the highest will. Minister? What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u15	A respectable president. This morning at a meeting of the environment and transport committees were requested for longer meetings of the Committee and found to be increasing. I filed a book on the request that in part sounds like this, with the permission of a president: The prolongation of meeting times and the growth of meetings have vastly different effects on members and other members of the council. The need for prolongation of committees and the increase in meetings is entirely in my opinion of the failure of committees on the part of the former Commission and the failure to organise the administrative sector in the process of transport. It was, therefore, that the government's transport program took almost all the time of the Commission during the autumn Council and even part of the work of the current spring council. As a result, in the fall of the fall, a new arrangement of transportation has to be implemented. It is understandable, though, that the committee takes time in the same important schedule, as well as the plan that we ended with which it should not have taken so much time. To extend and increase meetings, there are different effects on members of the Committee. I have, for example. a meeting of 65 members of this council was held, the chairman of the Committee has arrived at 25 C.E. Senators have a lot of work to do, and work planning is done by committees and meetings. All preparation takes place beyond the time mentioned by committees and very often beyond the time of meeting, where matters need to be followed at a meeting. It may be that there was a very long period of time to discuss the basis for a longer meeting and a higher number of them. Part of the evidence was that the government case was so large or that there were so many cases of Congress. How ironic, then, that the next subject on the program was the chairman's subject. I don't mind paying Congress, but there's no time to ask for more time to settle government issues and then watch an agent waste time on his own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, on her overall review of the constitution. The emphasis on the discussion will be the overall reexamination process proposed by the prime minister on January 22, 2000. Second, who are the sides of the project? What is their situation today, and what does the rest of it look like? Third, what opportunity does Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, consider, the highest? Prime Minister, is this overall review recommended, and especially by consultation with the public with reasoning surveys? The first point is what the prime minister mentions in a memo about his assignment a year ago. It says, by permission of the president: The Treaty of the Government states: The government wants to continue its overall review of the Constitution into a cross - political partnership with the arrival of the people and, among other things, the methods of public society. The committee will begin work at the start of a new council, and the government will emphasize the progress of social relations in the career of the work. I continue to carry what says in the Prime Minister's memo, with the permission of a president: In view of this promise in a government covenant and communication between the presidents of the classes and their representatives in the last term, the minister of the Presidency suggests the following. Clearly, these words, like the rest of the government covenant, are binding on this government. V.E.G. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has said that this is what the government intends to do. V.E.G. The Ministers of Bjarni Benediktsson and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson have both agreed to this. The covenant was then set up and approved by councils and the central administrations of the Independence Party, 200 people there, 200 people, 200 people there, and a left green, 80 people there. As prime minister, she received this into the government covenant, which is very respectful and very important to continued the process, and it was accepted by all concerned. So, then, does Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter have the full authority as prime minister of the country, the government, who has agreed to attend this overall review of the Constitution, and the administrative committees for that -- I quote again into the treaty -- ◯ continue the overall review of the Constitution in the transverse cooperation with the people and, among other things, use the methods of public policy. The person who betrays this in the government covenant is inconspicuous of his words. If it is not possible to trust that those classing them in the government covenant are not governments. They need to have doubts about what they say when they're making the next government contract, and they're out of control. The good news is that Prime Minister has caused the overall review of the Constitution in this government. She has the authority to do so. I'm starting this discussion so that Prime Minister has the opportunity to come up here and talk about this matter and talk about its opportunities, and there are certainly many of them, so that we get to see if there is any will, we don't have to be blindly confident that there is a willingness to exist because of the authority of the prime minister. So I would like to ask the prime minister, " What are the subjects of the project? ' What is the situation today, and what is the subsequent appearance? The memo reveals something, but certain factors are slight. It seems to me that the review, which is the first item to be ready for June this year, is still within the box, but it begins open with reasoning surveys, as stated in the Prime Minister's memo on each of these items. So the people know what they are, let me name them, that's the environment and natural resources, the use of resources and the protection of the environment. It is a political position, one to the international institutions, and also to the nationals themselves in national terms. Then there's the Presidential Clan and the European Commission, and finally there's a review of how we're changing the constitution. This is what is to be done, and a review has been made. Next up is a community agreement, consultation with the public, including is referred to here as reasoning debates. What I find the most exciting in this process all of my life is these debates. Have professors from Harvard and Stanford, James S. Fishkin at Fishkin and Lawrence Lessig, law professor at Harvard University, pledge to help the Icelandic government free and arrive at these reasoned surveys. They mean that the politicians who debate over much of these things can give their views, but the people are randomly chosen to come together and reason on the political viewpoints, as to how they feel about these difficult issues, and how they feel about them. This has meant that in many nations people have been able to gather themselves for the administrative changes that politicians have not been able to make. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to hearing how the prime minister describes the process for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for bringing up the situation in terms of a full reexamination of the Constitution. Hv. A senator asked where the assignment was, but as noted, I made a memo in the beginning of this process that has been on the table of the officers and representatives of the classes. In fact, I proposed recent revised memos to review the continuation process because this is a project that has changed with more meetings. The basic concept is that the current constitution will be reviewed in all of this and the next terms and work periods and that the work will take into account the great work being done both in the work of the Directorates of 2005◯2007 and 2013◯2016, as well as on the field of administrative committees, management agencies and monitoring committees, as well as on the much community discussion that has followed. The memo showed how that project was divided, and I can inform you that we have spent considerable time discussing both natural resources, environmental protection, national legal requirements, legal rights, the Presidential section and the Commission's Commission and the Editing regulations. All of these activities have been discussed once or more and are in some kind of process. The idea was that during the next election period, chapters on the Council, elections, courts, national churches, rights regulations, and introductions would be taken. On the other hand, if I were willing to do so in the prehuman group, I would not see any resistance to the project and things were making faster. I wouldn't mind it myself. We've had ten meetings, and we've been trying to achieve the wider solidarity of the laws that will be submitted. We may never fully agree on the changes, but it is important that we rely on what has been done and that we strive to be solidly united. Because of what? Since a candidate brings up the opportunities for consultation with the general public, there are, of course, many things to be discussed. We have, for example. As early as 2000, we discussed a set of resource requirements in a constitution, with little breaks. If we are looking to a general discussion of environmental regulations and national regulations, it is a law that has been widely discussed among the public. I would say that in order to create the treatment of a candidate, the general public is less discussed if I take an example at random. The thought is that we will have as much transparency as possible. Since we have been criticized for our lack of transparency, we have tried to post more paper from our work now on our website. Since then, we have considered key options for public society, where there are ways to go. Standard screening can be performed. You can do a so - called reasoning survey, which is why. A senator referred to him. It is also possible to think of a so - called democracies, called in English ◯crowd soucing, where the public can put forth ideas related to a constitution and reason, often with involvement of politicians and experts. What we have discussed is to set up a standard scan, where the views of the Icelanders toward the Constitution and its revision will be investigated. We've discussed this with the Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland. Then there is the thought of a reasoning poll, which is not the final time, but we are thinking it perhaps a year in advance, based on the results of the scan. Hv. A senator referred to a fine meeting in which presidents and representatives were invited to meet with foreign experts in that area, but at the same time. A senator, I think, alone with the project manager, though. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir. To explain this, it is possible to obtain a smaller sample of the country from around the country, perhaps 300 people, where a specific matter is addressed. Thus, it is effective that participants receive an invitation to participate in a discussion of certain matters, to respond to the same survey that they answered before the meeting, and then to answer for the third time before the meeting ends. Thus, how a person's attitude changes with what he or she learns, has the opportunity to converse with experts, and has a conversation about the subject in a smaller group. When asked in a general view scan, we rely on the attitudes we have in advance and may not have much thought in mind, so the reasoning survey is a means by which we can have public discussions on a particular subject and where the reasoning will lead us. I think it's a very exciting tool for myself. It would be very exciting for the government to try using such devices, which have been new in many places. We have seen examples of this, both from the United States and from Europe. This was to form a new one in Ireland, with a complex solution that called for a lot of discussion. I could believe that this would be important not only for the review of the Constitution but also for the government to try such new methods in public society. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for bringing up a legal case. This is something that we, politicians at the Council, owe the nation to be truly serious. Why? Yes, because we have somehow failed to go to this overall review and finish the job since 1874 when the work started. We owe it to the people to finish this. The General agreed on an overall review. The Council of Government was appointed 25 chosen individuals who were first elected by the public and then by the majority of the council. The Council of Government took decisive action and gave the General Assembly a new constitution set before the nation so that they could off or on whether to build on it. And the people chose: Yes, thank you. The people decided to support them. The work continued here at the council. But where are we now? Today, we are referred to as prefects in the General Assembly that have found that I think ten times in 14 months. The last news was that not all of us necessarily agreed that a full reexamination of the Constitution should be conducted, even though that was the policy since 1874. Today, some members, even the presidents, may feel that this is not necessary. But let us not overlook the fact that the Constitution has been under way without letup throughout this time. 36 cases were passed just in 1874 servant942 to change the constitution. Mr. President. The other day, a new bill was presented for a administrative law. I think a waste of time would be to clear the path and put it through the council. [[The president calls.]] It will never be the complete reconciliation to change the constitution. It will not be a work that will be permanent and will never be changed again. Let's just do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u19	Mr. President. I wanted to thank you at the beginning. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for bringing up this matter in the way he did in his introduction, which I thought was taken into account by the political reality we are living in today rather than by being trapped in the past debates, I want to mean, how the situation was handled here during the election period of 2009◯2013. Since then, the Council has been selected three times, and much has changed in the political environment. I think that when we discuss the project now, we are to be stuck somewhere in the winter of 2012/2013 to discuss the situation as it is today. That's what I think it is. Prime Minister, whether or not, do so. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, but a little less was involved in his speech. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, who could discuss these matters for a long time, but I'm going to skip it this time in the two minutes I have an arrangement. I hope I'll have a chance to do that later. [[Up front.]] Our position on change of constitution is different. It varies from person to person and from group to group. The way to the highest. The first - century minister of the Watch Tower Society has arranged for a compromise. This does not mean that everyone has 100% agreement on all things, of course not, but I view when political leaders take part in such activities as this, they make a commitment to work things on the basis and in the direction they are expected. Then they can have private opinion that something different should be done. But while you're sitting at this table and working things that way, I think they should concentrate on it and let other procedures or other means of making this revision occur - at least in the meantime. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u20	President. Two main points are the subject of the highest level of work. Prime Minister has held his guard to the revision of the Constitution; on the one hand, for the Pirata representative, why. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, inquires about a job that his team has been participating in, and he even himself has been involved in. This is particularly interesting in view of the fact that Piratar, their members all told me, has already proposed a new constitution, provided a bill for a new constitution, and if there is something to mark that bill, there is no other way to look at than that Piratars told themselves about the work they were doing. A member of the party is now asking for. The other thing to pay attention to is the highest. The prime minister should overlook that fact and pretend that nothing has happened. Actually, it's like the highest. A minister seems to overlook the fact that the work has not really submitted any solidarity over what was already mutual at the beginning of the work. It could even be said that there was some sparkling, i.e. there have been disagreements about issues that were not at issue before. The most important example may be a bill. Pirata's members, who can't help but be eliminated from their work. They were eliminated from the solidarity that had been formed regarding the processing of the constitution. Because I don't think Pirats expect to be discussing here by their actual bill of a new constitution, but at the same time, they are really working according to a different method and other plans, which had developed some sort of harmony with the Constitution review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u21	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, for this discussion on the Constitution and the Supreme Court. For her input, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir was the prime minister. It is important to keep up - to - date discussions about the Constitution as well as to discuss it regularly, especially on the highest project. Governments are on their way. According to a government contract, she wants to continue with the full reexamination of the Constitution. It will always be necessary, as it may be, that they will be in a cross political partnership by the arrival of the nation and by the methods of public council. I welcome the emphasis that is placed on taking advantage of the careers of abduction, that is important, and based on the social discussion that has taken place, although, of course, there will always be different opinions on how far to go, both material and size. A determined will to reevaluate the Constitution with a special emphasis on a new resource directive was stated at the anybody in 2018 Assembly. The applicant category has given high importance to the resource directive and resource use and to add the national resource directives to the current constitution. In addition, the category has highlighted clear laws on direct democracy and environmental protection. The head of the party, the highest. The secretary of transportation Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, then Prime Minister, gave a bill for a constitution of a change in constitution. It was August 2016, and the proposals turned to environmental protection, national property of natural resources and national requirements based on the signatures of common voters. Although I believe that there was no room for reconciliation for these changes, I did not have time to settle them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u22	Mr. President. I'm celebrating this discussion. It reflects in a sense how different we are here. We differ in the large and large subject of our constitution, and we are also required to have our freedom to focus on the work that is being done under the leadership of the prime minister. As far as we're concerned, I'd like to stress that we in Reunion have our opinion, we believe that the Constitution needs to be changed. While there are differing viewpoints within such a number of categories, we sincerely want to share in the work that the prime minister has set up and support the arrangements she has made for it. Of course, I'd like to encourage the highest, too. Prime Ministers to keep members of the government on the subject, for the Treaty speaks of the overall review of the Constitution in a cross - political partnership with the people. This is of utmost importance. All government groups must also work with sincerity and honesty when it comes to working on a change in constitution. I certainly would have liked to see certain things set out for me. We can talk about a complete reexamination or not, we're in a certain path that I think is very important. We must not overlook making use of the present opportunity. We should also not allow those who refuse to make any changes. Of course, the step we are taking is now to compromise. I would've liked to see an equation of vote-or-treating pay made in this terms, but not at the next one. But there are other things I also stress on and on the wood, such as getting the resource and environmental principle the first. It has been too long before, and I believe it will be a song now so that it will succeed with other important issues. I'll mention the section of the President, the exposition, the change, all of which are very important. We're actually working on an overall review of the Constitution for the next eight years. [[The president calls.]] I'm supporting the top line. Prime Minister and will work with sincerity and honesty throughout all the work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u23	A respectable president. I can agree with almost every word. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said here. We're working together on a change and a review of a constitution. There's been an orderly compartment of the highest level. The prime minister has anticipated this and worked along with our fine employee who has led this work with a great deal of hard work, why. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir. I can't see any better than that we really have a strong desire to make things work. There's nothing we can do. The nation's will is clear, it was called first, and lastly, we want the resource directive, we want our resources into the constitution. We want the resources to be our people. There's only one factor in it, and that's exactly one of the points in the constitution that we're determined to work on right now, and the goal is to be set for the nation's next choice. I wouldn't be telling the truth if I didn't say I have a good feeling about what we're doing. I feel like we're going together in what we're doing. On the other hand, it is a bill that Piratars put forth of others to hurt them. I'm not gonna look at it so that they're not working with us, yet, wholeheartedly, to what we're doing, because that's exactly what I think they're doing. I think we're all working hard, with all our heart. I am optimistic and smiling at what is to come. I know we're going to get a new constitution. It's not the question of whether it's just when.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u24	Mr. President. It is a joy to have an opportunity to discuss the Constitution on that occasion. It is a great deal of work on the part of some to speak down the current constitution, the 1944 Republic Constitution that was accepted by the majority votes of voters at its time. It also seems to be a great industry here on behalf of some to speak as if the project is that we accept here entirely a new constitution, thus overturning the current government structure of the country. I'll let me say it's just like everybody else. What may be lacking is, in principle, a law to ensure that the resources of the country belong to the nation and then to a variety of democracies at the top of a vote, a direct democracy, and a person's reputation. I emphasize the gradual changes made in far - reaching peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u25	Mr. President. This president group is indeed happy and that in the cooperation of the government, it is specifically stated that the Constitution should be revised in its entirety. I know that many of those who were disappointed, even angry, with the conclusions and proposals of government are very happy that this is on schedule and in the process. I just wanted to thank my partner. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, for taking the matter on the program here, and I especially look forward to seeing the nation's national pay requirements, as well as the nation's initiative to present a case to the General, which the people believe the World Council is out of hand. It's a very important right and an equation. There was a personal term in the Council of Government proposals. I gave you a bill at this council for the PUB, a bill originally submitted by Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. She gave me friendly permission to keep it alive so I don't feel it's wrong to have plan B if things go bad at this job, she even ends up on something. It is very important that we be able to act as soon as possible. I believe most of these fundamental issues are solid agreements. [[The president calls.]] The only thing I'm worried about is how we should interpret different declarations from the government categories, individual members who have expressed themselves contrary to this overall review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u26	President. I thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for his introduction to this discussion. It's good for us to do one thing. Let's see how things are going. As a matter of fact, it's been a pretty good place to work. I must commend the highest. Prime Minister for having had very limited information about how work is being done and how it is acting. There have been memos on how work is being done and what is going on, this last December. As we have seen, and here are some of them. Congress members internalize it, states the highest government contract. Governments that a total review of the Constitution should be undertaken in a transnational partnership. And that's exactly what they're doing. The presidents, or spokesmen of the classes of the Council, have met ten times. The project has been divided into phases. During the previous period, subjects such as national possession of natural resources, environmental protection and nature protection, national pay will be taken into account by the participation of a section of the Parliament or a smaller part of the council, expedite authority for international cooperation, II. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic and many other matters, and perhaps most important of the constitution's decision. There is something that often goes forgotten during the discussion that must be included in the package, for the changes we made in the constitution depend naturally on the constitution that is in force when changes are made. Since then, what will be settled during the second period has been reported, so I think work is very good. I'm not worried about any outstanding statements because we're applying the government covenant, and it's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for taking the initiative in this discussion. The United States supports the aim of the committee Prime Minister to meet the overall review of the Constitution and want to work on integrity within the committee elsewhere. The Constitution is the basic law of Icelandic society, and it is still the basis for the European Commission's provisional budget. The European Commission's key stipulation is still a preliminary document. We do this in various ways, in hazy rules, in delinquency and in the spa administration. This committee's work gives us opportunities to be faithful. It is important that all classes come to this work, since we here represent different ideals and interests that are important for such work. The weakness is that they know how to use this job to cover the case and to delay it, men who think we're well-designed by a paternal form of freedom that we've received 1874, men who don't want to do anything in the Constitution and do it well and do it for a long time. The head of the Independence Party was moved to have books on the Committee that did not feel the need for the overall review of the Constitution, which were natural news for others who felt that they were working according to the Commission's own letter for the General Review of the Constitution. The Constitution is not a personal law or political matter to all of us. The Constitution is not only about the foundation of our community ship but also about our daily lives and the future of our children. [[The president calls.]] It's about human rights, democracy, nature protection, resources and sustainableity. It's about power in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u28	V.E.G. President. Contrary to most of the other members of the council here, I do not particularly want to thank a candidate for this special discussion. I don't know why she is now. The lead leader is on the committee to review this and his squad. V.E.G. The prime minister has informed everyone in the hall, and we know exactly what is happening. What a different purpose this special discussion is today! What is included in the constitution is not necessarily discussed in the discussion. What is a constitution, what does it have there? Of course, it belongs to a national government ship and a principle that we're not changing here every day by law and that we're not part of a daily political bitch. It belongs to a constitution, but somehow many groups have the idea that they need to put their own concerns and policies into a constitution. A special invention is that the Constitution had to be overthrown by some banks. We are still in this discussion, as if the Constitution was never changed and never was revised. Many changes have been made, many have changed, all the laws of human rights, certain changes to the government of the country. It has been in the process of continuous renewal and revision and change. Of course, things can change. I have a special interest in studying the section on the Presidency. No one seems to know what the President's real power is. There are always new ideas every time a new president comes around to know what power he has. We need to rethink this, and we need to go over it. Of course, if we are to remain in the EEA deal, the Constitution needs to be established. This must be done, but of the transformation of new ideologies and new political states in a constitution now there will be no reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] It's just gonna be a mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u29	V.E.G. President. There is no question that there are very different opinions between members and members of the council as to what is involved in the current work and where to lead. So it may not be out of the way of asking the highest question. Prime Minister, what does she think of that work? I had understood this as if to use the fact that there seemed to be a number of things involved in the Constitution and searching for what was best agreed on, finding what could be achieved, and moving on accordingly. But then we see here, and we hear the discussion, a very different view of that work, and to the point of at least One category has proposed a constitution. Then you ask: Which will be the target, the Pirata bill for a new constitution, or their work in a group of presidents for reviewing constitutions, or the factors that can be met there? So the question is, Where will this work lead? What is its purpose? Is this just a sign - of - fact agreement to say that it has been possible to consult groups and consultations with the general public, but is it intended to form some sort of greater part of the changes that the greater things, which will not necessarily be the administrative issue in view of the discussion, could reach? It is important for the representatives of the classes to know this. What's the work to be the highest? Prime Minister holding his arm?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u30	A respectable president. I would like to thank you for this discussion of an ongoing revision of the constitution. As we have seen, the agreement to continue the overall review of Constitutions into cross - political cooperation with the country's approach and consultation with the general public is consistent. My feeling is that while a large part of the public is interested in the revision of the Constitution, it's even larger things that have little to do with it and has little to do with the discussion. Is it perhaps the challenge in this work to make sure that those who are not heard in a day - to - day way about this issue also share their views? How can we make sure that our discussion with the public gives the view of all people, both those who feel that there is a great change in need and those who feel that little change is needed? Maybe it's a reasoning poll. I think it's important to try that methodology. Although it is important to call for comments on a subject, our main attention is to those who are most interested. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson did well here in reviewing the policy of the advance party, which can be read from policies and resolutions of the council council. It has declared support for the current constitution, as well as support for revision, a work that would be done in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u31	Mr. President. Discussion of a constitution is always needed and even necessary. I have missed only the case of those here who have said that they will rip up by themselves who will put a constitution in the country. Who's the director? You see, the ruler of the Constitution is the nation. Our clients are supposed to set us rules. Sometimes we forget and discuss what each member of the Parliament wants, but that may not matter altogether. The important thing is what the people want. How can we arrange for this to happen? In this process, interesting attempts are made to do so. I think it's very risky, as noted here, that this depends on how political winds blow at each council every time what a constitution should be, or not to be. I think it's very dangerous. I think we should also be absolutely fearless in talking about total reexamination as expected in the highest plan. Prime Minister. It does not necessarily involve any sort of asteroid. There are a few things that can be revised, changed, and accepted once things are considered, that there are only very good principles to be found, and that they do not need to be changed. I think we need to watch out for something, huh? Senators, they say they don't have the constitution. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u32	A respectable president. I'm not going to take it to myself. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson finished his talk earlier, that we thought we had the constitution. It is clear that without the presence of the Generals, after the people have voted for them, there would be little change in constitution. But it is true that the people must have become, and the people had spoken, had told their own meaning in what they wanted to do with the constitution. If we look at the rearview mirror slightly, the fact is that we have never really had our own constitution. At that time, we received the special constitution of the so - called 1874 C.E. from the king of the Dana. She was essentially the Danish constitution unchanged unless the term had been adopted as King, and instead we received the term president. We've done some things to improve our constitution, and it's been changed. Especially did we have to deal with the human rights section in its own time after the legalization of the 1994 Convention of Human Rights. It's a long distance, it's not a jump. We don't take the constitution, our core laws, and jump up overnight. That's pretty clear. I just want to reiterate what I said in the past, it's clear that what we're doing on this committee, which has been arranged by the heads of all political groups or their representatives instead - that committee is doing a good job. My feeling is very good about that. I think we're on the right track and we'll respect and respect our national will. That is why the four points exist today, and we speak specifically at the Constitution committee, for they depend solely on the four points that the nation so clearly voted with at its time. So I'm just as optimistic and smiling as I was in my talk before, and it's not a question of whether we're changing, but only when. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u33	Mr. President. Still, I have to thank an apocalyptic man. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's son for bringing this up. I believe it is necessary for us senators to comment on this in the Hall of Congress. By listening to them why. Parliaments who have addressed the discussion can be seen in how different they see changes in the constitution. Clearly, during a council, there are very different opinions about how fast it should be done. It is clear that there are very different ways in which senators look forward to providing significant changes in the Republic's constitution. I am a spokesman for going about this slowly. The Constitution contains the basic laws of the nation, the base of the Republic, and the basis should be closely associated with them. But the Republic's constitution is not supposed to be dead, and I'm in favor of a lot of what has been mentioned, but it's a slow transformation. The Constitution has really been fine for us. A law that many considered to be of little value, because of lack of use, came to life and served its purpose wonderfully when the fifth president of the Republic brought it to mind in connection with the Icesave treaties. Of course, the Constitution is to contain principles on social order; it should be a crisis and a counter word but not filled with verbism on high - height political expectations or emotional patterns of individual politicalism. I'm all for it, and I believe that changes in the Constitution are made in full agreement with all major political organizations in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u34	Mr. President. The nation has decided to give itself a new constitution. It arrived at the 2010 National Conference and proposed a change to the Constitution. She took the same year at the election of a government council and chose her representatives. The country then arrived in 2012 and voted for the bill that came from the Council of Control, saying that they wanted to establish a new constitution on the board of directors' bill. The people have decided that they will give themselves a new constitution. I quote Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, the beloved former president of Iceland, who she gave two years ago by permission of a president: Then, in 2008, the General took a significant step that would lead to the finally fulfillment of the dream of a new constitution. Then began the most comprehensive and democratic work of the constitution that history may record. Pirantics have provided a bill that takes all the work on the basis of a board of governance that took place here in the Generals, creating one bill from which it will be ready for the next election in two years if it is needed, and if Pranians get into the government. That's what we're gonna do. At the same time, we can see an opportunity at the highest level. The prime minister is doing, and especially in an attempt to activate a new way to the common controversies, to get the people at the table to reason on views that the political parties do not agree, to get the people into the reasoning that the people say: This is what we want. In Ireland, this was recently done in a difficult constitution, and it worked well. This has been done hundreds of times around the world, and we have a professor of law at Harvard and a professor of political science at Stanford who have done this in many parts of the world and are willing to help us free of charge. There's opportunities there. I wish to the highest. The prime minister of all the best in her work on a full reexamination and thank her for putting that word in there. [[The president calls.]] I thank her for starting a career that is an opportunity in which I will continue to support her in it. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I'd like you to know that Pirata's bill is ready so that the rest of you who don't want to change and don't want the full review, support the Jakobsdóttir Jacobdót in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. Congress members who participated in this discussion, which certainly came from very different viewpoints. One down. A senator, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, asked about the purpose of this life on earth and the purpose of this constitution. It is reaching as the broader solidarity of the change in constitution that will produce political winds and will last for a long time. Our role as participants in this work is to represent our vision, our visions, our people, and our records, but also to take over them and try to look beyond the realm and to approach the subject that has been called after the Constitution changes in many past years, over the past decade, and it is important that politics demonstrate that they are able to achieve good changes in the constitution. The suggestion that we have laid the foundation for this work meant that all of us have access to the change, but we would also turn to the public. As I said in my earlier talk, I view it as an opportunity for the Icelandic government and the Icelandic government if well done by such efforts in public society. My great goal is that we, as Council, can agree, hopefully all, at least as most of them, the change in the constitution at the end of this terms, which will likely be confirmed during the next terms. My hope is, too, that it can be carried on at that time. With joy, I wanted her to walk faster than I have agreed on my own plan. We just have to see how it's done. I mean, we all have opportunities to do that, if we rely on ourselves, to look at the overall interests of this matter, not only our deepest convictions, but, of course, that we also look at the overall interest, what changes we can achieve as a broader solidarity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u36	A respectable president. I recommend here for the Committee on General and Education Committee on bill to correct the change to restraining order and separation from home, No. 85/2011, with subsequent changes. The Commission has discussed the matter at several meetings and has been contacted by the police in the capital area, Nichole Leigh Einarsdóttir from Iceland's Association of Women of Foreign descent and Elín G.. The committee received reviews from Iceland's Human Rights Office and the Association of Women of Foreign descent in Iceland. The bill is suggested to modify the procedure for the treatment of a restraining order. Thus, there are some differences between treatments involving restraining order and expulsion from home, without perpetuating the rights of the defendant, and with the aim of strengthening the rights of violations through simpler lawsuits, increased efficiency, and further distinctions between insurance and forced management measures. Then treatment for restraining the restraining order is simplified, without changing the physical assessment as to whether the criteria for the application of the measures are met. The importance of improving the treatment required for a restraining order was consistent with the objective of protecting the offender and preventing further violence, while at the same time not being handled by the defendant's rights. At the same time, the bill contributes to more careful management and economic management. In the treatment of the matter, the subject of 1st pars was discussed. the bill that includes the granting of general regulations to the State Attorney for such less measures. In this way, a State Attorney can provide guidance that will help to reduce such measures, including how they can be and how they can be carried out. This contributes to a coordinated operation between police authorities, such as the procedure of the police books on dealing with the defendants or the unfortified defendants' declarations holding themselves back from breaking up and not connecting themselves to the one that the office has been using to the level of less efficient measures. However, the committee was advised to evaluate the price of each case according to the recommendations used in each case. This committee agrees with the above views and agrees with the importance of a general decision being given by the State Attorney General, which will define a reduced amount of resources to ensure a coordinated operation between police services. The committee proposes adjustment of the bill's recording of values so that the date for March 1 instead of January 1, 2019 will be adjusted. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ▪ Instead of the words ◯1. January 15, 2010, at Article 4. arrives: March 1st.◯ Ármannsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Árnadóttir Þóra, Willum Þór Þórsson and Thorddur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir, were absent at the hearing and signed in accordance with 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, an officer on the committee, agreed to this opinion. Under references to the writings of Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Birgir Ármannsson of the Year, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Árnadóttir Errah, Jr., Willum Þórsson, and Thorddur Ævarsdóttir Avvarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for work on the bill and the understatement that we have here. It is very nice to see that both the reviews and treatments of the committee are all very positive and support these changes. It's also nice to present the case with all categories. Although one transporter was missing the bill itself, from Uphold, it all supported, and there was only a mistake in dispensing. But in many ways. Understanding why these changes are necessary may be a challenge. True, they are in many ways a bit technical, but the 2011 law was a good and very important change for the treatment of a restraining order and separation from a home. But then you have to take into account the experience of the law and the implementation and try to remedy the project so that all projects will be as planned at the beginning. The biggest change, possibly, has to be treated with a restraining order and, on the other hand, separation from home will not be exactly the same. Why is this important? Yes, it is important that we not be able to classify these provisions as the same or equally oppressive. Applying a restraining spell on a person who has been violated or subjected to violence, or a disorder of peace, has far less effect than dismissing a person from his home. Not to be approached by someone you don't live with, is somewhere else in this small community of ours, is not as much pressure as not being allowed to live in their home. So this change, to take away these treatments slightly, hopefully will result in a view of a restraining order more as a guarantee than a separation from a home, which it certainly has to be forced. By doing so, I hope that a court order related to a restraining order will be supported and that it won't be so heavy in the course of asking for a restraining order to get approved. Many restraining orders today are passed by the defendant. So if these changes are approved by the defendant, they no longer need to be approved or to go to court. You might think that there are fewer cases than others approved by the defendant than there are. If this bill becomes legal, it will be tested to see if it will change anything, as the alternative will be considerably easier and quicker without a judge's decision. Then there are other changes that are also designed to help solve the problem, make it easier, and also clearer. There is a complaint in the law on less resources, but nothing about who they are or how they should be performed. It is often referred to as a judicial hearing that the use of less effective measures should be done first, without being specified by which, how, or by any means, it will work. So I think, just by ordering on the less sensitive measures, that it could be resolved by the police, because there's a pretty different day between police services, that there's been a slighter way of trying, and in a easier way, it could be shown that they didn't work. I hope that by these general measures, which were addressed specifically at the Committee, and I agree with what is being said, that, of course, it is necessary and must evaluate each case from which methods are used, but not that the same less resources can be valid for any subject, since the situation is very frequent and frequent, and especially when we look at all the new challenges we see because of technology and the new challenges we can see in these matters as well, because of attack, violence, and disorder, through technology. I expect that by the granting of the district attorney general directives for less resources, that it is clear what is required and how it should be carried out. In the handling and preparation of the case, I spoke to several police officials to figure out different options and how the police authorities used these less sensitive measures. These changes, which will hopefully be approved, will only help to reduce the treatment if necessary. But I think it may have to be followed by whether the punishments against these fragments really work. It is so on a judicial hearing that there are a few thousand persons who have to be fined for violations of each restraining order. Apparently, there is no great warning effect in the punishments we have to break a restraining order. I think it is extremely important to consider it in accordance with other legal requirements, and perhaps if we look to the traffic rules, how serious a person can get to talk on the phone, but extremely low tickets for breaking a restraining order, perhaps 20 times. In addition, I believe that it is necessary to examine environmental laws and whether we do not need such regulations in Iceland's penalties. To say that I think and hope that these modifications, if performed, will be used to prevent and protect the offender and prevent further violence by improving the treatment of a restraining order and thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for a job well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u38	Mr. President. My business in pontta is primarily due to bad. A transferer for the bill, which I support my mind. I view it as one of the many steps we must take to cope with various forms of violence. In a sense, this is a family violence, and more often than not, it is sexual. We are trying hard to resist such violence and can handle it successfully. My business is merely celebrating this matter, and I am quite convinced that it will fly through this council. I agree with what you're saying. The traveller for the punishments, the careful consideration of whether these can be followed properly. I wanted to come up first, to stress that this is a good thing that is important for us to accept. I don't expect anything in particular. A senator responds where there is no question about my words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u39	A respectable president. I'll have a chance to add a little more and thank you. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Valdrimsson for this. It's sometimes that way when you look at and experience the law that I did when I was working as a police officer, you think the mistake in the law is clearer, that it's clear what's wrong with them. Then you read the law and wonder: " How can the procedure be the way it is today, the judicial action of the laws here on the table? I repeated in a paper with the bill that it must not be overlooked that there is a disturbance of peace required to obtain a restraining order. It seems often that when I study the judicial action, there are stricter requirements than the law requires - despite the relatively low threshold of the law, which I did not act in those laws. I further repeated this in my report, because a restraining order is to improve the rights of family victims and other victims of violence and persecution, that there is sufficient cause for disturbance of peace. I hope that with these changes, they will be looked especially forward to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with those who have spoken up here and thank you. paritaprevir An Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter for presenting the case. It's a pleasure to see the way this is going. So today I was getting an answer from a justice minister to a question about domestic violence, so it rhymes with this discussion. Hv. A senator speaks of a violation of a restraining order and a low fine, and I'm glad it's being handled better. I understand, from a conversation with law enforcement people, that they are not even interpreted as a violation of a restraining order if texting is being sent, they have to interpret the content. In fact, it is a violation of the restraining device when you are getting a message from the person whose restraining order is placed on you that you do not know what the contents are until you are reading it. So this is a challenge that needs to be dealt with more strongly. I'd also like to agree with the need to take a closer look at acidifications and where those cases are in our system, that it's very necessary. So I refer to the reply of a minister of justice that was delivered today, in the last 868 years, to domestic violence on the table of police. Of course, a number of these matters will resolve without coming to courts or such. Hv. A senator also admitted that more defendants are seeking help. So it is being handled without major intervention, but since they are needed, we do not need to do better and protect such individuals and help those who are also do the same. All of this works for the better lives of these individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u41	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a commission on bill change of law on rights and duties of the state, with subsequent adjustments. As shown in the case of the President, an General and Education Committee is considered. However, several meetings have been discussed by the committee. Then came Sverrir Jónsson and Sara Lind Guðbergsdóttir from the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, Magnús Norðdahl of the Allied Union of Iceland and Hrannar Már Guðmundsson from the Union of Governments and Towns. The committee received reviews from the Reykjavík Civil Society, an emissary office, the Icelandic Human Rights Office, Percontainment, the Association of Women of Foreign descent and Iceland's Business Council. The case had already been presented, and further reports had then been received. I'd like to specifically mention the industry, Iceland's Human Rights Institute, Hólar University, in addition to what's available here. The bill suggests the fourth. 1.mg. Section 6. Relations on the Rights and Duty of the State, No. 70/1996. It says that in order to obtain an order or recruitment, they need an Icelandic citizen's right or citizenship in other countries of the European Economic Area, Member States of the European Free Trade Association or the Faeroe Islands. However, in the case of other foreign citizens, this arrangement may be replaced. Officials and members of the Committee were generally positive about the bill. Its purpose and purpose were shared. You should state that according to 52. g. the Court's legislation on the rights and duties of the government shall be signed under the regulations of these non-aggregatory regulations, as well as their reviews, the Alliance of state and town workers, the League of college and the National Socialist Association of Iceland allows for monitoring and mountaining on behalf of their partners on the issues of conflict that may arise. By obtaining accounts and counseling members at a meeting of the Committee, as well as at its first transfer at the council, the committee views this obligation as being carried out. Since the concerned people do not comment and express themselves contrary to the following bill, it is safe to proceed with the situation. In the treatment of the case now and when the bill was submitted to a Council of 146, the legislature and the 148th legislative Council, the alliances of public employees in accordance with Article 52. the law on the rights and duties of the public employees allows you to submit a review of the case and to attend a meeting of the Committee. The alliance has no comment on the subject of the bill. In view of the above, the committee believes that it is related to the alliance law. The committee concluded that while the terms of the European Civil Rights Act fell from the law, it would still be permitted to set appropriate conditions when advertising a job. The committee insists that there is always a need to look at the nature of such conditions. In this way some jobs may need to be made in order to carry out their ministry in a material way. Otherwise, the bill does not produce a physical change or change in other laws. That is why the Commission concluded that the bill will remain the same. Ármannsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Árnadóttir Þóra, Willum Þór Þórsson and Thorddur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir, were absent at the hearing and signed in accordance with 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this. The whole committee is on the record, and it's a real joy indeed. I want to use this opportunity to thank you. ... ofthegeneralsand the Education Committee, and especially its chairman, huh? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, for paying the street of this matter. It seems to me that there should be a very good convergence here at the council that should be able to resolve it and make a law from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u42	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on an updated vacation agreement between the EFTA and Turkey. The committee has discussed the matter and had its meeting with the State Department of State, Kristinn F. Árnason, Katrín Einarsdóttir, and Davíð Logi Sigurðsson. The proposal consults the Allegorical Council on an updated holiday contract between EFTA and Turkey signed on the south end of June 25, 2018. In 1992, the EFTA and Turkey had a free trade contract. The proposal suggests that the main improvements and changes involved in the update of the contract have been changed largely, the contract is now a service trade, business and sustainable development, and the solving of issues as well as the provision of intellectual rights. There are factors always included in the contracts that EFTA makes today. The report then shows that the terms of human rights, sustainable development and environment are added to the free trade agreement with Turkey. It is in accordance with EFTA foreign policy to validate business agreements with the state, even though parties disagree on other issues, such as On the field of human rights. The procedure has been the same in the other EFTA countries, i.e. that criticism of human rights status has so far not prevented free trade agreements from being made and validated. The United Nations, rather than the EFTA, is viewed as a common form of criticism because of the state of human rights. In addition, there is evidence that free trade between countries can promote reform in democratic and human rights. - This was a significant consideration on the Committee, the importance of repeating the importance of improving human rights in Turkey. Finally, the exports from Iceland to Turkey, mainly sea products, machines, skins and skins, were 2.1 billion. In 2017. The import from Turkey has fluctuated from years to years, depending on whether Turks built ships for the Icelanders in that year. The value of the import has thus shifted from 2.4 billion. 2010 to 24.4 billion in 2017. Besides machines and transportation, various products from Turkey, e.g. materials and food. The export of the service trade to Turkey was 434 billion. K. In 2017 but import 698 million. K. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir writes under the Commission on this in advance towards the state of human rights in Turkey and the need for a comprehensive review of human rights in view when free trade agreements are made for Iceland's hands. The committee suggests that the proposal will be adopted and that it is written by the writer of this magazine, Álga Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndótttir, Logi Bragi Einarsson, Avilärg, K. Gylfadóttir, Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjoffóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorður K. Gunnarsdóttir, who earlier noted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir An avid Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter for the strong management of the Committee in general, with a lot of discipline, but also an understanding that people need to express themselves and discuss matters. I would like to use this opportunity to mention, although it may be unrelated to foreign affairs, that it will be directed to the directors of other committees to include. Senate business, not just government stuff. It depends on a committee and then in the hall, whether or not they will be over. But the least you can do is that presidents work with respect to other members of the committee, as it were. Chairman of the current State Department. Not always that they agree, but it works well. In this case, we spent quite a bit of time going over it, because I remember, from the time the EFTA nation did a vacation deal with Turkey in 1992, it's like, some natural things have been done. And also with regard to development in Turkey. I mean, and it's my opinion that the development of human rights in Turkey didn't get better at the time. They have not seen progress when it comes to an open, clear, free democracy, on the contrary, their situation has become more favorable to democratic powers, to courts, to teachers in Turkey, to government officials as well as to others. That's why I sign in advance on human rights status, but I don't object that the deal will be agreed. I want to make it clear that the very way to get nations out of an incompetent channel is to talk with them, not to isolate them, free trades are, store, service, and free moving. I think that more communication, freedom, contributes to democratic freedom, that human rights will be respected, that nations cannot isolate themselves, kept themselves separate from the world around them, that the seeing eye elsewhere does not see the violations of human rights that are in their landstones. It is not a question of the matter of free trade agreements, although I do not believe that there is a more practical question for the state of the world to be more involved in alliances, whether we discuss the European Union or other countries, it is evident that increased communication in commerce, commerce, also defenses, all such steps have led to greater human rights, freedom, etc. We can see that too - so that I will continue and try to keep the threads here - that since we made the 1992 vacation deal with EFTA, there have been some changes. But as I say, not toward increased human rights, no less. At that time, a sustained chalicar on human rights matters was also set up. What has it done? Has the regular meetings of EFTA - I asked that and others in the Committee - been reviewed during the contract? Has there been any mention of human rights? No, it hasn't been done. It seems to be to atone for everyone. It is only a phrase on human rights matters put in place to protect our desire to promote human rights as much as possible in Turkey or elsewhere. It's just inserted and done little else. Therefore, during the year 2019, I would like to ask if we should not introduce other practices, at least to introduce other practices into free trades, whether at Turkey, the Philippines, or the states that are not necessarily exemplary in government practices today. How can we contribute to this? It has been shown that we have a voice when it comes to speaking for democracy, fighting for democracy and human rights. What, then, can we do about this? Are we giving up on the business interests involved that we cannot do anything else? I'm going to hope that it will be late, that we'll only communicate with other nations because of what business we have at one time, i.e. The import and export of communications with the nations. Because it is a matter of prosperity, prosperity, and prosperity to the nations that democracy should be the most. That is why we should take advantage of every opportunity, and it comes to us in business. In recent years and decades, everyone who has observed developments knows that open markets and freedom contribute to an increase in the prosperity of individuals, people, and businesses. That's why I want to draw it out. I'd like the State Department to have this conversation with us, including... on the committee, how to increase our focus on human rights. We're doing it well in some places, but we could be an aquaculture, or we could be more active in others. We have that voice, and we're supposed to take advantage of it. That's why I want to see only another approach, at least. Discuss, it's at least the first step when it comes to free shop contracts. Besides, I think it's important. This is done on the basis of the EFTA states. We come in a different way, but it may be a business deal of some kind with other countries, is the United States not a reason to discuss certain matters? A friend is the one who says "wow." And it's all right to discuss the human rights issues, whether in the United States or with any of us friends and alliances throughout our history. Is that because we are not going to continue our Western cooperation? No, our cooperation, strengthening our democratic view, strengthens our open communication with one another, with peoples between nations, and especially with decades of history in which we have built peace and prosperity in Europe and the Northern Hemisphere. No one should be afraid of it. Now that we're talking about the United States, I'd like to underscore, because I had a word with the prime minister here yesterday, that one is to consult the committee - and I felt that she wanted it, although it was possible to criticize a foreign minister for not a clear policy in consultation, a little whimpered by the issues of each table. Things I don't think are as important to me as they are. With the emphasis on the human rights element, it is that when we enter such broad contracts that can influence the nation's position, both commercially and less defensively, how we are viewed as a nation, that we are spokesmen of human rights, etc. And it also matters that there is a way of speaking and that the parties are not only within the council but are tried to bring them into the council and have the council all work together under the direction of the foreign committee. It's not just because I have strong confidence in the leaders of the Committee, but I think that the council can do a lot of things when these things come along; shape a contract goal; try to find a common thread that has something to do with the benefit of the Icelandic people in free trade agreements or other contracts, whether they are commercial, protective or otherwise. It's important to me that not just consult, sometimes like a punt, but sometimes a little more. When writing and working on contracts, we must shape our common agreement goals. It was tried at the time, and I pointed to it in the controversial subject of applying for involvement in the European Union. Opinions were divided at the council, but then the government, 2009◯2013, suggested that a foreign committee was brought in, and all members of the Committee were able to present their views, and it was tried to find our common criteria, how the nation's interests were best cared for and cared for in such negotiations. Thus will I that there be more matters to be done, including bargains. In this matter of the update of the holiday contract between EFTA and Turkey, I agree that it will be validated, updated, but I'm asking the Senate and the Foreign Affairs to consider how we can better promote human rights. We should not use the same tactics as 1992, let alone 1952, when making contracts. Let's try to update ourselves on these too. Other than that, the work on the Committee was brilliant, and I'm on top of it with this advance notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for commending the management of the Committee. I just wanted to think about that, of course, things aren't good in Turkey, it's got a lot worse lately, but when you look back in 1992, things have happened, in the long run, evolution is sometimes up and down. This, however, is the first law of human rights in the contract that was not in the earlier agreement, and it may lead and hopefully that human rights can be discussed on an even greater scale. This puts our hope into place for a new time. The government has repeatedly promoted its concerns and critical conduct by the Turkish government, and this is an important addition to the criticism that has existed on Turkish governments over various factors, whether it is media freedom, the independence of courts, or the pursuit of human rights. This adds to a standard of human rights that is not in the first agreement, and hopefully this will contribute to an increasing discussion of human rights in this regard. Besides, it was, like, a cot. A senator came in, a great and good discussion of these matters on the committee, and I hope it will continue. Tomorrow comes the highest. Minister to the Committee to discuss the next meeting of Iceland's Council of Human Rights, and it will be a continuation of this conversation where we criticize and find certain human rights in the world. With this contract, you may be able to discuss human rights in a new field where there is a new arrangement in the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u45	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go less, too. A member and chairman of the Committee felt that there was a wish that a minister would take the time to also review the contract objective of Biffit. I have even. requested because it has not quite been clear what the contract aims for Bgreit are. We have specific information on the committee that we need to review with a minister. I want to point 'em, too. The chairman of the Committee noted that it was also on my part, asking for a minister to review the meeting with Pompeo he had the other day. It matters, especially when business interests are spoken of, but also security interests, as shown in the case of Pompeos, that means something more than just those words. This, of course, would mean increased military activities, including ... becauseof the increased activity of China and Russia here, and these are things we need to consider with a minister, what's in the pipes. It's not to be surprised. Then I'll just tell God if we're going to take these issues more seriously by bringing in the human rights matter and approaching them formally in this contract. We who have been tracking the development of international affairs, such as me and the rest of us. A senator and others, see that there is a traditional procedure for free trade agreements, regarding international communication. What I call after is that we ask: Is it not time for us to stop and approach human rights matters in another way? Can we use our business affairs to put greater pressure on the world's state or as an incentive for a state to take better care of human rights and to be a normal member of the international community as a free democracy? Turkey can do all of this, but evolution in recent years is sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u46	A respectable president. I just want to come up here to introduce you. A senator that will be the occasion for her request tomorrow, and hopefully the meeting will be called shortly. Not only are we going to discuss the human rights session at the Human Rights Council but we will also discuss the meeting of foreign ministers with the U.S. Secretary of State and the Bgret State. Of course, it's on the committee that we have the opportunity to discuss this further, but thank you. A senator for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u47	Mr. President. I'll just throw this cylinder back and say, "Thank you so much for this reaction. I used to talk earlier today about terms and about how important it is for senators to get into the districts, to hear people in different circumstances, to see things differently, and to find different emphasis, and it's a real challenge. In effect, this is also part of the council work, in all these houses, if we look at the big picture, the work that takes place on committees that are extremely important to us as to how we handle matters, for a democracies, the ruse. That is why it is so important to control the committees and organization in this way, including as we are experiencing now on a foreign matter committee, that people can come and express themselves freely and make their point. Naturally, there's Congress here, and there's a lot of it in the council, and of course we feel it. The important thing is that we, the administrative memory - maybe we should start calling the government's side of the board - can make our affairs manifest, that they are scheduled. That, too, matters. Of course, the big movie in foreign affairs is important, and it's a joy to have the highest power. The Minister of Guðlaug took Þór Thor Þórðarson to us, and it's good to have him attend the Committee to review these huge interests that we face in the foreign affairs of the nation whether they relate to Biffit, possibly a new business and security agreement with the United States or human rights. I'd especially like to celebrate and look forward to meeting with the committee in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u48	Mr. President. I discussed Turkey and human rights matters when it was recommended that this vacation business be held at the Assembly Hall, and I intend to use this opportunity to again discuss human rights in Turkey and the democracy that has fallen on its feet. In many respects, I suspect things are more serious, but we are happy to hear about them. I refer to the fact that great imprisonments of those who criticize government officials are being carried out. That's the way to free the media. There are cleansings in the government, the judiciary, the educational system, and widespread measures also against government opposition. All of this is a sign of action that is completely troublesome. So it is especially appropriate to remind you of the quest against the Kuristan, which is simply called in the ordinary language of extreme oppression. Some people use even more serious or larger words on this subject, but I'm not going to do it here. There is also the invasion of Syria, where Turkey has directly invaded a neighboring state. We will be told about the value and benefits of free trade agreements, and much is said about how these agreements may have, on the other hand, on the rulers and on the public side, and even on the government side, how we should deal with them, whether we take, as presented here, the business interests ahead of all other things, or how we manage all of this. As a result, the need for human rights within the requested holiday contract raises the question of how the EFTA countries are supplying criticism of human rights in Turkey is above their heads. Now it can be said that in EFTA, there are small international states and just how serious the Turkish government will be if it comes from there. That raises another question. A human rights committee is to be active on the behalf of EFTA, but as we have heard it, it is little or not active. The question is, is it not time to activate it? I'm not going to reimburse this vacation agreement or how to handle a free trade deal with some state and state, on the other hand, the conditions within the country. It's not easy, but I'll say it. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður of the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir is that we must be very careful whether it's within the Foreign Affairs Committee where I sit or we consult between the minister of state or the government and the committee. We should be very careful that our stand is right and clear every time. I would like to use this opportunity here to encourage the government, especially the Secretary of State, to discuss now whether and in what way Iceland can give clear information about human rights to Turkey under conditions of the past. I also want to use this opportunity to encourage our representatives at the EFTA Committee and at the United Nations Human Rights Council to do our best on this same occasion. I have agreed to join this committee party with considerable doubt, with my tongue in my cheek as they say, but still considered it proper to be there with everyone else. I also want to use this opportunity, as it has been done, to thank the Chairman for holding his strong hand around this work. There are more of those contracts in the lake, e.g. With regard to the Philippines, and we will likely repeat this discussion often on other occasions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u49	Mr. President. I agree with what has shown that free trade between governments can be a key to good relations, understanding between different nations, and even world peace. Now I did not participate in the Committee's work on the discussion and discussion, but since this is a renewal of a contract from 1992, when the situation in Turkey was anything but today, I don't think there is any need to be a new agreement. Turkey is no longer classified as a democracy among political scholars but as a monarchy. Erdogan has been changing the constitution, has increased his power but has lost responsibility. The Lawgiver is no longer allowed to supervise the executive office, and he laid down the office of prime minister, but he now serves both places as president. He has imprisoned journalists, scholars, politicians, dissidents, and Internet flames, along with others. He has been so zealous in imprisoning innocent citizens that today's largest industry in Turkey is the construction of new prisons around the country, just to bring all these people into existence. He's persecuting Kurda. He uses innocent civil violence; 22 peaceful Protestants were killed in 2013. It is implicated in corruption and financial mismanagement. He regularly closes access to the Tyrki Internet. He closes access to Wikipedia, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, and other websites. You can't negotiate with a dictator. These tribunals for painting human rights in the contract are a disgrace. I feel like it's against the law to have clauses inside contracts that are just given the idea of not standing to follow them. I'm going to read from the Commission opinion, with the permission of a president: The report shows that the terms of human rights, sustainable development and environment are added to the free trade deal with Turkey. - And that's supposed to be the big deal. It would be in accordance with EFTA foreign policy to validate business agreements with the state, even though parties disagree on other issues, such as On the field of human rights. The procedure has been the same in the other EFTA countries, i.e. that criticism of human rights status has so far not prevented free trade agreements from being made and validated. The United Nations, rather than the EFTA, is considered to be widely criticized for the state of human rights. It says here in the contracts, in whites and agreements itself, and in EFTA data that these new provisions are not to be stipulated, and they should not be carried out. Then why keep them in the contract? I don't know if there should be some PR thing for the public in these countries that will be forced to participate in free trade agreements with dictators. We should have the courage to apply ourselves in the field of EFTA and reject this vacation contract. Iceland is to pursue independent foreign policy. I remember only two times in which Iceland has practiced independent foreign policy. The first time, when we accepted independence from the Baltic States and later accepted Palestine, we accepted it. Otherwise, whether it is EFTA or the United Nations, we are just following our worldwide association. I know that the EU is not going to let Turkey in the European Union because of the situation in which it exists. It's not a democracy, it's a dictatorial state. Therefore, they are not allowed into the European Union. So why are we going to make a free trade deal with this state, this dictator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u50	Mr. President. I respect my sister's opinions, Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir, in this regard. Just so you know, the Piranians haven't developed a policy in this group, but we've been discussing this. You want us to sign free trade deals with a state that clearly violates human rights, like a dog. A senator was very thorough? What do you say we do free shopping? It's one thing to take the initiative, to start making vacation contracts. But should we cancel free business contracts that are present with such countries? That's different. This discussion continues to take place among Pirates, and we make well - informed decisions. When I look at free trade agreements or some kind of economic pressure or to break up business relations or to use economic pressure to prevent other countries from doing business with any state because of the possible violations that the international community wants to take on, this is usually done against weaker countries. The weak countries are addressed, not the big ones, regardless of their violations. The result is also important. How does this, on the other hand, affect governments so that they behave better, and on the other hand, the people in the country? What we saw in a ten - year economic war against Iraq, under Saddam Hussein, was that it strengthened his control. This made the country's livelihood extremely bad. So we have to look to it. I know one example that it was enough to use some sort of economic pressure or trade as a force in the government's stand for change in government. It's South Africa. It worked there. I don't know any more places. I personally would not take sides in making a vacation deal, breaking up a business relationship, or going into economic pressure against a state unless I knew what its real effects were. Does it make the state of human rights in the land better, or does it even get worse? Until I know, I will not take my stand on that. But as I say, it's still a discussion that's still going on with the Pirates. In view of information and data, we make decisions. Therefore, there is no formal policy yet. But it will come -- like any other course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u51	Mr. President. I recommend the National Committee's Committee's Commission's proposal for a resolution of the economic cooperation between the EFTA and Ecuador. More recently, the committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the State Department of State Department of State, Kristinn F. Árnason, Katrín Einarsdóttir, and Davíð Logi Sigurðsson. This suggests that the Allied Council is looking for permission to validate the requested holiday contract between the EFTA and Ecuador signed on the Sheep Week 25 June 2018. The proposal suggests that the Ecuadorian holiday treaties include mutual delinquency and a reduction in industrial products, marine products, and the rest of the agricultural and uninhabited agricultural products. Thus, customs on all sea products and industrial products exported from here to Ecuador will fall from the implementation of the contract or during the lead-in period. The same is true of the major agricultural products produced here in the country for export. The report then shows that the export from Iceland to Ecuador was small and studied less than 30 million. K. in 2018. These include only the export of industrial products. Ecuador's import has also been small but has increased over the past few years to some 600 million. K. In 2017. Most of this is the import of fruit and other foods. I specifically comment on the fact that there are mainly bananas in this situation. With mutual delinquency and a reduction of customs, the contract provides the basis for the growing trade between countries. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the committee, Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, a traveling Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir, Brondótti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einarsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjoffótttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir. At this point, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about Ecuador, and the reason is not complicated. It's a country I've got very strong nerves for. It's a country that's about ... twice and a half times Iceland. Pretty small country. There are about 15 million people there, and it's unusual in South America, at least in some countries, that there's a majority of them. The land is in the middle, there are no seasons. There is no problem with the clock as we do with it, there is 12 hours light and 12 hours of darkness. It is relatively political stability, or it has been in the last 20 years or more, in the country. Human rights are not perfect. There's a corruption. But this situation is much better than in many other South American countries. The country is very rich with resources. These include metals and various minerals, but especially oil, is one of the major exports of the country. It is full of water, a very fruitful land, a good ground for farming, and also a global heat. Many countries have been using resources, and especially China, which has entered there with considerable weight, as well as in many other places. What is special, and maybe our obligation, outside the earth's heat, is that there are many volcanoes in Ecuador, including volcanic eruptions. There are even volcanic eruptions going on every year. There are powerful earthquakes, and the identity is based on the fact that these plates, large polar plates, are converging, not disintegrating, as in this country. It is a characteristic of all the geologic functions involved. I have before I sat down at the General Assembly trying to establish some development team between Ecuador and Iceland. I'm not going to do anything about it, but I think that, in the interest of this vacation agreement, some of the more communication, trade, cultural interaction, and development cooperation are involved. Then the dust can be dusted from what has been discussed before, i.e. energy, geothermal work, e.g., even water activation, although we are now no special experts. It is a cooperation in the field of natural or earth's tears. Then I mean earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. And there are also opportunities to use all four schools here in Iceland that are associated with the United Nations, which are the Equal Court, the Fishing School, and the Land - healing School, and then the Pacific School. It is often said that in such cases a small kingdom should be tailored for growth. that developing cooperation and there is an excellent opportunity for it. But we might also learn from Ecuador because there are many ways in which our environment is a good one, especially when it comes to national parks and peaceful areas. There are 11 national parks in Ecuador, including Galapagos, a world - famous place, as everyone knows. There the Ecuadorians have tried to pursue a specific waste management program on the limits of endurance. In fact, this is true of more of their territory. There are also 24 big peace - declared areas in the country. Likely, the Ecuadorians could teach us something else about the planning and management of such areas, even though that is not the case. I'll finish this, Mr. President. It was a little bit of information on this land that many Icelanders do not know, but quite a few have traveled there and what has been special about Ecuador and Iceland, a number of trade students have been there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u52	A respectable president. The Parliamentary resolution of this proposal will confirm the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 158/2018, July 6, 2018, of the change in XVII. Annex (Implementation rights) to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and to enter the contract of the Council Regulation and Council of 2017/1128 from June 14, 2017, on the cross-border transport of network materials. Protocol No. 2017/1128 aims to remove barriers that consumers can enjoy services from subscribers or that they can access materials they have previously purchased or rented in their own country when they travel to other countries within the EEA. The rules are therefore specifically designed to ensure cross-border transport. Therefore, consumers can have plenty of material, such as films, sports events, music, electronic books, and video games that they have legalized in their home country. The rules thus provide services for such services, for they will be able to extend their service across borders without having to obtain permission in many areas. At the present time, there is a set license system for justice parties and a set of service terms that prevent consumers from getting access to this service when they leave the room. A respectable president. The decision calls for a change of law in this country. It is proposed that the Ministry of Education and Culture submits the legislation on the transport of Internet-based irreversibly across the interior markets of the current legislation panel. Monitoring of the procedure is expected to be in the hands of the Nite Owl lab. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u53	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 92/2018, which recommend the inclusion of the European Parliament's Directive and the 2010/78/EU Council into the EEA Convention. Since there was no improvement in the above, a decision was made by the European Commission on a administrative notice on the part of Iceland. In 2010, the EU was adopted to establish a new European monitoring system for financial markets. The monitoring system is aimed at protecting the interests of the public and the financial market by promoting the stability and health of the financial system on the internal market of the EEA. Three institutions were set up to monitor financial activities in the internal market. The 2010/78/ESB Directive, referred to as Omnibus I, was adopted with the founding regulations and therefore changed the current EU chemical legislation in a number of areas to reflect the new surveillance environment. The directive is a kind of museum law. This will make changes in specific EU financial markets, allowing access to the EU monitoring agencies where appropriate. After an agreement between the EU and the EFTA countries within the EEA on adaptation of the Regulation for the establishment of the three monitoring strains in accordance with the two supporting EEA Convention, they were implemented in the EEA Convention in the fall of 2016. These regulations were subsequently introduced into Icelandic rights by law No. 24/2017, on a European financial surveillance system. Adjustments to the decision made by the joint EEA Committee on uptake of Omnibus I in the EEA Convention are consistent with adjustments associated with the implementation of the Regulation on the three EES Convention. A respectable president. The decision needs to be made on the country's behalf to determine the role of the three institutions of surveillance to the European Commission in relevant legislation. The aim is to place economic and economic ministers on the coming fall for the introduction of the section of the Directive that falls under the economic and economic sectors. Then, at the World Council for the Last Year's Council, it was adopted to act on money fraud and terrorist funding, which included the implementation of specific regulations against money thefts. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u54	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of authority for the government to validate for Iceland on the free trade between the EFTA and the Philippines signed on April 28, 2016. The proposal of this material was previously made at a 146th legion but could not be fulfilled, thus being reassigned. EFTA and the Philippines began a debate over the construction of a vacation contract in March 2015 and ended in February 2016. The contract is a form of mutual delinquency and a reduction in industrial products, marine products, and theindustrial agricultural products. In this way, customs on most marine products and industrial products exported from Iceland to the Philippines will fall, as well as on the main agricultural products produced here in the United States for export. The treaty will therefore improve the competitiveness of Icelandic immigrants who export their goods to the Philippines. The contract is also part of the common project of EFTA to improve the market access of their enterprises to market markets around the world using free trade agreements. The EFTA countries have combined 29 such agreements with 40 different states or states. The Parliamentary arrangement explains the main components of the free trade agreement. It tells us that the contract includes the two contracts. the provision of trade, trade of services, investments, protection of mental rights, public shopping, competitive business, and sustainable development. The export of goods from Iceland to the Philippines has been small, or in the range of 30 to 100 million dollars. every year. This has primarily been the export of salmon, macroil, and equipment, especially the scale and equipment of soils. To a considerable extent, Europeans have sold their services and knowledge for research and use in the Philippines. In recent years, imports from the Philippines have studied some 3,500 million dollars. every year. With mutual delinquency and a reduction of customs, the contract provides the basis for the growing trade between countries. A respectable president. During discussions on the proposal at the council and on the National Affairs Committee at 146, the Court's Committee for Human Rights was well discussed in the Philippines, following the introduction of Rodrigo Duterte to the office of the president of the United States in June 2016. It should be noted that in the preamble of the contract, the commitment of the Treaty is entitled to support democracy and human rights. At the same time, the holiday agreements are made up of a joint committee of the countries, and although this committee is primarily designed to discuss the implementation of the Convention, it is also possible to adopt human rights issues at that point. In this regard, the United Nations Council of Human Rights, including the United Nations, has, in the past few years, upheld criticism of the Philippines government. when the Philippines came to the fore in 2017. So, in September 2017, it was noticed that Iceland spoke in the name of 39 countries, making clear criticism of the local authorities. I also addressed the Philippines in my address at the Council of Human Rights in February 2018 and repeated that the Philippines had to agree on keeping in mind the UN secretary - generals' surveillance visits. I repeated this at a two - side meeting with Secretary of State of the Philippines on that occasion. As opposed to the case of EFTA, it is believed that in general the position of human rights at the UN institutions will be held. In addition, there is evidence that free trade between countries can promote reform in democratic and human rights. Finally, the other EFTA countries must have validated the holiday contract as well as the Philippines. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to a further discussion. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u55	A respectable president. Mostly, I want to talk about human rights in the Philippines, but first I want to express my joy at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs, as he mentioned, has used every opportunity to criticize the situation in that country. It is something the Icelandic rulers should do with such a kingdom. We should tell them to sin when there is reason to do so. I'd like to discuss the forewords of the holiday contracts that are standard contracts that the EFTA countries do these days, where parties will issue their commitments to democracy, rights, human rights and freedom of people. I am deeply worried about these words, that they are, as mentioned earlier in the discussion of the treaty with Turkey, only atoning, they serve no purpose other than to make us concerned about the situation in these states better. I think so, for example. is reflected in that when it comes to the business of these agreements, the parties establish a common committee of EFTA and Filipino, which can refer to problems in the formality, but that statement is only under the personal laws of the agreement, only accept the free trade rather than the premiums that must be fundamental to this agreement. Otherwise, what do we have to do with those words if they have no meaning? Another concern is that this contract was completed before the situation changed in the Philippines. It was signed in April 2016, but Duterte took over as president in June of the same year. It should have set off such warning bells that the EFTA nations should have sat down and asked themselves if this agreement was a big deal, if the original words didn't call aside the deal at least while death squads marched through the Philippines, and killed them. Political opposers, however, also went very hard on the streets of Manilla. EFTA intolerance may not be strange because EFTA office has no regard for these matters; there is no party to determine whether the evolution of human rights is in the right or the wrong direction at any given time. It is not an objective measure to determine whether this preposition of free trade agreements between the EFTA states and any state to raise a case at any given time. The terms of the agreements that have to do with money are likely different. There, I would keep something clear and efficient. There may now be a reflection of priorities that are all too common in international relations, the interests of rich people have strong cause, but human rights are all weaker, and here they are, in the forewords rather than in their own legal requirements. Here's where the top end went. Minister to conduct Iceland at the UN Human Rights Council, where we took our place at the exact time since the contract with the Philippines was signed. There is another change in position that I don't think is being taken lightly. How can we be sure that when Iceland was taking possession of the United Nations Human Rights Council, it was considered as one of the reasons why we had so strongly considered ourselves to be so important - when we were right at the same time to the authorities of the yellow market agreement? And what about our position with a representative of the United Nations Child - Rights Committee, where we sat last year likewise? It is fate's gray face that this proposal for Congress was made in the same week and learned that the lower division of the Filipino council had agreed to reduce the criminal age from 15 years to 12. The world's rights of children were not impressed. And we, as one of the states that we believe to be in the advance force for rights and rights of children, should make our foot strong. One of those places where we can do it is a deal like this. Although the interests are low, the message here is spoken of as 30 to 100 million a year in the export to the Philippines and for 300◯500 million in import, it is clear that we are still one nation's size. We are one state with the same status in the international field and a far greater kingdom and are to avail ourselves of that position, the voice that we can have as strong as the voice of any larger nation. This has been discussed today with other vacation agreements that there are various gray areas, let's say. Where are we gonna pull a line into the sand and where aren't we? For example, we were dealing with a deal between EFTA and Turkey, in which the situation is not particularly good, but that it is easy to say that the agreement falls on a gray area where there is a renewal of an existing contract. But here we are talking about a brand-new deal with a state that, when the ink was just dryed out of the contract, began to become just a chronic violation of human rights. This deal isn't in any gray area. If we're ever going to pull a line in the sand, here it is. Here we have the opportunity to show that Iceland is on the record of the human rights and rights of children, even though there are several million.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u56	Mr. President. I can agree with most of the individuals mentioned in the language of the day. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Or I could repeat my talk I gave you about a vacation contract with Turkey. I'm not gonna do that. I agree, however, that this is, in my opinion, even worse because it's a new deal. We're just making a deal with the Philippines in a vacation store. We're not renewing the deal that was there. We're about to negotiate with a tyrant who uses novel methods for both law enforcement and drug treatment, very practical and terrible. I am a spokesman for free business, and I think it contributes to increased communication that is of the good, understanding between different nations and may even contribute to the peace of the world. But Iceland's unique status in the international community is constantly being ignored. I think we should take advantage of that special situation. We should have applied ourselves to the fact that this agreement would not be made in the light of circumstances in the Philippines, instead of simply following along like sheep. Let us use this special position and take a clear stand on human rights. No one's talking about business pressure. I'm just pointing out that we should not negotiate with a tyrant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u57	A respectable president. We're here to validate the EFTA Free Trade Convention with the Philippines. The case is as we all know. It has been recommended several times, and this has already been discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee but not made it through the council. I mean, I'm very into international business and I'm the least responsible for this sort of business. I simply believe that such transactions increase communication between nations and in terms of both sides. Now I'm not talking about crowns or money in that relationship, but it's clear that the fine bargain that is recommended here does not necessarily increase the benefit of private people who may be involved in business with the Philippines. But I think such trade increases communication between the states and gives them additional opportunities to communicate with the international community and to promote what is available in the Philippines. A respectable president. It was spoken of in a talk earlier to stand up for the human rights and rights of children, and I certainly do. The discussion of this vacation contract has lasted for a long time. By the time the contract process began, Duterte had not taken over as mentioned. It's been quite a while since this case was first taken out, and we still haven't validated this deal. I can't see that this situation has reduced something, should we say, the arrogance and the violence of Dutertes. I am concerned that we would say no to validating the contract would have no effect on the government that exists there. On the other hand, I agree that we should use every opportunity to speak for human rights and condemn human rights violations. It has the highest. Secretary of state, please. I think we should go even further on that subject at the very scene of EFTA. They've been talking about it before. The Foreign Affairs Committee, when discussing other vacation agreements - but it was recommended for committees to consider them before - whether the surveillance of EFTA and the Council Committee related to EFTA and the EEA Convention could be more consistent and more discussed with the importance of human rights being honored in the countries where the EFTA countries are making agreements. I believe that opening up conversation and opening up communication between countries is more likely to protect the people of the Philippines than we here at council say, "No, book a line in the sand, and say no on the validation of this agreement. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. First, I want to say that I understand why. Congress officials are concerned about human rights in the Philippines and in other lands where human rights are rampant. Because of the discussion, I've been following the discussion today, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that it has never occurred before that the Icelandic Minister of Human Rights addressed the Council of Human Rights until the introduction, has never happened before. Similarly, it has never been before for us to be seated on the Council of Human Rights. There was a solidarity in the group we're in for us to go in there. I want to believe that it was because of our conduct when it comes to human rights. Anyway, I don't feel comfortable talking about it - and I'm not saying that. The members of the council here have spoken in this way. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, took special note of this and thanked him for the progress. That is a long way from our failure to act in behalf of human rights and not allow our voice to be heard in behalf of human rights. That's a long way from doing it. On the contrary, I think it may be safe to say that the reason for our solidarity to be achieved within our national group is that we're going in there by the way we've used ourselves in this regard, including. With the Philippines. Now it is that the representative of the Human Rights Watch - in English, respectable President Human Rights Watch - specifically noted that it would have had a positive effect on human rights in the Philippines, the way Iceland worked on the United Nations Human Rights Council. That was their word. Indeed, I have received criticism from the Philippines government, like the Saudi Arabia government, for instance, of how we have exercised ourselves there. I think it's good when we get that kind of criticism. In the field of EFTA, we have even. helped us to see that gender equality is taken into the picture when it comes to free trade agreements. We are not quite there to see it, but we do not steer and do not control EFTA alone. But we have kept our eyes completely awake when it comes to this case. We've been completely awake. No one can say otherwise. If we are going to do so, as some have said here, we will not negotiate free trade agreements when we are persecuted by individual human governments in human affairs, this is a fundamental change from what we have done for decades. I want to draw attention to the fact that at that time when we made a vacation deal with China, we agreed. The Department of Foreign Affairs, then, that for us to advance progress in the field of human rights and employment, it would be more important to deal with a state rather than isolate oneself in our dealings with it and to rule it out. I suppose the same approach was made when they made a vacation agreement with Saudi Arabia and other states at the Persian Gulf in May 2012 and in Colombia in May 2014, for example. Is this to be changed basically as our policy, no matter how governments have been put together? Contracts with China and Saudi Arabia were made at the time of the left government, which was called the left control to the left. I can only see that this is the exact same approach, because some senators want to walk in the European Union, and the European Union already has to go to free trade agreements. I think it makes more sense for us to talk about it, as we do at night. State Department tomorrow, how we can use our voice, e.g. The Council of Human Rights. We're going to go over it in particular tomorrow. If foreign people are to care for these matters, it seems important to discuss how we can make the best use of them in order to do good. And, indeed, we are to uphold the views we have made when it comes to free trade agreements and the international organization we are in. But if we're going to make a change, and we don't make such agreements if we don't meet the criteria of state or state law that we give ourselves, or the values we hold to when it comes to human rights, democracy, justice, and so forth, we're talking about a very great change, which I wouldn't think would have a good effect, including a good influence. on human rights matters in the world. If we're going that way, we won't be able to say "A," we'll have to say "B" and "C." It has to be said when you leave, e.g. Unfortunately, the EU free trade agreements for EFTA, which in many respects are similar to the EU free trade agreements, have many appeals in terms of human rights in the countries with which we own free trade agreements. I think for a country like Iceland it's important that we try to be consistent with ourselves in foreign affairs. Then we must look to these agreements too, not only when it is being updated but also with those countries we are dealing with now and having a vacation store with now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u59	President. I'd like to ask the Minister about two things. He said that we need to be consistent with ourselves as a kingdom, and I think that's important. That's why I find it a little difficult to get it to be consistent with the facts, as the minister said just before, that Iceland's conduct with the Philippines made a big difference in our bringing up a state as a state into the UN Human Rights Council, but then there's some conflict in saying that, at the same time, we might put aside a free trade deal with that state while the civil rights are indisputed as they are today. You see, I think that if we say "A," we're gonna do "B." The way we treat the Philippines made a big difference that we get into the Human Rights Council. Then there is the big question: If there is no bite in it, why do we have this law in the foreword of bargains? We've already said A, so I've used it again, as the Minister came in, we've made a commitment to support democracy, rights and human rights, and then we must tell B, which is, when democracy and human rights are completely pushed off the board before the contract is signed, then the deal can just wait for them to come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u60	A respectable president. So we'll go over it again. I don't know if it made a difference, i.e. progress, but I think that's one reason why we were joined together. I think the main reason was our general conduct at the Council of Human Rights, I suppose. But I was referring to the fact that up to now, no matter what governments have been, no matter how they have been combined and of which categories, it is in accordance with the wisdom of the EFTA states, which are Norway, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein, that men have made free trade agreements even though the situation in the relevant human rights states was not as we would like to see them. If we are going to change that direction, we must reevaluate our role in EFTA. One thing is certain that we cannot walk in the EU. Someone would say that we would also need to deal more strongly with a situation in the EEA, a situation that we don't like with our friends in the European Union. Because if we agree that we are going to do what we can to be consistent, we cannot say: We are not going to make a vacation deal with this state of human rights but are going to continue with the vacation agreement that we already have in countries where there is even much greater and worse progress to break human rights. It just tells itself. That's what I'm here to say. Sadly, the world's countries are not the same, and government is the way it is, but not the way we want it to be. I'm saying that no one can claim that we have not been using the voice of Iceland on an international scale to fight for human rights. But in the same way, we, along with other EFTA countries and European countries, have had this policy when it comes to free trade. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u61	President. Yes, older contracts can likely be considered and discussed whether the situation is good enough or not. It's just a whole different discussion. This is a new agreement with a state that is all over the issue of human rights. There are lots of gray areas, but this isn't one of them. There's only an ironic example of a state that's treading human rights every day. That there is some reversal of policy that the state of human rights has some bearing on how we negotiate and where we don't - how can we stand if we have nothing to do with these human rights contracts? Don't you think that one's gonna make a difference? It may be a little hard to appreciate because we're not keeping track of these matters. EFTA does not take special care of this part of the contracts under the organization. Perhaps it would be informative to hear from the minister how he envisions to strengthen these monasteries, this appeal to our support of democracy and human rights in the treaties. Or whether this robe should go out only if it is an empty word and has nothing to do with government policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u62	A respectable president. I like it. A senator makes my comment somewhat freely. I got it. I got it. A senator, because I know that he can familiarize himself with matters and has often done so and brought in a good opportunity to study the position of human rights in the countries we are now dealing with free trade agreements by EFTA, and even ourselves. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator concluded that many countries do not have gray areas, unfortunately, no gray areas, we are talking about carbon screens. The putting of a clause that is fresh and relatively new is in my opinion of good because it's important to take up these matters everywhere. The institutions that monitor this are mainly the members of the United Nations organization, which is a new, more dignified president, that we are applying ourselves, and in particular, I went over the Human Rights Council. It's new. It hasn't been done before. We've never been on the Human Rights Council before. We've never treated ourselves with these things before. But if we're going the way I've been going over-- I've referred to the committee when we were making vacation deals with China, and I suppose, I haven't considered the committee when we were making the deal with Saudi Arabia, for example, that there was exactly the same approach. I am referring to the neighbors that we compare with the European countries. It's perfectly clear. We've done so in a more efficient, more organized way, but at the same time, I believe that a better way to achieve human rights is to communicate like that. in the business field. Because business is not just a trade of money and goods and services. There is communication between people as well. There is a much greater chance that people will understand, learn from one another, and we will be more likely to be subject to the democratic powers in those countries if we have such dealings but not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u63	President wants to ask the highest. The minister of foreign affairs apologizes for repeatedly misconstruing his father's name, unable to explain it. Maybe I haven't seen a minister for so long, or I'm confused with him and other famous soccer players, Willum Þór Thor Thorsson. [[Just got to know him.]] That may be so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u64	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the change of various laws to the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2015/1794, which includes changes in five older European directives already implemented in national legislation. The bill was made up at the Department of Social Affairs, having consulted with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, with representatives from the National Socialist Association of Iceland, a partner of ship leaders, firms in the Marine Railways, the Marine Union, and the Council of Business and Service. In addition, the bill was placed in an open discussion process on the Board of Directors. The objective of the earlier directive and hence the bill is that passengers can fully apply their right to fair and righteous work conditions as well as their right to information sharing and consultation. The directive's directive stipulates the importance of setting an integrated law frame in order to make the water more competitive. In this regard, the directive issued a number of advisable older directives that led to different treatments of the various Member States in the same profession. The implementation of the directive in Iceland requires that changes be made to four layers, i.e. Commission legislation on the European Commission, EIC information and consultation legislation, group information and law on the rights of employees to partners. In terms of laws relating to European collaboration in companies, the laws of a new paragraph require that representatives of a special agreement and co-work board member of the ship's crew be given in more detail the right to participate in the meetings of the council. The law then requires that when possible, such meetings should be organized so that it helps the participation of representatives and vice - workers who are members of the crew of ships. It is assumed that in cases where representatives of the crew of a ship cannot attend a meeting, they should seek to use information and communication technology. In this connection, I would especially like to draw attention to the current European Community legislation on enterprises which have at least one member of the European Community. 1,000 employees. Remember the changes the bill assumes in that law, since most of the country is likely to have only to a minor extent. In terms of information and agreements in companies as well as the work eligibility legislation on business exchanges, companies need to comply with the laws of laws that require that the laws not apply to sea ships and thus expand their set of values so that they also apply to ocean ship crews. In addition to the implementation of the following directives, a written announcement to the labour agency should also be issued on the basis of groups resolutions like those of the above, as well as on the terms required to be added that the employer should be sent to the labour agency in case the proposed reports are relevant to a ship ship crew member. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to state that the legislation of the bill is not expected to affect government administration or that it will lead to financial expenses. Then I suggest that the bill will be after this discussion points to why. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u65	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the conversion of collection laws, No. 95/2008, with subsequent changes, on the departure of reference, from the General and Education Committee. In Comb 4. Is It Wrong to Tell Others? No. 95/2008, it is discussed with us the grant of collections. A deposit has been granted based on an application by a person according to the b-joint 1.mg. has an unspotted reputation, as is reserved for an election at the Council, such as 5. track No. 24/2000, for the election to the Generals. We agreed to a law on changing a few laws because of a delinquency decision, No. 141/2018, refused to withdraw reference to Article 5. Is it a law to vote for the U.S. Council, No. 24/2000, b-join 1 mg. Section 4. Summoning layer. The law made the change in the proposed regulations of the collection law that were appropriate for a reputation was ◯ an unscrupulous reputation to be replaced by an unscrupulous record. But afterward there was a reference to the 5th paragraph. Act of the election for the Generals. However, it contains a definition of an unscrupulous reputation. The need to respond to these problems is not to be ignored, so it is recommended that the bill dismissal of references to Article 5. a law of elections for the Generals will no longer apply.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u66	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for Congress to conclude that the State will have the Land Phone House on the East Coast. The suggestion is expressed in this way: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from promoting the State's possession of the Eastern Land Phone House by looking for contracts for the State of the House, but otherwise by starting preparations for the State to take possession of the section of the Viking Churchyard. The proposal is to present a verbal report on action on the current spring council by a minister of the General. The person standing here is one of four carriers at the conclusion. There is no question that this is a very important matter. No one here has missed the fact that much construction is being done here, stone blocks from the House of Congress. Mr. President. The news from last night, that the Minja Institute has fallen from the immediate pacification of the eastern Viking cemetery, will not change the need for this council-sense proposal. If anyone thinks that an agreement, to add an introduction to the previously proposed hotel drawing, will solve the situation under consideration. All this agreement adds to the situation we are considering is that it is now possible to expect an even more rapid order of the guest hotel past the General Assembly Hall house with a suitcase whistle. With the permission of the President, I would like to quote the words of Helgi Helgadöldell, who is one of those who signed a statement challenging the Minister of Education to confirm the Þorláksson pacification of the Minja Agency and to say that he is a bad outcome. ▪ Man cannot see that mina's story is at the front of the park. There's no reason to leave the eastern part behind. Of course, all Viking churches are to be at peace. The eastern part is no more important than the west side. There's obvious fallacy and inconsistencies in this. So the situation is still in the same place as before. It is the key to the fact that there is no foundation for the ancient cemetery of Smoking. That's the point, if someone has missed it. It stands to build a luxury hotel over a cemetery of 30 generations of Smoke. The latest tombs were taken in the last 19th century. Thus, the matter is serious in many ways. Why would that be? In effect, the evidence that this suggestion is being made is mostly two, in my opinion. First, the reasons turn to the Allied Council and to disrupt the peace of the legislation. Another reason, but maybe the most important, is immunity to cemeteries. Third, transport safety concerns risk - related activities. Finally, it is simply the appearance and shadowing of the East, in the center of the capital. Other speakers, according to Article 36. The constitution, which shows that its peace and freedom are not to be disturbed. Buildings high above and within reach from the windows of the nation's legislatures are not to rise. It may be reasoned that the traffic of the service and supplyers and the planned hotel at the Land Phone Center, as well as the group vehicle, and the traffic of tourists will be so great that it should be so close to the Assembly Hall that the peace of the General Assembly, and it should not be taken lightly. I suppose a search is that a legislature with so narrow a church hall as here will be if a planned building is allowed to rise unchanged. Also, the arrival of a receiver, such as a firefighter, cannot be seen to be fully assured in the tightness there will be. Mr. President. With the formation of planned buildings in the western corner of the East, the afternoon sun at a large part of this popular place of incense will be history. Finally, Mr. President, I'm going to discuss what matters most to me, the graveway. It has been an unbreakable part of the covenant of generations to defend the earthly remains of their ancestors. That was the first priority in the Western Islands after the 1973 Homey Island, clearing the cemetery from a different one. A man walked under a man's hand to shovel an indiscretion amount from there. Thus, the Western eyes and all their helpers showed the respect they deserve in the burial places of ancient generations, and today the island cemetery bears this beautiful testimony. This has also been done in many parts of the country, where our ancestors'graves lie along, not by humans, but by nature. At Aza Church in 1897, 1897, 1897, the burial continued until the turn of 1900, or a little later, than the last tomb taken in the eastmost part of the Viking Church of the East. But unlike humans, there is a difference. In the Åsa Church Park in Skaftyrungu, the cemetery has been able to stand on the trails of lakes that have long been well built off the banks near the graves of old Thomsons. There, firewater flows by and grows on occasion during the regular Skaft Rivers. On the Ásum, the riverbed was loaded with a tray defense, and so far it has been very well maintained. Such respect, Mr. President, of whom I have mentioned, is obliging us to show the cemeteries of our ancestors. Under planned buildings was the eastmost part of the old Viking cemetery. In recent decades, as shown in a report on this, a number of meeting bones and well - versed coffins are allowed by the inhabitants of Reykjavík, who have come up in the fields of land. Mr. President. We are under obligation to defend our ancestors'common grave, so I hope that this case will receive a clear way through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I have a few questions for what? A senator. First, I ask: "Is this the cost of transportation? Of course, it's clear that when land is taken possession after heavy investments and employment, it will cost the state a lot, possibly tens of billions, and I wonder what priorities are involved. The senators are in this context. I also wondered: " I was wrong when a Viking churchyard was officially deposed in 1838. It is also so, since a senator spoke of the effects of traffic in this area and around the councilhouse, driving a group car on this street below is forbidden, if I recall correctly, so that we will certainly not feel a change there. Also, I would like to mention that I was looking at Reykjavík's shared organization, and that is exactly what this shadow picture is. A senator said that this would ruin the afternoon sun here on the Eastfield and more. But it seems to me that the disorganization system is wrong, since it was assessed as having no effect on the afternoon sun or any other effect, shadow formation would be very little or no. I hope that the senator can answer my questions about the cost and whether this is a priority. Senators. Then maybe I'll come back to another part of the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u68	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking a senator for these questions. The proposal assumes, in order to be informed, that the minister is moving through this report this spring. If this suggestion is realized, the secretary of finance is expected to report the matter in the spring meeting so that any cost, if any, would soon be identified by buying this house. It could also be used by the Generals. Then we can save the building of a new building estimated to be inhabited on the west side of the Assembly Hall, using this building rather so that we could save even at the end of the day. In her comments about shadow formation, I let myself say that there were parking lots before and if it's to be built where the parking lot was then, of course, there's a shadow of that house. It's going west, and the evening sun is usually there. There must be some shade on the east side. I'm not going through the dark like this, but I'm sure he'll be one of the house that stands up where there used to be parking lots. They have not produced much shadow formation. Regarding the traffic impact, it is expected that the entrance of this hotel, as agreed to change it, would be closer to the International Assembly Hall. I can picture myself, and all the Vives envision the number of tourists in the area near the General Assembly Hall, even straight ahead of it, and their tails past. I can totally see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. On the Internet, there are tremendously good pictures of the plans and how a shadowcast affects the area around you. There's little or nothing in those pictures. I encourage people to learn about it. I'd like to come back to see that there's a similar operation somewhere else around the council and even closer to the House of Congress than the Land Phone Center. Of course, we can mention the activities of the hotel here next door and the activities of Clabar. I wondered, " Should I take possession of the Hotel City, Clacobar, School Bridge, or other similar activities near the Assembly Hall? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u70	Mr. President. I want to thank you again. A senator for the questions. I must say in my amazement that the members of the Independence Party come up here in a public chair and intend to protect themselves from the construction of the cemeterys of the Smokers. Before I got scared, I just want to say what. A senator. To park a smoking cemetery in which the last decade of the 19th century was buried under a luxury hotel, I find it ridiculous. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should rather support our suggestion. And wondering whether a shadow is a little shadow or something makes me think there's something else. The hotel goes further into church street than before and will form a shadow. How much he's going to be, I'm not going to freak out. But when we put on the graves of our ancestors under hotel buildings, I would now have thought that the Independence Party was the first group that would support preventing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u71	Mr. President. A statement by the Ministry of Education and Culture, dated February 18th and published on the Ministry's Web site has had a crisis. In view of this, it is not to see that a minister has actually made any special decision in this matter - despite the fact that such a decision was offered by some sound band - but, rather, the very fact that the Minja Institute has agreed to fall away and withdraw, as it is called, his peace-declaring motion because it was delivered to some paper from an executive. From this report, or the ministry's announcement, it is that thanks to this executive, a Viking park, as it is said, will receive the honor that he has as one of the nation's greatest monuments. What is the real decision here? It is simply moving the entrance of the hotel closer to the House of Congress, apparently without any consultation in this regard. According to Helgi Þorláksson of the National TV Web site, the conclusion to drop from the expansion of the park's peace-lit area is bad. Like what? paritaprevir Hjaltason Þorláksson in his earlier speech is one of those who sign a statement that challenged the Ministry of Education to confirm the instant peace of the Minjah Institute. Further, with the permission of the president, this requested website is held by Professor Þorláksson: ▪ Man cannot see that mina's story is at the front of the park. We felt that there was no reason to leave the eastern part behind. Of course, the entire Viking cemetery is to be at peace. The eastern part is no more omercier or less remarkable than the western part. And then the west side is hammered so much. There are clear inconsistencies and inconsistencies in this situation. The Sheriff's Garden, called a Viking Garden, was at peace. This was done on January 8, and it was a victory for those who have promoted historical views regarding these things and cultural views. The Minjah Institute focused on the introduction of a hotel from the Sheriff's Park, based on the view that the Family Park should be, not a hotel courtyard, but a previous history and memory. Now, not only does the hotel get one entrance on the west side but it's hard to see that history and memory can be in front of the park. On the basis of that conclusion, on January 8 of last January, the peacemaking plans in the eastern part have fallen from those who were offered the instant pacification. It's hard to understand, Mr. President, that history in the west side of the park is glorified and active as a holy place, as it was said, but hotel building allowed in the east. To accomplish this, 22 complete chests with intact skeletons had to be moved away. Likely there were some 35 bones, in the opinion of an archaeologist. Such a relationship with a cemetery is a natural scandal. The report that the subject is a health study remains to be explained, which we see. This was done to make room for the requested hotel. Yet, the east part remains a cemetery, will not be formally defiled, and by law, only there can be a park. What law is that? Yeah, it's a cemetery law. I remind you of these reformed laws, Mr. President, as I did in my first speech, and that the city has not applied for an excuse for building monuments, as it should be legally. This report by the Ministry of Education does not mention any law on graveyards - as if they were of no importance. Besides, Mr. President, there's so much aggression against the Generals. The entrance both from Church Street across the corner and Thorvalssen Street. The person standing here had the opportunity to talk during the days with the executive manager, a company called Linda Lake, about various views that have existed in the hotel. We can agree on a minister's decision - if a decision can be called because there seems to be no decision - expecting a lot of traffic and rattles from suitcases to travel with or from the long drive point of the bus drive to the city hall, to move behind them from this hotel entrance or to him, from Church Street, and from Thorvaldens Street, between the Aldullis lodge and the house, i.e. Across the walls of the House. Is 36. the constitution, like any other dead letter that humans can put to nothing? According to 36 st. The Constitution of the United Nations is nonviolent and must not disrupt its peace or freedom. In this respect, the results of the Ministry of Education are far worse than the Generals. As I mentioned earlier, this subject has not been contacted by the local authorities. Nor does the review of the Constitution of this announcement or the report of the Ministry of Education and Culture as it is called. Mr. President. Thanks to those who contributed to this proposal that has protected the Viking Garden from cultural views and historical perspective. I reiterate thanks to Fridæk, Friðrik of Ólafsson for his team in preparing the proposal, but he even proposed. to challenge the city of honor in Reykjavík and an essay with her. It states that the people of honor are totally undefeated to build a hotel in a Viking park, one of the oldest of the country's cemetery, and a place of worship in the capital. According to the proposed plans that would account for the irreparable controversies of these delicate, historical areas in the heart of the capital, with their eyes, to a range of distances, to a park. Then I thank Professor Þorláksson for many things, especially the history of the cemetery and the Land Phone Zone, which is among the most widely practiced scholars in this case. Furthermore, I thank Mr. Hjörn's Hjörleifur Stefánsson's architect for providing me with a map of a Viking park that seeks to eliminate the eastern limits of the Viking Park, as historical evidence seems to gallop. The evidence I have mentioned here is from the hand of Friðrik Ólafsson and Hjörleifur, son of Stefánsson, who is available to each person. I appreciate your party importers, and especially why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, son of Gunnol, who had an effect on the wording of the synonym. This proposal, Mr. President, is like an emergency control in this case. It is designed to prevent the decisions of the city's rulers, who act as if they are free of cultural ambitions and historical awareness. I'm counting on it. A Senate committee is very effective in this regard. The city showed concern for the Viking park by churning the hall in the mud at a magnificent meeting on Saturday, and then innuendo the park.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I may have used the opportunity to ask him a question that I could not answer earlier, since he is the 1st traveller. I wondered what I may be most concerned about, which is the cost, and I wonder if he has agreed on what this may cost a trust fund. Second, I'd like to interpret yesterday's conclusion quite differently. It's spoken here as if there's no peace there, and of course it's wrong. I think the conclusion that if you bring the entrance and peace to The Sheriff's Park is good for both of us who want to keep in the story and for us - and I think I'll join in both groups - who want to build up the city and allow companies to reflect on exciting projects. I'll also take advantage of the opportunity to ask the senator, since I didn't get the answer earlier, because there are, of course, many other things around here, whether he would take it all for granted, Hotel Borg, Clabar, School bridge, or other similar activities around the Assembly Hall. This must be about the appearance surrounding the Council here in the heart of Reykjavík, but in many places the same activity is comparable to that of those who will rise there. Hv. A senator then often discussed the law on cemeteries. Maybe I'll get to that in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As a result, I have studied financial views in this matter. I put it in my speech that I had had the opportunity to talk to the manager of a builder. He explained to me the value of what would have been done in the holding or related library, which is far more than a tolerated building if I understood the other person correctly. I have also been a member of a budget board - which I was - an opportunity to study plans for building a new office building for the General Assembly and the cost of it. If you take it together, if it were to conclude that the State would have the Land Phone house, it would be possible to accommodate much of the views behind plans to build a new office house and simply fall away from those plans. In fact, after listening to a discussion about that matter in the field, I allow myself. The legal committee, to believe that this project may be a fiasco. This is what I wanted to say about the financial aspect of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for answering one of my questions. I'm gonna ask you again, "Have they got what?" Councilmen who present this matter with some overall vision of other activities around here? How do they see it, and why just this? Also, I did not find the answer to my question in previous comments about whether the park had not been decomposed in 1838. Part of the park is at peace, and I wondered if anyone has studied the matter well enough. And talking about costs: While thinking about what's under there, of course, I'm not going to be corrupted or lost - I wondered if members of the council are willing to set standards of public funds for tens of millions of dollars damages just to stop this building that is far off and have a good agreement and concluded by moving the entrance. First and foremost, I want the answer. Congress members have a complete vision of the area around the General Assembly and of whether they will take possession of more houses and businesses, hotels, bars, restaurants, and other places to attend the council. I think it's an interesting setting of priorities in all the matters that represent the legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u75	Mr. President. When you ask me about your perspective, I simply want to allow myself to point it to the point. A senator that makes it so little to look out of the window and see firsthand the projects that are absolutely in the General Assembly. I notice why. The senator seems to give no consideration to the viewpoints presented here, that there is a law on cemeteries, and that he does not follow them. No, no. Hv. It seems that a senator does not give for the fact that this is a Constitution of the Generals' immunity, nor is it mentioned. Then you'll see. A senator here on board some figures of hundreds of billions of dollars. Hv. A senator has just no idea where that number came from. While they are not, they are just like each other. I'm also going to let me say that I'd rather have expected that -- or at least. Rather, it would be expected - that for the sake of this matter, the representatives of the more part of the city would be represented in the city of Reykjavík and who are responsible for the cultural and historical accident this proposal is intended to avoid. But it is the third man of the Independence Party that is acting in this way, such as the driving force. A member of the council is repeated here. It's amazing to see the Independence Party in this, like many others, living on the rocks. One day independents would have handled matters differently. In fact, in 1965 and 1966, under the leadership of the then prime minister, Barbara the Bjarni of Benediktsson, they did so. At that time, governments were seeking to avoid plans similar to their own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u76	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the last speaker and courier for giving this matter. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir IsleÓlafur Ísleifsson ruse about the change that is evidently about to develop the attitude of the Independence Party toward the church, toward culture, and to the heritage of the peoples that we possess in Iceland. It is really remarkable to see this when the leadings of the party come up here and speak for the work that is there. Sometime, as a senator rightly said, one would have been shocked even more. But it is likely that the Independence Party is about to take the lead in becoming just like all the other political parties here at the General Assembly. Hv. A senator speaks of the importance of keeping the story, the appearance, and this remarkable story that this cemetery has. I'd like to ask if the matter is not a little bigger, whether it has anything to do with any other matter that has been presented here, which focuses on the planning of the Council of the Council, i.e. to define the General Assembly and the vicinity so that the Council will be organized. And yes, we can have some effect on buildings or projects like that. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir spoke of earlier, she mentioned certain bars and hotels, something like that. Perhaps this could be affected if the Council had the organizational authority they needed to have over their environment. Indeed, it has shown that the city has not survived for years. She has completely neglected the environment under which the Allied enjoys. All we have to do is look across the Eastfield to see, I'm just gonna let myself say it, that ugly cow that's never been thought of for years and decades, and some rock 'n' out here that's just a disgrace to the Council being outside the house. Besides, the East Field itself is a dark and ill-mannered place. It is the city that is, of course, responsible. A general body needs to take over its surroundings, including the very things that may be done. Senators are here to discuss the matter. So I ask the senator, isn't it really bigger than that, so it's all about this? Is that not also true of the environment around the General Assembly and the culture and history of the world around us?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's the whole point. Lately, a bill on organizational matters was given at what is called the General Assembly. Transporters are two, huh? General Assemblymen Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson and Jón Gunnarsson It is assumed that there will be a special government over this organizational setting. In fact, it is not this way in the bill that the Council has no ultimatum in these matters. Rather, this five - man government has assumed that the Allied Council names two representatives, the two city and then one without an appointment, as far as I know. This proposal is naturally intended to place some firm place on the organizational affairs around the Assembly Hall. There's good reason. It is hard to imagine any country that we would like to compare with where the legislation of the legislation was presented to another kind of conduct, and it involves having the projects we see here through the window, with the noise and confusion and interference of it. I allow me to view this proposal as such, on the one hand, as a suggestion. A member of Parliament made it a subject of organizational matters and then the one intended to protect a Viking park specifically and at the time of the General Peace of Culture, is endeavoring to demonstrate that at the Council of the Council is a resistance, a practical resistance to these programs, characterized by a lack of cultural ambitions, and that it appears to be a complete lack of historical awareness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There is evidence of this loose conduct, which we may see the characteristic of the speech of some speakers who, like the Independence Party, have come at least in the least, who are crossing the community today, that even the old, massive groups that were once trapped in Icelandic society, such as the Independence Party, are now disappearing from it and becoming just like the rest of the groups that spring up from the grassland, or what to call them, and thrive on serving the interests of community media or something. So I want to wonder. A senator whether it's this hour - what should we say? I'm not gonna say crazy, that's the wrong word, but some kind of practice that runs on one of the Independence Party leaders to speak against this proposal. There's something else I'd like to mention. It is true that in this sermon, the decision of the Ministry of Education and Culture is of course zero. It is overheat on which it has come from because the contractor offered some solution to the smaller authorities. Whether the Ministry put pressure on this result, i.e. I don't know, but let's not rule it out, so we don't have to pronounce a ruling on the case. Then you wonder, " Why do people go on that road? ' What is the point of this authority if they do not trust in it? Another thing I'd like to mention: Am I the right one to remember? A senator, that allegation funding is about 3 billion, 3,000 million? On the basis of experience, if we look at the projects that have taken place in the city during the past few years, we can expect that number to at least doubles or adds substantial amounts. It's a little hard to estimate a number of things that we don't know what is before the resurrection. As a result, we will not be able to tell what kind of money would be involved if the house is taken into possession or prepared for this house that is being built here, to be a problem for all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's contribution to this discussion. Yes, there is no room for a person to think that it might be interesting to know the background of the events that we have witnessed in connection with this matter, such as the Minja Office, the Ministry, and the executive. You can think back, as I allowed myself to do earlier, and you can recall that the government of that time, the restoration government that was called, has nothing to do with the fine political party that is now under that name - and was front of Ólafur Thor and so far off under the direction of Bjarni son of Benediktsson while he was enjoying himself, led by him in the matter. This synopsis reviews a report. You're right. A senator says, it used to be. I'm talking about a political party that I've had for decades, including some historical and personal reasons. It's a bit sad to compare this, and in the 1960's, Bjarni Benediktsson was there, and those who spoke in this case were Bishop Sigurbjörn Einarsson and a National Eldjárn Guard Kristján, later president of Iceland. But we see how things are going now. In fact, the Independence Party has many spirit - begotten people, including members of its council. But I find it a little painful to see the Independence Party succeeding in the living that those who want to respect historical remains and the church values below, since it is a cemetery with 1,000 years of history and 30 generations - they have no shelter, as far as possible, in the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u80	The president asks for a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u81	A respectable president. It is true that we speak seriously. Organizational affairs are one of my favorites, and it must be said that in organizational matters, everything will be much simpler if we just have an empty magazine. It is always a curse when organized into a house with all kinds of houses and history, culture, and so forth. Things will somehow be much more complicated. So I have an insight into the viewpoint of the motionmakers that they may feel that a full person near the Assembly Hall was able to build hotels. But it's out there today, a respectable president, a lot of hurt. It's a lot of dick in the middle of town, so it's local. I wondered, " How far are the candidates willing to go in that regard? ' As noted, it would be a significant cost for the state's funds to enter this project and to buy the box and the building permit there. But that alone would not be enough, for what do the candidates want to see there? Likely, we do not want the wound that is there today. They would have to do other projects, whether it was a park or whatever it is that candidates would like to see. I must admit that I feel that this field has been pretty ugly for a long time, long before it went in breaking and digging there. The cell phone house itself was not a beautiful place for me, and there was no special pleasure at the parking lot near the Assembly Hall. I must admit that if I am to choose between what was and what is now seen in the suggestions of those who have the right to build in the area, I am moved to feel better about it. In fact, in view of the discussion that was originally created that it was normal to have some larger space around the Assembly Hall, there could be some sort of security issue. It may also be some kind of respect for the Assembly and its construction that it would be reasonable for the Assembly to have organizational authority and to control a larger area. Then I just wondered if we should not just sell this house and build a new house elsewhere. I'd think of a lot in Mosfellstown where it would be nice to build a beautiful place, we have beautiful nature there, and we could control a much larger space than we have here. But I have to say, even though I may have some insight into the viewpoint that many feel that going pretty close to the National Assembly with that structure there is so easy to point out other examples around here, where there are both restaurants and hotels. I see it late that we'll someday be planning on buying up buildings around the Capitol to make a bigger space. I think that's a pretty crazy idea. I don't see the point. In such a case, would it really be bad to have hotels in a foreign area where hotels and bars are around here? I can quite agree that I don't think the East Coast is a beautiful area, and I would like to see the open areas in the city better maintained and more beauty would be around this area. In fact, I think the structure that may have fallen, that there will then be a new and beautiful house. I suppose those who build it intend to sell lodging to tourists, to take all pride in the beauty of the environment. Of course, it can only work with an organization downtown. As far as the cemetery is concerned, I think there is a good reason, in view of our frequent discussion of structure, and that is exactly what is happening in the centre of Reykjavík, we also discuss the tighting of a cemetery. To the future, I think there is reason to look for other ways, but we have gone to this point when it comes to the cemetery; increasing people's freedom to choose which way to go, whether it is incineration or traditional geology. Then you might ask, " How can I bury a log or build some kind of tomb, such as being recognized in more densely populated areas or increasing my freedom to distribute ash or do something else? ' Only the one listed here will offer some suggestions on this subject. Although I have a clear understanding of the point of view presented here, I can hardly agree that it should be a higher priority for a government fund to go into projects that are already cast off at the cost resulting. I also wondered, " What is the vision for the box instead? ' How far is the treasure of the state to be built there or to hold in honor of the churchyard in some way? At the Council to own that box and care for it for the long future? What is it that candidates want in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u82	A respectable president. I didn't mean to give a special talk, but there's nothing else I can do after a few moments. Congress officials repeatedly tried to make me feel that my views were temporarily insane or that they made some sort of self - centered mistake. I can't interpret it any other way than to be trying to minimize what I have here and what my opinion is on the matter. I'd like to review some extra items that are not often caught. I'd like to start by referring to the fact that at the Land Phone Center, they're renovating the old Women's School Hall, 7 Main Street and Vallar Street 4, as well as the original appearance of the old independence clinic. It will be as if the past and the future are being ignored. It's not a lack of my cultural ambition that I don't look to the past enough. Looking to the past and the future is certainly not a lack of cultural ambition. Telling me to run away from Iceland's cultural history in reply, when I ask that when I consider the more objective questions that are not answered in this case, it's against me. We often compare ourselves with other countries, Icelanders feel that our city is not boring to be like cities around us, that we follow good examples, and that we learn from other nations. The same can be done in this case. In the cities we often compare ourselves with, you see, we want to compare history with culture in the construction of individual inhabitants. As far as I can see in this field, both views have been taken care of. Transporters have been talking about the past, but they seem to lack the vision of the future. You wonder only the discussion about the construction of the hotel on this side, as if a hotel is on one side, east of the park, which is already peaceful, and I don't quite know if the discussion is more about suitcases or around peaceful places. What a joy it is, then, to know about the Peaceful Garden that is very important in Icelandic culture as a design competition! Hopefully, that conclusion will be the result of making the country's history and culture high. Here I think I can play together such a nice respect for history and culture at the same time as the starting structure. Perhaps, because I did not get a clear answer to my question earlier, the Minja Society agreed that minas were removed from the property and that there are no less. The Sheriff's Park has been appeased. This structure is next to the rest of the structure that is close to the General Assembly. I think we should be careful to cherish our culture and history, but at the same time, we dare have a vision, which seems to me completely lacking in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u83	Mr. President. I'm here in this case where there's a proposal to make a resolution that the state will possess the Land Phone house or take possession of the part of the property across the old eastern Viking cemetery. There is no need for anyone to go to any graveways to see that under it was a cemetery. When the old Viking churchyard was divided into this part, west and east, the eastern part would go to the pharmacy, and in time it would appear to have been forgotten by the agencies, at some point, that there was also a cemetery - not only under what we call the Food Park today but also, in a short time, where it was a parking lot. The end has come. Last time, 2016 came up there 20 complete coffins. So I come up here to make many of the things I told you earlier, e.g. I don't know what I'm supporting this case. It is first of all the peace of the General Assembly, the Generals' immunity, second of which is the espionage of cemeteries, the safety of which this facility is very narrow, this intended hotel, and finally the scene of the Eastern field as the center of the city of Reykjavík. I have considered it an unbreakable portion of the covenant of generations to defend the remains of the ancestors. I think it's the main thing about this proposal, to show proper respect to our forefathers by not building buildings over ancient cemeteries. Under there wasn't a cemetery that long ago. The last tombs are taken there in the late 19th century. I request that the Council respond, as was the case in the Western Islands, after the Western island's eruption, where the cemetery was cleansed in 1973. With the guest's help. It was done right away. Let's give it a priority to clean up the cemetery. I request that we show honor to the cemeteries of our ancestors as much as the people of the Thomson who have built defenses, a tray defense in Elder Lake, so that the river in its floods would not break this old cemetery that was in Ása Church. We are under obligation to defend the sanctity of our ancestors, and I hope that this case has a clear way through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you for delivering this case and for the rest of the case. It's been a long process, with this building block on the other side. Somehow, there will be a series of incidents, but they need to button it together and then decide how the situation is. It somehow gets pushy, and as a result, it's not taken, you feel that decisions that work well for you. I don't feel that the churchyard's respect is imminent in this matter - like the last speaker, gi. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, come on in. I'd like to quote a report that follows this synonym, but it says, under the title Law, it's unappreciated: It must be assumed that construction of a church building is not in accordance with existing law and that the law is correct. 36/1993 as well as more than any church law in 1965. The procedure is not compatible with 33. in the current law, which says that in a decompositioned cemetery, no monuments must be built unless the minister grants a release. But such a release shall be subject to the church council's consent. The city has never asked for permission or not. For this reason, church council has demanded an explanation for their behavior. As a result, I would like to ask the senator: Has he or those who present this matter had no answer in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It seems that these laws, the cemetery laws, are totally disregarded in this matter. We observe that they are overlooked as if they do not exist; they have never been put on notice. Yet, they were put here in this dignified house. Now that I'm up here, I'll have to take this opportunity, and wonder what way the Independence Party has been in this case. They talk a lot about the cost. It grows in their eyes. I just want to point out the opportunities. What are the opportunities? This house could be used by the Generals. There we would save much expense to build a house for the council, as is now planned. Don't they see this opportunity? I am most surprised that members of the Independence Party do not flock to this very matter. You would have thought so in advance that they would swarm on this to protect the tombs of their ancestors, who are certainly underneath.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u86	V.E.G. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator that it is a little strange to listen to the hollow sound in the case of members of the Independence Party, to me it sounds hollow in the light of history, as I read from the report earlier. There are great possibilities of how the State could use this house. It just needs to have a fertile imagination about it. I must snoop to the fact that I respect areas such as cemeterys are deteriorating. I've seen it on TV shows, and I've heard it on the radio, and it's being discussed on this subject, and I often feel that people take it lightly, knowing how these areas are going. This has been driven, not to take a stand on this matter once and for all, with respect to this cemetery in view, as do other cemeteries around the country. The people buried in those gardens have built up the land, and we are to show them full respect. We're always talking about it here at the General's honour. Then there must be respect for the past and be free to cross over. I appreciate this discussion, and this is the best case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for my hearing, his support in this matter, and I want to state in my answer that now is a critical time, it is a critical moment in this matter, these days. The ancient cemetery is being excavated. They're supposed to get in his face and save him, peace him, possess him, at least in the middle of the cemetery, the eastmost part of a Viking churchyard, where 30 generations of the Smokelands rest. It's a bad time now. I'm here to welcome every senator who's giving this matter to the team.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u88	Mr. President. I have been very involved in organizational matters, with a pure interest in them, and then I am brought up in part to 101, and I know this downtown much as it was a long time ago. Of course, he has changed, and this is very normal. This particular assignment involves a requested hotel building, and I've never been comfortable with it, but I believe this project is so far too late to intervene in this way and it is suggested here. I'm not gonna say anything. The project itself and all that this has to do with failures is probably written on the city authorities and on the planning authorities and perhaps on those with ideas of a hotel building above their heads. What's on my mind is this multiply hotel market for the Posos. That's what I think is the main issue of this. What I mean is approved on the streets of the city that 23% of the construction amount - I am afraid to state exactly where the line is, almost one fourth - may be staying, and then we're not talking about privacy, we're talking about a home or a hotel. If we look at the neighborhood, both hotels that are built and hotels that could rise and likely rise, even the shallows have been dug, etc., I think that around 15 buildings are in the area from the Tiran to the harbor, and then up to the slope here right here on both sides, Her castle is covered as a hotel, probably, but not necessarily. There are hotels lined up on Main Street. Across the councilhouse is a hotel. They're building a hotel on Savile Street. It is considered that houses such as the Land Banker's House could become a hotel. There are two hotel buildings, and especially one at the Wall. If we put this together in this small area, we're here, let's say honestly between 10 and 15 hotel buildings and some very large. Everything that goes with it, the bus trips, and the shopping that are in a very special way, we call them beauties, as well as restaurants, bars, and so on, making it possible for you to travel in the Sisos, far beyond what you feel normal. It is filled with examples of cities in other lands, small cities, where conditions are something similar to what we can see how this has affected those communities. I don't have to trace it. There have been endless talk of how the city of Reykjavík, or especially the anxiety, has become foreign to many. Then I'm not talking about the people, I'm just talking about the operation there, I'm not picking up the foreign tourists at all. This is what I think is the main thing in this. Of course, a house is rebuilt for the good. We can see that at the General Assembly and, yes, we're about to play some role in the Land Phone House and remake it at least Within and in the Old Women's School, they also come, etc. We're not against this, so far from it, but it doesn't matter what these buildings are used. As far as the Sheriff's Park is concerned and the cemetery is concerned, I'm a little attached to the compromise that has been made. To put it this way, we can say that the use of the Pistol Park up until now with the statue of a Skúli and the trees and the few memory limits there, along with what may be added to it or with a change in the entrance of the hotel, was sufficient to remember this place that was once a churchyard in full use. I'm not that sensitive that I think there's no place to stretch into a cemetery, that's just how I'm made. I don't want to put it in very words, but come on to one, i.e. when we talk about cities in comparison. I have done so myself, but whenever we look at other cities and say, "Well, it's been done this way or queer in these cities and we don't want to be like this or the other? Then we have to remember how small the city of Reykjavík is. Likely, compared with its population, it is one of the smallest cities to survive, this small area from the harbor and around it, and this is under the Tarran. As the building force has developed there and their use of buildings makes you feel unique, I think, in its own order. I don't think you'll find cities where this share of shops, restaurants that I understand are now 370 in Reykjavík plus, and then I don't want to talk about the Qukina One but only the whole thing, plus these sleeping places, that you find a similar percentage elsewhere. But I don't have to investigate it. The heavy tourism service has simply become too heavy. We're talking about population and diversity. So I feel like I've been stopped here, stopped them as verb, i.e. that we've stopped these levels too much by reacting so many criteria in the planning and utilisation of the tiny downtown core we call the Qulosina.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u89	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you more than anything else. Councilmen who have spoken up in this discussion. In words, "head." paritaprevir Insectors of Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, secretary to the Independence Party, and the third leading man of the party, fine, I was told that there had been new peaks in the suit. A senator mentioned that the hall was to be renovated, and he seemed to understand from the councilman's case that there was a sacred poison, such as the cemetery, perhaps to the senator's mind and perhaps to others. It was a remarkable contribution, of course, but I'm going to save myself to have the words that I thought best for the case. Other than that, at least one senator in some substances. It's different how you're doing. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter, who is one of the general vice presidents, gave me a very good impression of the senator's viewpoint on these matters. The senator raised issues that are noteworthy, as well as regarding the future development of cemeteries and other matters. We know that this is a change of viewpoint among the people, as is seen by the growing number of cremations chosen rather than burial sites. The senator raised the possibility of increasing flexibility in the provision of remains. This is because of the viewpoints associated with our time. I would have allowed me to encourage the senator to give more emphasis than I thought could be meant in his language on the universal immunity. Likewise, I would like to say that the view that something has been trampled on for a long time does not justify disrespecting treatment in a sacred field. We must be humans to live up to our responsibilities. They have chosen to place this cemetery as a parking lot, and now it is due to rise the Parliament Hotel, as it is so beautifully called, with great noise and discomfort before the anticipated Council. I'd like to thank you too. Generalist Ari Guðmundsson for his meditation on the organizational matters. It's interesting to hear him talk about the Sheriff's Garden, and I'm not talking about the statue in it, which is made by the father of the senator and is a natural masterpiece like so many other things that came from the hand of the great and good artist. His viewpoints and discussions about the bouncy of the Qunos are worthy of all attention. I won't say any more, Mr. President. I repeat what I said. This suggestion is like an emergency control. It is to defend for historical and cultural reasons an ancient place in the heart of the capital. Of course, this park is very special in that it has this thousand - year history at least. in the capital of the country, in the center of the city, and there are so many things that make this field absolutely special that requires it to have the protection it deserves. Otherwise, Mr. President, I'd like to thank you for this discussion, and I'd like to suggest that the case be referred to a committee and a subsequent committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u90	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to put this into words any more, but it's been interesting to listen to the discussion on this subject. The conversation was a little cold in the past. A member of the Parliament faced a member of the Independence Party. I found a news report on the 21st of November 2013, and, with the permission of a president, I'm going to quote these words only: The Allied Council Committee has charged Reykjavíkurburg decision - to agree to the Communication at Qunosium - to the decision of the Environment and Resource Committee. The General concluded that by his decision, the city of Reykjavík was disrespectful to the National Assembly of Iceland and the history of the country. According to Article 36 of Council, the city of Reykjavík is said to violate, among other things, the Constitution of the Council, which states that the Council is at peace and that no one is to disrupt its peace or freedom. According to the World Council Committee, Reykjavíkurbourg had to investigate the needs and requirements of the Council and consult with them when the decision on the disorganization was made. No such thing was done, Aldus'comments were ignored, and nothing was done to address her point of view. By this manner the General believes that the city was devoid of respect and violation of the Constitution, the National Assembly of Iceland, and the history of the country. This is further on, but I don't have time to go over it. I ask the senator, has the senator studied this matter in history? And does he know this? Is this true in his case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson's son. As a result, in a paper with the synopsis proposal to the World Council Committee at its time, the committee on which it is now called, an environmental and organizational committee somebody, but the conclusion became that the charges were eventually retracted. In fact, I also want to state that I contacted the three former presidents of the Generals in preparing the proposal, including the Ásta Ragnheiður, the daughter of Jóhannesdóttir, who made this suggestion, a suggestion for the Generality Organization, which has now been reassigned. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson and Jón Gunnarsson, as I mentioned earlier. So the prime committee and the president of the Generals have had great access to the case over the years. It has been very much resistance, but it is as if there are less resistance for some time than it has been in times past.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u92	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. I had to come up here and think about this when I saw this, because there was a little bit of pressure between the senators on the matter. The same was shown in a talk by a young man. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said it was too late to stop work. I find that an extremely weak answer, but I think of the senator in a light bed because I think of the construction of the Land Hospital that has been very much discussed. It said that there had been too many decisions and too much planning. But really it is, so over the centuries, it has expanded without anyone really forming strong opinions about it. No one has had a say in the matter because people ignored it. Then it was only time for something to be done, and it was started even though there were much better ideas on building a new hospital in a new place. So there's something to say: it's just too late, we have to finish this. And then you get a little hot. It's kind of creepy, I think. I don't have a question to ask you. Finally, I thank the senator for the discussion, hoping that the matter will be well discussed and understood by everyone in the Senate to gain the green light.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u93	Thank you. Senator. I may not be exposing any secrets here, but, of course, I thought about getting a representative of more political parties along with this council agreement. I was particularly interested in getting a representative of the largest political group, and I put it into practice by talking to influential members of the currently out - of - council class, but I could not. No one there was in the fine council who trusted to lend support to this matter. Perhaps, if you are allowed to guess for a reason, there could be an insult to the current part of the city's city of Reykjavík, or that it would be in some way too bad for more than what is become of that section a mismanagement toward the city's organizational affairs and, most important, the organizational affairs of the city's city. I'd like to make it right, Mr. President, that the financial background of this case is if the State came to have the Land Phone house, which is a magnificent house, and would suit themselves very well as an office house for the General, but it would also be possible to fall from the plans for building a new office house that I traced to my speech, and I believe that this building might be a bit of a lack of money. I'd like to finally agree with what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. There's an awful moment in this case. Here's your emergency control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u94	A respectable president. I am happy to speak here for an important matter involving the rights of children as caregivers or children who have lost one or both parents or close to them. The bill is a change in various laws due to the rights of children as caregivers and involves certain initiatives of several sides, ensures the cooperation of parties in the interests of these children and rights, and induces certain instructions. Based on the case, inquiry and research have also been provided to prepare it. There are many things that are yet to be enlightened and continued, but what is already evident suggests that there is a great need for effective action and for making major changes. The bill was previously submitted to a Council of 148th but was not granted. It has now been brought forward and has made some adjustments from what we have learned since the last time we made it up. There are significant changes in the bill for the better and to further reconcile it to existing legislation so that its production can become as easy and clear as possible. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights was legalized in this country by law No. 19/2013. Eight. The contract obligates Member States to respect the child's right to maintain it as an individual, including family ties. In this country, little thought has been given to the right of children who have a parent who suffers from serious health problems or children who lose a parent, either because of illness or by accident. On the other hand, the situation of these children has been focused on our neighboring countries. However, a study of the status of these children was conducted that energized Jón Bjarnason, former general and minister, the study under the lead of Dr. Sigrún Júlíusdóttir with the support of Ólöf Nordal, then member of the state of state. The study results are three reports published in 2015, 2017, and 2018 of the paediatric and family protection series of the Research Institute. The study shows that the data and support of children in these medical, school and social settings are included. The study included health - care professionals, school directors, and the experience of the families of whom a parent has been diagnosed with cancer and died of cancer. It was observed that the needs of the children are ignored, that they are separated from the parent's illness, and that they often have to endure incorruption and clumsiness of the adult. This was especially true of health professionals and at school. Then, after the death of a parent, there are other factors that do not ensure that the child's family ties are maintained with close relatives of the deceased parent or another close child. Even children whose parents have died have been adopted from the family of the deceased parent without knowing or having a say in the matter. This injustice in law has now been corrected by law No. 35/2018, review of adoption law, No. 130/1999, with subsequent changes (described). It was a song bill that we made for great happiness here last spring and it's time to celebrate. Here we continue to reform this group for this vulnerable group because of the delicate situation these children face. Better if possible, therefore, there are more areas to be assured of the right of this group of children. It should then be noted that it is the child's right to maintain and identify his or her background, but studies show that this is a role in trusting the child's well - being. Foreign research has shown that childhood traumas, such as the loss of a parent, can have a dramatic effect on a child for long periods of time, his health, his career, and his future as a member of the community. Thus, all support for children who face this situation is vital and essential for each of them. This alone shows the importance of this bill, and the importance of success. At the same time, the support of children in this situation has a general preemptive effect, reduces the cost and likelihood of long-term effects, and may contribute to the active and successfulness of their community involvement in the future. It's about taking action immediately before the consequences are met, so it's better to act at first. This bill suggests changes to the patient's rights, health care professionals, children's law and laws on all schools, i.e. The law about high school, elementary school law, and high school law, to make sure that children who have died, due to disease or death, are assured appropriate support and counselling in these circumstances and that they are respected. Their right to contact with close relatives of the deceased parent or other close - born child. Those who are working around these matters will often be aware that after the death of a parent, and within a few years, all ties with the family of the parent who died are lost. As I have been doing here and research indicates, it is not the best welfare of a child but the best welfare of a child to ensure that this relationship and that the child knows its origin. Norway has the right of children under the laws on health care and health care laws, which include the laws on health care and health care. The obligation of healthcare professionals to ensure the right of these children as caregivers as well as the obligation of the institutions to provide specialised health care professionals responsible for this category. The changes suggested in the bill are followed in the footsteps of key neighboring countries, many of which have set a law on children as partners and thereby guaranteed children their right to support, counsellor, and association in these circumstances. At the same time, the legal adjustment proposed here is to ensure that certain procedures will be started in the designated Member States and ensure that children in this position will be informed of their legal and social status and will receive the services and support that the adjustment is intended to ensure them. I also want to be aware that with the legal adjustments we make here, we're going to legalize, as I came into the past, certain initiatives, responsibilities to certain parties, ensure that cooperation between parties, within a new personal protection law, of course, and instruction required. Anything to ensure the child's well - being and to provide certain preventive measures. There is no detailed application of how all of this is to be done. Here, we are only putting these obligations and instructions into the law and the message in which to work. It is so helpful to find out what work is best for each child and for each family - it is important that we are not here to contribute to the precise application. However, we trust the professionals and those who are working on these matters to implement them. This is so stated in regulations and regulations and such. Here we are sending a clear message from the Lawgiver. This is a sensitive group of children who find themselves in this position, we want them to be instructed, put their arms around them, collected information about the status and status of these positions, and assisted with information and appropriate treatment as appropriate to each of them and should be given the attention they need. There are many in the system that are doing well in this. It just depends on which school the child is in, on which health care or in the surrounding community. We need to make sure that this is general, and we need to make sure that somewhere there is a child's spokesman. When a person is very ill or has his or her life busy in families, there is a system that has to be held around a child, the child's spokesman, and the child's rights are in place. That's what we're doing with this bill, and it's very important that it succeeds. Transporters come from all classes: Vilhjálmur Árnason, Albert Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sverrisdóttir Sverisdrisdótttir, Páll Magnússon, Jónsson Inónsson, Anna Kol Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðjón, Hrafn Ingi Kristinsson, Gunnarsson Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, Helga Vala Helgadóttir Helgaa Helgaóðsson, Mólfánfjörnsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, and Ourfánsson. I suggest that the case be settled. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee. I hope to have a good cooperation within the council to treat this matter well and to treat it through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur of Árnason's history, and for this bill that I think is a great improvement, and it's just very pleased with the bill. But what I thought was that there might be a problem is that information is transmitted between parties, i.e. Healthcare professionals and schools, nurserys, and those who need to know about the matter. Not only can the information be received to a healthcare professional because some of these illnesses, even chronic illnesses, are shy and even shameful. They may not be announced at any front. On the one hand, I think we also need to take a good look at everything we have to do with confidentiality. All health care professionals are committed. It would take something, I think, to correct another law on this license to carry this information between the institutions. It's, for example. the obligation of staff to report to child protection if they see a pot being broken, worry about a child, but I know there's trouble in this system. I think there'll be a lot of problems in the process so it has real meaning and benefits for the child or children. I think it would also be most beneficial to define and explain as much as possible in the bill itself rather than leave it to the Commission in the implementation Regulation. I'm happy about this, and I hope that the welfare board accepts these comments, and I'm more inclined to look at them because I'm worried. That's a good thought, a good idea, a great bill. But I don't think it will be easy to implement this project so that our goals will be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good speech and practical suggestions. I can take my heart into her mind and stress the importance of the fact that the information works out and that it works. We will, of course, discuss this at the moment. A welfare committee, but I still wanted to come up here and point out that the thought here is that we put certain responsibilities on a party to talk to each other. It is within the bill a legal obligation to inform between, to health care, within the medical system, and to the school level. It is also assumed that this is done in cooperation with the immediate family and other activities and is done in accordance with the personal protection laws. This special law enables communication by putting this obligation on these bodies to inform one another. This point is a major factor in the entire child - protection system. Now it's got the highest. Department of Social Affairs set up a team for children's affairs where I sit. This is the very issue, how information going between health care professionals, schools, and other persons can be more relevant to providing for their child's needs and to respond to the circumstances in which the child is in. I just wanted to come up and agree with this important point and point out that we're trying to go as far as we can in the law itself, and then we're gonna see how this job goes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u97	Mr. President. Thank you for those answers. I believe, as is evident by the transporters of this bill, that there is a parapolitic reconciliation on the need and quality of this matter. But with regard to responsibilities, whether in a health field, a field, or anything else, it is not enough to appoint these duties to employees. As I said, if any help is suspected to be needed, it is mandatory already in preschool personnel to report to the child protection. I know it's an inability to do this duty, and that's what you may be worried about. We know that these are exactly the classes that may be under the most stressful circumstances, i.e. Healthcare professionals, workers at preschool, and staff at elementary school. It's hard work in the system to take on too much work. Unfortunately, I especially know in preschool, that in the event of this suspicion, the child is not given the benefit of the doubt but is less work load. This is very, very sorry. But I'm glad that this work on information flows between institutions, what can go between them and what can't be started. I think it's very necessary, but I think the commitment to employees is not enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u98	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that there's a certain inadequacy, and all you have to say is that the child protection system is often painted up as some sort of joke and that if it's announced, you're doing something wrong. It's a bit that people experience the system all too often, but then they experience the services of the system that it is quite different in most cases. In most cases, this is the case. I agree that it is important to keep working on this and not belittle it. But I'd like to mean that the matter we have here should not meet with confusion and shyness where this is an obligation to ensure the child's service because of some inevitable event of death or prolonged or serious illness and to help the child enter the situation. The report has to be made from the health authorities to the government and the county according to incidents in order to improve the child's post-death environment, to help them in their own circumstances, e.g. School, through the shock of the death of a parent. That's why I think this should be a bit of a motivation for people to have this responsibility to report it to ensure the child's well-being and well-being.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u99	Mr. President. I thank you for the good answers, and I'm sure that continued treatment will only help. I might have wanted to mention, if I get to come up again, that I know that the U.S.A. has been with psychologists on her side for a few years now, eight years now, as they offer psychological assistance to children. There are huge waiting lists for young ones who need help and who want help from chronically ill parents. There's a lot of need for this because of all the reasons that they pick up in the bill, i.e. these may be chronic illness, death, this may be a mental disorder. It could be anything. Of course, we should give our children the benefit of the doubt and the privilege of service they need. I hope that continuing work will lead to the best solutions for our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u100	A respectable president. I don't want to extend the discussion too much. I want to thank you. The transferer Vilhjálmur Árnason for bringing in this counter-argument bill, which is long time. This has been suggested before, and unfortunately it did not have any progress, but hopefully it will take place now. We are concerned about the future of our children and that we can prepare them for the most mature environment in the world. Of course, they want to fail, and much of it happens on the long - range way of raising adults who go out in good faith and ambition and who seek to make good use of their training skills. Fortunately, in the vast majority of cases it will succeed. Hv. paritaprevir Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, has discussed this from her perspective as a nursery teacher and knows these circumstances, knows which strength often comes out, and what disturbances often become, which is sharp when problems arise. This is considerate of parents and consideration for their children. When are we doing their business, and when are we walking the parents'business? This is often a problem, and it is a very challenging situation, as mentioned earlier, for both health - care professionals and those who are working on training. Of course, this is a discussion that we have taken partly into a health committee, the information flow in children's interests. We have seen in situations where children's interests are being guided. Like what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came in early based on old superstition or prejudice that child - welfare committees are the forces of evil, and he wants to make some mistake for parents and children. These are challenging assignments that child - welfare committees have had to face over the years. In the past, they were interested people and filled with good intentions. These people were severely convicted, but now we've got this in a much more stable environment, and I'll let me tell you professionally. In order for us to make the necessary adjustments, we need to make a number of adjustments in several laws, and it will be exciting to deal with within the welfare committee and to take up the necessary discussion. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs has taken children's affairs into account more closely and intends to have them as a focus. That's fine. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned that there is a active group who are especially paying attention to how we can safely run through those people who deal with the issues and interests of children the vital information needed to protect the well - being of children. It is hoped that we will see a conclusion at the first convenient, but it is vital that we make good use of our time and skill. Perhaps this input, this bill, will become a guide or a reference to that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u101	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym that Iceland become a member of the United Nations Convention on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. The movers with me on the motion have a problem. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson The suggestions themselves are short and simple. He says, with permission from the President: The General concluded to hide the government from making sure that Iceland becomes a member of the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. I'm going to explain why the deal is happening to Iceland. First, it may be proper to state that both Council 147 and 148 C.E. were proposed, but the report has changed slightly since then. Thus, on July 7, 2017, a case of growth was adopted by a 122 member of the United Nations Member States on the ban on nuclear weapons. It is this way that when 50 countries sign them and legalize them, they accept agreements of this kind. It is hoped that, in time, this agreement will become a group of the most important disarmament treaties in the world, such as contracts to form the one on the ban on chemical weapons, biological weapons, and land mines. The situation today is that 70 countries have signed this agreement, and 21 countries have validated it. Thus, we will fog the 50 states, and it may be said that there is a sign of the importance of a agreement, such as the one involved here, that the ICAN organization, which has been preparing and implementing this matter in the United Nations and has been working on it for many years, received the Nobel Peace Nóbel in 2017. In fact, there's not much recommendation on the contract. In support of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, the ICAN ICAN organization that received the Peace Prize played a major role in bringing together the nations and preparing for this important covenant. There are over a fifth hundred peace groups and groups worldwide that are involved in this great organization, ICAN. I just want to step aside a few words of nuclear weapons because nuclear weapons are not just like any other weapon, and as much concern as I have in arms and warfare in general is of course, of course, very nasty because of their destructive powers. With one nuclear bomb, entire cities can be destroyed and killed by millions. We are aware of the disastrous consequences of the use of nuclear weapons in warfare. We all know what happened to the inhabitants of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, where some 200 thousand people died in an explosion in an instant. More than 70 years ago, people still struggle with aftereffects, sickness, and difficulties because of a nuclear bomb that was dropped there. The contract is long, and the Treaty on the ban on the spread of nuclear weapons since 1968, often known as the NPT Convention and 191 countries, has long been regarded as the most important disarmament contract in the field of nuclear arms. That contract includes bans on further spread of these destructive weapons, yet it places responsibility upon the nations already having such weapons to work toward their extinction. Little has been said about that part of the deal. True, nuclear bombs have declined, but instead they have grown to perfection, resulting in greater power. At the same time, most nuclear powers defend the wooing high amounts to develop new and perfect nuclear weapons, and the concept of limited use of such weapons in general warfare is discussed with increasing seriousness. So we are actually in the process of increasing the nuclear threat again. In this context, it is important to mention the recent reexamination of the Trump nuclear policy in Washington, which assumes a much wider use of nuclear weapons than previously discussed. It is important to remember that the bombs have been expanding and that their destructive power has been increasing, but it is still that these terrible nuclear bombs, experienced by the world, are small in comparison with the weapons that are now being developed. Unfortunately, the situation is becoming even darker than it is described here that at the beginning of this month, U.S. renovations were reported on another important nuclear disarmament contract, often known as the INF Convention or the treatance of the intermediate nuclear missiles, rockets that speed up between 5,5,500 miles, which may not have been more emphasised by the NPT Convention. The agreement on the intermediate nuclear missiles has been in force for some 30 years, and it takes place in the entire category of nuclear weapons, i.e. these intermediate groups, they will simply be destroyed. During and on the basis of that contract, the United States has destroyed some 850 nuclear missiles and 32 bullet holes and Russians of 1,850 nuclear missiles and 117 bullet holes. It's about less now. The agreement has been especially between the United States and Russia. If that happens today, after August 2, there will be no treaties for an intermediate nuclear launch, with the possibility that the development of such nuclear weapons will be restored to full force. And in the context of other air signs, as I previously referred to, including of the recently revised nuclear policy of the Trump government in Washington, there's good reason to be concerned about that. Of course, it's not just about the U.S. nuclear policy or the Russian nuclear policy because there are more nuclear powers. There are nine defined nuclear powers. It is estimated that these new countries have a total of 15,000 nuclear bombs. Hence, there is good reason to have big, heavy words when it comes to nuclear weapons. Happily, other nations of the world have agreed to refuse these weapons. And it's about a party to join the group that wants to ban these dangerous weapons that this council decree is going on. Yet, in the long run, opposers of nuclear weapons have warned that as more energy and money are spent in development and production of weapons, the increase in knowledge that again promotes growth. Sadly, mankind has never built a weapon that it has not finally used. That shows the experience, unfortunately. This is in view of all of this that a group of countries came to the conclusion that the international community would have to act strongly and bring into law a total ban on nuclear weapons, for it would be fully experienced that the nuclear powers themselves would contribute to their extinction within a existing covenant. Sadly, these days will prove true. A contract to ban nuclear weapons would begin, as in the case of the agreement on the ban on nuclear weapons, that the initiatives of countries that do not have these weapons will eventually be general. Thus, the world's world has already begun its conquest of terrible weapons. The nations that have led to the United Nations'ban on nuclear weapons are in many parts of the world, but it may be good to mention the European countries that approved the matter. Among the 122 countries that wanted this contract to be established were Sweden, Austria, Cyprus, Ireland, Malta, and Switzerland. Unfortunately, the PLATO Member States avoided these negotiations with the making of the treaty, and none of the NATO countries have yet signed the contract, but this hopefully will change soon, including is now a discussion in Spain. However, there are countries such as Austria and New Zealand in the group that have not only signed the contract but validated it. I hope the Senate will have a patrol here and the government will be assigned to turn Iceland into this contract. Already 25 seated senators have signed a vow or a promise to work on the ban of nuclear weapons. [[The president calls.]] I hope this important matter, in a world that is faced with nuclear combat growth again, will be approved and Iceland will soon become a party to the deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u102	A respectable president. I'm delighted that this council mishap has entered the Hall of Congress tonight. It is a merely frightening vision that was presented in the language of the day. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra. Today, we often stand in this torture court and discuss the climate threat and how little time we have, mankind, the nations of the world, in this context. When you transfer it to this threat, the threat of nuclear power -- become a big one in this speech - it's very scary, because we wouldn't have such a time as we hopefully have in the climate. If some politician or individual or political organization or some nation decide to act, mankind will be cut off much sooner than any climate could ever get close. Like what? A senator spoke of the development of these weapons much more than those that were blown up all those years ago. It's pretty awesome if you start thinking about it. Similarly, you may wonder, " Why is this all there is to discuss? ' It's such a hell of a threat. We see a statesman from the West, the president of the United States, who seems to be most likely. We'd better start taking this seriously and discuss it more within the political process. [[The president calls.]] I think the reason why it could be, is... [[The president calls.]] Yeah, I'm afraid to set a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u103	Madam President. I have to agree with what. Senator. How little a discussion of nuclear weapons has been made during the last eight years! I'm hardly old enough to remember the nuclear threat that those of the generation who may be older than I grew up with news of the imminent end of the world each day and have composed famous popular lyrics about the anguish and fear of how serious the threat of nuclear weapons was. But the reason is no less now, I'd count. Sadly, after the Cold War ended with a measure of tension, it has been building up again. It is now that the United States and Russia -- unfortunately, I don't have numbers about other nuclear powers, I remind you that there are more, but the United States and Russia are the biggest - are now with over 1,800 bombs ready for it, excuse the sleigh, Madam President, U.S.A. They're ready to be shot. Hv. A senator put this into contact with the climate, since we would have had to deal with most yesterday. Here we have the weapons ready to press one key, and they're off. Then the nuclear war just started, so it's such a serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u104	Madam President. I appreciate those words. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra and her reaction to what I told her earlier. As she spoke of herself - I was born at the beginning of the 1980's, and I grew up knowing that we were very aware of this threat and that my favorite law of Sting and others were doing just that. Therefore, I would like to direct that question to why. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Þóra Ager: Does she think there may be a need for more awareness about this in society, especially in education? Of course, without fear of propaganda, it is easy to turn such things upside down, as we have seen in human history. But you're aware of something, right now that's going on with the climate. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she thinks it is needed. I believe that the reason, possibly, that people are not as conscious and not talking about this today as they used to be because they somehow fell into the shadow of another political bitch, and because the risk of this was much smaller, I think, after the Cold War ended at this time. But now we're just like in science fiction, that it's not real, we're a little bit of denial. But it's about time that it all stopped as soon as possible, and that's why I hope this case has a good and quick start here at the Council. And, of course, that is not a question. It's only supposed to be a total ban on mass destruction weapons if we're going to stay here and give this earth to our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u105	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the firm support of the matter. That's extremely important. As I entered the conclusion of my speech, 25 members of the Council have signed a vow or pledge to work on the ban of nuclear weapons on a international agreement. It is important that we, as such, speak in a loud, clear manner and put the matter on the schedule. At all times, it is one of the major projects in politics, to set up a program, and to get them discussed in the community. I think fear propaganda is all right in this case because the result of nuclear war is the end of the world. It's happening very fast. It's just really scary to think, and to me there's no easy way around it. It's just a shitty, dark fact, and it's important that we speak very clearly. Of course, the presentation of a group of people that you are speaking at a time may be of great importance. However, this is a serious matter, and it is of great interest to note that countries that do not have nuclear weapons are setting things straight, for even though two countries that have nuclear weapons go to war between them are affecting all of them. [[The president calls.]] It is important that we speak loudly and that we speak clearly and that we make the matter clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u106	Before we continue, the president wants my answer. Councilmen are to respect the deadline. At the same time, the president wants us to use the full name of the members of Congress when we refer to them, and it is advisable that the senators will turn their calls off on their phones and radios before coming to the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u107	Madam President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for excellent counsel - which had its reasons, probably. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Arjörður of the Year's Árnadóttir for making this proposal for interpretation. This is not the first time she does it, and it is admirable that it will draw us to the attention of these serious matters that we may not give sufficient attention. We'll sleep on the guard. Somehow this is a little far away from us, although this chilling may be raised a second wave with footage from the disasters that occurred in Japan in its time. But there's worry, like what's wrong. A senator pointed out that weapons produced, such destructive things that are produced, are usually used in some context at one time. They're still fighting at it somewhere east of Asia, in garages or somewhere, and the beloved and reverend leader of North Korea is struggling to make some kind of weapon. He wants to mean that it is a nuclear weapon, but it is something that humans have to say. Kim Jong-un is doing a great job on nuclear matter. I'd like to let me ask you what. Senator: Do we mean that we are winning some of these lands for the ban? She mentioned that the number of the nations is increasing. But in connection with nuclear powers, is understanding for bans to grow?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u108	Madam President. What an important question that is! It's a question of whether we're winning the state of the highest authority in these matters on our side, i.e. The nuclear powers. So far, no nuclear power and no NATO Member States have been involved in this ban. But as I said before, there are some discussions in Spain, but I don't know where that will lead. This is an enormous concern. The fact is that NATO's military policy is based on the original rights of the alliance to use nuclear weapons. NATO is a military alliance that includes. An alliance of nuclear weapons. ICAN officials who were working on this agreement in the United Nations have emphasized that a state is involved in this agreement not automatically exposé from NATO or opposition to the military alliance of NATO. But for some reason, that has so far been interpreted. Then I'll say, "Well, then, it's a job to do, because whether we're in a military alliance or not, we're bound to understand the right to want to be against weapons of mass destruction. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This nuclear bomb covers all the bands of a thief, extending around the globe. Like what? A senator mentioned and mentioned in the motion, perhaps in a paper, may have reduced the number of weapons, but they have become far more powerful. Of course, we have nuclear weapons for peaceful purposes, to call. That may not be the subject of this council arrangement, but it does not. A senator's concern is that too? It may be closer to us the threat of the nuclear power that is used to drive ships and produce electricity. It's very close to the Baltic States, let's say, and in the ocean around us. Is this not also thought - provoking, and is there any way we can control this trend?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u110	Madam President. Of course, if anything happens in nuclear power plants, electricity can become an extremely serious accident. In fact, I believe that in this matter it is important not to kill the debate on the behalf of nuclear plants, as well as the risk of pollution and the threat of war, and on the other hand, more aggressive militaryism and policies reflected in production and the separating of the right to use nuclear weapons. I think it's important here to keep the focus on that we as a society, as a world, don't want to tolerate weapons of mass destruction. It's very important. There are people who feel that they are on the verge of going to a location where nuclear powers are not yet at the table when it comes to ban nuclear weapons. It is so important to remember that other important disarmament treaties have originated in peace movements and in countries that do not have such weapons. From there, the discussion and the social view that such weapons have not been present, and from there it has evolved. That is how we can win this struggle, since the nations of the world and the inhabitants of nuclear powers do not want to suffer these weapons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u111	Madam President. I'd like to back up my whole mind on this council arrangement and thank you very much. paritaprevir For transporting her and other importers from the left green, the Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir. We've been living in nuclear threats ever since World War II. Only in the 1980's and 1990's did hope become dimming at the end of the Cold War. We all remember a very important meeting in the Cape, where two superpowers were writing among themselves about reducing these nuclear weapons. Now the trend has returned. There are other countries that have developed nuclear weapons. Only 20 years ago, there were five kingdoms. They're approaching the tens we know they're coming through. There are other countries that we do not know of that have nuclear weapons. They may be fewer weapons than they are larger, and they are more powerful. It just means more destruction. With each passing year, there is always an increased risk of these weapons being covered by unscrupulous officials, much less by terrorist organizations or other groups, what we call the state of us as the Šrogue. I don't think it's scary. Iceland has a special place, we're a warless country. There are not many countries around the world that can boast about it. I'm proud of it, and wherever I go abroad, I always notice it. I've been talking about the need for Iceland to pursue independent foreign policy instead of always following everyone else. I think we're supposed to use this opportunity to accept this synonym, to practice this independent foreign policy, to give us courage and become pioneers in NATO by agreeing to this. I'd like to see how NATO would react. Like what? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir pointed out earlier, in general, there are no nuclear powers riding on the ground. Others gradually follow along. It's important to plant seeds. I think there's a chance here for us to show our unique position and stand with her and see those seeds in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u112	A respectable president. I hereby suggest a resolution on welfare techniques. The first carrier is a dog. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and with her on the motion is why. paritaprevir Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Bjöln Gjönssson, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir Braldsdólnsson, Kristinsson Insson, Bjöln Gjörn's Elíasdóttir, Leví Gnarsson, Harðardóttir G. Hardardur, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to assign a health minister to order a group that assesses the use of welfare technology in the service of older people and those who are disabled. The group emphasizes the methodology, e.g. in telecommunications, can be used here in the country, considering the experience of other northern countries. The group met the opinion that is useful in the field of health policy now performed in the Ministry. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the group's work to no later date than in September 2019, 1996. Then I'll follow through with the report. The concept of welfare technology is relatively new in Iceland, which covers a number of technical solutions in behalf of users, which are designed to maintain or improve performance, social involvement, and quality of life. The term is mainly used in the North countries, but it has worked hard to see how modern technology can be used to develop welfare services. Travel technique is one of the priorities of the Norwegian cohesion, specifically mentioned in Norway's North Council for 2018. The Government Treaty stresses the innovation of health matters by using the latest technologies in this field and by strengthening services for the elderly, i.e. At home nursing, daily training, rehabilitation. Then it is government policy. In September 2015, a health minister appointed a programme manager to identify the current health status of the services of the elderly and to offer suggestions to shape a new course of service to the elderly. The project program submitted proposals for health ministers in March 2016, and in September a report was released to the work group entitled Convention of Service to the Elderly for the next year. The Commission's proposal on the issues of the elderly to the Department of Social Affairs (216). On page 18. 6 says that studies show that most elderly people want to live in their own homes for as long as possible. It is important that the right to an independent home be respected, despite the contraryness of the individual's health and that special emphasis should be placed on receiving proper support and individual service so as to be able to extend the length of your own safety home. The report shows that technical solutions are becoming more important to achieve increased management in public. According to the social and housing minister, there was a staging policy for innovation and welfare technology. The use of a variety of technical solutions and innovations in the ministry, including maintaining and improving the skills of the elderly, can increase the likelihood that they can stay at home and not have to stay in nursing homes. The future challenges to older ones will not simply involve responding and giving more service to meet wishes and expectations. The challenges will be to create ideas that promote innovation in the ministry. This requires that the ministry become individual and that many options be made so that the ministry can be adapted to individual needs. Smart solutions will improve the quality of your ministry, which helps to cope with the new challenges. The 2016 report quotes another report carried out in the Ministry and published in 2015, a review of policies for innovation and welfare technology. It places high emphasis on innovation and technology in welfare services. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that well - being technology has to be recognized is one of the most promising ways to cope with the changes in the welfare system, making sure that vision is developed for long periods of time and financial support. It also discusses telecommunications and electronic home service. In 2039 and more than 25% in 2057, the U.S.A. Laboratory of 2017 will be over 20% of the population over 65 years of age. From 2047 C.E., those over 65 years of age will be more populous than those under 20 years of age. This trend is creating a financial limit for the implementation of health and welfare projects. Travel techniques can contribute to a variety of positive effects, such as increased safety, greater participation, and greater independence in individuals with impaired abilities and their caregivers. Travel technique can prevent or be added to the needs of support. It can also increase effectiveness in the ministry and facilitate communication between users, caregivers and staff. Most important, well - being technology can enhance people's social activity and reduce loneliness, although it is not a substitute for human relations, such as the one you can say, or face - to - face. Loneliness is a social and individual problem. The fact is that older ones are at risk of social isolation, especially those suffering from chronic illness or losing a mate. The 2014 Icelandic male and Skúlason report suggests that the situation of men who have lost a mate is in many areas worse than the situation of women who have lost a mate. Social assistance is crucial to these individuals. According to surveys, loneliness has increased annually and is much larger in urban areas. It is now estimated that about 18% feels lonely. A survey conducted at the end of 2016, analyses of the elderly, and the National Institute of Social Science for the well - being of Reykjavíkurburg, the Ministry of Health, and the National Association of older citizens, found that about two out of every three older citizens are never lonely. Yet, since 2007, the group of lonelinesss has grown as the first study was conducted, and in 2012, 13% of older citizens were sometimes or often lonely. It was also noted that more people experience loneliness at times or often among those who are unmarried or widowed, living alone, having little income, or having poor health. The northern countries and the United Kingdom have started a campaign to counteract loneliness. It is claimed that 9 million Britains are often alone, and a dance study shows that about 24% of those aged 65 and older sometimes experience or often loneliness. If we look to the northern countries and other neighboring countries, they have developed a variety of projects related to welfare technology, and we look to them in this council arrangement. We have an African example of an experimental project that was initiated there and ended in December 2015. The Country Government of Iceland set the goal of 90% of all 75 - year - olds to live in their own home in 2020. The objective was to introduce telecommunications to at least ten rural communities in the Iceland Islands and to use at least 50 elderly people for telecommunications. Most rural areas there have this goal in their plans for aging services. All the local communities were offered a part of the project. In 2013 eight societies enrolled, and six more were added the following year. Those who wanted to use telecommunications received instructions on how to use technology and a user-friendly contact screen were placed in the user's home. The selection was the screen size required for the user. We can also say that after 2040 or 2050, there are people who know well and are quick to adopt this technology. It may matter. When it comes to the setting up for telecommunications, there are two practical ways to coordinate the ministry. On the one hand, it is assumed that each community will completely care for its own services. On the other hand, they buy rural communities that share in the ministry from outside parties. The work in Iceland included three support services; daily activities; telecommunications; and social fellowship. During the project, it was shown that daily activities and social communities were the services that rural society used most and best. Project managers approached the global project and were able to provide support for users and rural partners. The needs of rural society are natural differences, and so are people. Some rural communities need to be able to offer all parts of the ministry while other rural groups need to be able to offer some of it. The need will always depend on the circumstances of the citizens who enjoy the ministry. The report concludes that the experience of the assignment in Iceland shows that telecommunications can have positive factors; decrease in spending, increase in performance among workers and time out of travel so that workers can have more time for those who need more help. This is precisely true here in every country, both of which can be a major service environment, e.g. just in Reykjavík, and a long way to go and time - consuming to go between, especially as the traffic is here, and we're also talking about large rural communities all over the country where it can be even a hour's drive. It's been tried and successful in the North, and we're looking for a way here. Transporters of this proposal strongly suggest that countries and rural communities work together to produce telecommunications in welfare services and thus improve the health and well - being of older people and those with national disability. Free service makes people like that, for example. can live longer in their homes, which is the desire of most people, saving much of the money on medical institutions and nursing homes. Loneliness and isolation are hazardous to health. So it is equally important to break up social isolation and use telecommunications. Improvements in home - service and regular social interaction have a positive effect on the health of people who add to their happiness and quality of life. It is suggested that the health - care minister arrange for a panel of health care providers to respond to the opinion of a health care provider. In view of the experience of other northern countries, the group will focus on how methods work best in this country. A respectable president. Now it's got the highest. Healthcare Ministers provide health - care policies that reach the year 2030. It contains emphasis on using technology progress to reach the health care providers by e.g. telepathy and increased opportunity with telecommunications and equal opportunity for all the people of the country. It is important that the hearing of this matter be completed at the same time as the health conference, for in this concierge form the same tone as it is made. It is now a matter of working out the welfare committee, and it is her natural inclination to process it. I hope it's good to bring her in while we're at it so that we can patch this up and maybe even strengthen each other. Of course, this technology never replaces human relations, but it is certainly a way to break the wall that many people live on alone or that they do not have an equal relationship with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u113	Madam President. I want to thank you. A merchant in Höllu Signý Kristjánsdóttir for measuring for this synoptic decree. It reflects farsighted vision and is also conscious of the social changes that we are going through and ahead of us. This suggestion depends well on the discussions we had in the Hall yesterday, a special discussion on telepathy and remote health care, and also applies to the views presented in the case of most members of the council who participated in the discussion. It is stated in a paper with this synonym that the concept of welfare is derived from the North countries. Someone may feel that this is a little cold, welfare technique, but it must be called, and it is not unusual for the welfare services to make new technologies and ways to improve the ministry, for this is just one aspect of making the ministry even better, much less humanitarian and more productive. Of course, these are factors that have been a priority in all the North countries, and they have come far beyond us. We are left behind, and we can do much better in this regard in our rural, large country where our citizens live in rural areas, and often it is adults who live in the rural areas. That's it. Travel techniques, such as the import of a shipping agent, highlighting the history of Norway's Presidency in the Northern Council, and Norway has given much attention to this matter. The storm has spread to Iceland, so there's no denying it. We know the concept, and we know the subject, we talk about it, but we do not feel very good about it. However, the Treaty of the present government has established several words for innovation in health care, and these technologies are referred to as distant medicine. That's fine. This subject may not be well - cared for by remotest therapy. It is a remote health service that can include other services in the field of health and social services, as well. It may also be possible, and it is enjoyable, whatever it is in the world to feel that there are sometimes a little open and floating, but it is in the existing process of living up to 20183/42024, a number of factors are clearly defined, including telecommunicational health services. It has clear goals, i.e. improving health care through the use of new technologies and communications in the implementation of services. Thus, there will be one factor in improving or equalizing public access to health services and even more specialized services wherever humans live. Then we are not merely talking about doctors and nurses; we're talking about speech pathologists, psychologists, and others. Then, the electronic public service of health care will be used to increase access to expert knowledge, and it is not only for patients but also for other professionals who may live far away from where experts operate. This should be started and fully started, the manager and the person to conduct this is the Development Centre of the Center of Health, which is operating here in Reykjavík. We hope that the wands will take root in the country. This is to be done in cooperation with health institutions, national components, and individual rural areas throughout the country. In this case there are 140 million dollars, and I could about last night's speech that it wasn't enough money, that it was a color thing, that it took a good deal to set this up, not a lot of money. However, this setting has to be created, i.e. how the arrangements are made and who will care for the ministry. It needs to be defined well. Those who are in the service or who are at the other end of the world do not necessarily have to be in Reykjavík, in Akureyri, or in Isafa, if they are there, they can be in Aklini or Southnes, wherever they are, in foreign lands. It's all a good goal, but I don't think it's much of a turn-in, because according to the proposals of a ministerial group appointed to discuss long - term health care, telepathy, and it's paid off, according to its time plan, their introduction to the full operation of this year. I won't be much of a problem, at least. In my district, which is wide and stony in sections. It has a wide range of agricultural areas and rural areas and would be ideal for the implementation of such solutions. Madam President. In the years to come, all of us are more likely to place greater emphasis on the individual's own home despite the possibility of suffering from disability or impaired motor skills due to age or trauma. You could say that the NPA is an agitator of this and that this support will be provided in a very specific way. We have a rich tradition in Iceland for saving people in institutions. It's kind of poetic, and we need to start turning it around. The generation that is growing up and becoming older citizens within a few years will not provide the solutions that the older citizens of today enjoy. For the reason we have chosen this route, it is not good to say. Why do people from their own homes move to an institution? That, of course, is a challenging question to consider. In a sense, first of all, because of poor health and poor health, it is considered that the individual is unable to live at home; it is an unsatisfactory home; social isolation; and most of all, a lack of security. All of these factors can be worked heavily, unacceptable housing, social isolation can be interrupted in various ways, and insecurity too. These factors can be worked out, and that is what we should do. That is exactly how we can use solutions to do so. With Icelanders, there are many opportunities and opportunities to use them. They're always more successful for the individual, more expectative of you, but a part of life is making a living and working for things. This is also a more practical solution for the overall community. The report that follows this suggests that there is a small island community that should appeal to us with 40,000 inhabitants. It has been through many things, and we should learn from it. This transformation will not be made overnight. We need to adapt to this, we're adapting our clients to this, and we need to train staff at least. Madam President. We're gonna run out of time in a few seconds. This proposal is made well at a turning point, now that we have a discussion at the council proposal for a health - care conference. [[The president calls.]] It is the aim of those who suggest that it will be used directly at the final stage of this policy and become part of an action program that must inevitably follow a new health policy. What a joy it is to have a conquistador of that kind!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u114	Indeed, time had come and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u115	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The godnamming Guðjón of Brjánsson for his speech, and he also wants to use the opportunity to celebrate the coming of this council-sense proposal for discussion, for I am one of the movers. Senator. It is true that a talk presented itself. A senator's failure to succeed in many things, and the senator provided examples from other northern countries of which there are many good things to do. I think he's right. In many other parts of the North countries, people are much longer, even providing people with sophisticated household equipment, sophisticated equipment that they are taught just to help the person to live better and to be able to take better care of themselves. Then, kind of, the question, or rather, that I would like to talk to. A member of the Parliament, and this is: In other countries, where, in most places, communities are responsible for aging services and are also responsible for the management of nursing homes, in contrast to what happens in Iceland, where societal services are the responsibility of the rural society and, on the other hand, the nursing home is the responsibility of the State. I would like to discuss with the senator whether he believes that it is possible that the lack of interest or apathy in Icelandic rural society should resort to technology to a greater degree than they have done may be in some way in which it is not directly possible to claim that it is at least The financial advantage of the local community in providing their clients with equipment because the State will accept them if their communities are no longer able to care for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u116	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson counter. I think it's an onion with the senator. Good point. In this regard, it is just that while it should not be the focus of the affairs, the financial incentives to work on integrated solutions are a small amount of distribution. On the one hand, we have the community service, which is at the hands of a community and the health factor at the hands of the State. Of course, aging services, services to our good and older citizens should be part of the basic community, but of course the elderly get sick, as well as others, and perhaps more so, the nature of the situation, and then the health system takes control. Of course, public social services should be on one hand. The result is that rural society in its community is looking for the best solutions to its senior citizens in the community. But that may be true in this regard, since well. A senator cut it off that we weren't as far away or that we haven't thought about it as much as the North countries, or in many parts of the North countries, let's say. North countries vary from country to country. Technology is a fact of experience, and it works. However, we must not underestimate the introduction to teaching clients how to use it, and especially to help those who work with us, that they make good use of it, and that they see the point of making practical use of it for themselves and for everyone in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u117	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I think we're gonna do what. A senator is in all fundamental agreement with these properties, i.e. how to react. In the second answer, I would like to have the senator discuss more fully what he memorized only in his previous answer, i.e. the nature of living in a nursing home. The Senator knows this as well as I do that the discussion has been that in a nursing home, it's been a long time before. to a large extent, but not to health care. Of course, there are medical services available there, and at times you may need to be available 24 hours a day. The Senator knows that. I would like to wonder with the senator if he could see some aspect of it or recognize an example of developing such a thought a little further, i.e. to define a specific portion, and the expected larger part than some small, of the service of a nursing home as a provisional facility, and perhaps as an intermediate step between giving the communities all of this to themselves, that they will provide them with the part, thereby creating the motivation we're talking about for the communities to try to live better people while they're still at home and to some extent be able to care for themselves through community assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u118	Madam President. Hv. A senator later comes up against him on challenging and delicate matters. Is there a nursing home for housing? I'll let me have that opinion, now, that it's not a farm plan. We also have another form of residence planning. It may be more like a farm plan. We know examples of individuals who have lived in an institution for decades, in nursing homes, and then in a nursing home. We also know the discussion that this is sometimes a bug, a bit different, not money, i.e. to have more and more nursing homes, even at the expense of nursing homes, make it easier for business in relatively small and perhaps unusable business modules. But in recent years, we also know that the prospect of living in nursing homes is constantly shrinking and in many cases less than one year. This is a trend that continues to some extent. Of course, there are limits, but we will work very hard in the future, the community and us together, to live in the best interests of our own. Because of what? A senator asks that we be open to all new solutions. We're supposed to be. That's all we can afford. This group is growing. He may be a participant for a very long time, and we should take advantage of it, not to throw away both the energy and experience that we have done in an excessive amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u119	Madam President. I thank you for the contributions of this council-sounding proposal and, in particular, thank the Halla Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's daughter for reviewing this case and offering it. It's a case that, as mentioned in the Senate hearings earlier, me and the Icelanders have a little shuffled. I want to follow the words of these two fine senators who were here addressing, the Brjánsson S. Shelion, and Ólafur, the Þór of Gunnarsson, to enter into the matter of nursing, and the residence. Well, well-being will help us resolve matters about space. They have been farming resources for people especially from rural areas and require smaller services, but that group will enjoy them when the welfare technology becomes active. This technology exists, as mentioned earlier, but we have not used it as we might have. In the case of nursing and shelterers, nurses are being expelled from the clinic both by rural society and by the state. I'd like to remind you that one community in Iceland that runs a living space of a great variety of films is Akureyri City. The town's nursing home has been expelled, and they have been at the tip of welfare technology, but the one that has started in aging services in Iceland. It's also nice to relate in this context that today's aquifers are the SIMEY, the Eyjafjörður Institute for Education in Health Technology, where members of the community service, from nursing and home care, and other such are entering that study. It is the first study in Iceland and is in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. It's a project that's started. The members of Congress are quite right when they say we've drawn a little bit of foot, Icelanders. Whether this is because it is a service that may be part of a community to provide or not, e.g. such as a home nurse who has a lot to do with the government, there are many opportunities we know we haven't made use of ourselves. That is where the Kingdom is the first party to provide it. Of course, experience groups, such as the Santa Society of Horn fun and Akureyri, have only a short period of time taken care of domestic care and now, in fact, the city of Reykjavík, which is now new in which good things are happening and interesting. This arrangement concludes that a health minister will be assigned to appoint a group that assesses the quality of welfare in the service of older people and those who are disabled. This service can also be useful to long - suffering persons, to rehabilitate persons, and to those who live away from the central ministry. This is thought to increase performance, social involvement, and quality of life, but may also be useful in rehabilitation, exercise, and so forth. The report mentions something about electronic home service and offers examples of projects in the Island of Iceland, which is very good, and it includes the fact that in the coming years older citizens of this country will be very clever. They will probably have some smart tools that they can use and go to any steps that will be safe for this service, etc. We have people on Facebook today who are in their 80's and 90's, who will soon have to adopt this service. There's expectations of using this technology where power is reduced, that's right. Of course, this social element, interacting, and reducing loneliness and so forth, is very important in this context. But this is just what we do today, we're talking at Skype and Facetime and all. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir introduced that it is not the same as ◯LiveHow, but for a large proportion of the people, it is the Facebook Live or the Skype or other such, so the thresholds are falling with each day of this service. What I would like to add to my debate about welfare technology is that when the state is designing a new nursing home or establishing new institutions, the welfare technology is new there. There is an opportunity for the State to enter in well, since the people living in nursing homes today are far weaker than those mentioned earlier, who may have been involved in some kind of farm planning but may have lived for years or even decades in nursing homes. These individuals decrease. It's harder to get employees and other things, and today there are some clever solutions, such as floors, which detect movement and fall and that kind of thing and signal. There is a big opportunity for the state to get handsome in and create a new home that is designed clever solutions that increase the security and quality of life of its inhabitants and make it easier for employees to care for as well. Finally, I would like to reiterate what I entered at the beginning that it is beginning to study welfare technology in Akureyri, and it is very well done with these companies. There has been a key to the welfare of aging services. The study aims to increase knowledge and to improve the ability of those who operate or plan to operate in welfare services and to deal with innovation in the technology of welfare services. Our staff, who serve at home nursing, in social homework, and in aging services, is a sea of ideas, too, in the innovation. The state must develop into and strengthen innovations in this area, for with welfare technology, new practices and new solutions are being introduced, often digital, to help people cope with daily life, improve quality of life, and improve health. A well - thought - out committee is being discussed with the Parliament, and as already noted, it is very good to appear during this period and to be useful with the medical program. I know that's what I'm doing. A well - being committee is a person with productive thinking, and it will likely be able to add to this project. I hope that the conclusion will be that the council proposal will be accepted and appointed to be an employee who will continue to work on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u120	Madam President. I must apologize for having been inaccurate in word selection. Of course you're right. paritaprevir A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir's team to both nursing homes and nursing homes in a few cases is operating in the country, but the funding is in the hands of the government. It is also true that there has been a major film - making aging operation in Akureyri, but Akureyri was on its own, a second member of the two companies who was an experimental project and gave much opportunity. It is unmistakably that the quality of the ministry grew. The Cape of the Hornfjord was the other group. Then, of course, the cost is debated. Of course, all costs. In Akureyri, there is a highly ambitious head of aging services, Halldór Sigurður Guðmundsson, and he knows the pace of welfare, and it will be interesting to observe the progress there. But the truth is, I have this feeling that for a long time he spoke to quite deaf ears in terms of these factors. That's right. That's right. Of course, one of the factors that contributes to our making good use of this means of living is the prospect of man's design. We cannot expect to be able to do what we do today as well as we can. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because it has such insight into this sector, whether it has an example of solutions that are being used in the field of welfare in Iceland today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u121	Thank you. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson for his counter-sponsore. What I find most exciting, anyway, is these motion sensors and monitoring equipment and other things I know the Akureyris have been recording. For example, in nursing homes, in which patients are restless, they have been used by means of the permission of a standard camera mechanism, an monitoring mechanism, to reduce the attack on the individual. I also mention new solutions in crash defenses and motion sensors, not the old electric mats on the floor that people were smart enough to get by, but they can tell whether people will pass through, for example. in the night so that it is not interrupted, there are no frames that can cause falls if people are crossing them. In fact, rural society is right, it may have been a bit of a success in welfare technology that financial support is not enough. It's just that way. But we need to do something better. That's why I think it would be very good for the government to come in here with grants and funding and support to get this thing started. That is why it is also important that this work group be appointed to represent the local community, of course, since this is a very important task.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u122	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Class of K. Gylfadóttir daughter for the answer. I'd like to give an answer to his second and learn only what her experience is about the introduction to welfare solutions. How do employees take it? Do they welcome this? Are they suspicious? How does it picture the development of a staff in aging service by taking in and applying additional solutions in this area? Is it her assessment that there may be a possibility of being on guard against taking them? They are simple and complex, as is the case. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson came in. There are simple and complex solutions, both inexpensive and expensive. A simple house - to - house equipment may cost 10,000 bucks. which is very helpful. I'll let me mention in a quick two - room situation. There is another in the apartments of the elderly. It was a simple procedure among the self - saving inhabitants who lived in a service apartment for the elderly. It was such a system that when they woke up in the morning they went up to the hall and lit a light that was outside their door, there was confirmation that the subject was up and all right. Another example is that I met 25 years ago in Bergen, 25 years ago, think about it. There it was in the service core that if the toilet hadn't been flushed down the toilet before a particular time of the day, a sensor started and the service core answered. There are solutions of any kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-19-67.u123	Madam President. I thank you for the answer to his second one. For staff and welfare services, I think that in general most people are happy to take on new projects and what makes it easier for them to work, but of course, we differ, and when it comes to quality technology, some may imagine some reliefs and such things and become lightheaded. I still think, for example. in a home service where the person has come to need more services, everyone will be more confident if you can keep a closer eye on the person, whether by a signal or by contact through a iPad to talk to him or something like that. I think it's just a good thing. I don't experience it so that the staff in this service are negative in this quality - of - life discussion. Rather, they have ideas of how we can carry on with the projects, e.g. In some institutions, the employee is told that he can perform other tasks and that he does not have to worry about a person. Of course, we also need to make sure that technology can go crazy, and we must always be on our toes. When the alarm is on, it means that the employee can focus more on what he is doing, not on the individual's needs, but on his ability to improve the quality of his technology. I think it's just positive, and it's going to be very fast and good for the service we're already doing.
