ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u2	A respectable president. Of course, 2017 changes in medical management were made, so older citizens and disability never paid more than 49,300 bucks. A year for that service, and children under the age of 18 pay nothing. Medical training was made available to all. This was an excellent campaign and gave weak people who could not afford physical training the opportunity to receive that service, a long - awaited service that has tremendous impact and has increased the incidence of disability, in particular reduced the growth of young people into the disability system. It also had a beneficial effect on post-operative emissions from medical institutions, e.g. efforts to reduce the number of weak people on the list of waitings also affected the physical condition of those who are on the endless wait for action. I wouldn't be in this speech chair if I didn't have access to physical therapy. That's a fact. The provision of physical therapy is the release of Iceland's Medical Insurance and is offered by the health minister. A new dinner system where fishing is a weak person who needs physical therapy and is needed, patients making purchases and sales of physiotherapy markets. Is there something we want, that patients are goods for sale, and that whoever offers an inexpensive package regardless of quality? For economic advantage, quality is offered, and the results will not be good. What is forgotten when we realize how this invitation is being made. Medical therapists will have no information about this. Is the capital area one area? If all medical appointments are made in Reykjavík, will there be an emergency? So, do you have to go to Reykjavík for physical therapy, the Mosfells, the Kopavogians? How should we deal with the tremendous waiting lists that are already after physical therapy? What effect will this have on the system that has already reached its limit of endurance? We know what the situation is in emergency care. We know what the situation is at the hospitals, and I ask a minister: "Is the physical therapy system finally in the right condition to destroy it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. We have previously taken opinions on the importance of physical therapy and have disputed the view that there is a tremendous part in Icelandic health care, as well as on the general musculoskeletal problem, a possible link to reducing the incidence of disability that we have discussed, and I now do not talk about interaction with the use of analgesics. In this discussion, however, I would like to take into account that we, who are involved in the purchase of health care through Iceland's Medical Insurance work by law. That's where we're talking about the health insurance Act in Iceland, the financial laws and the official purchase laws. Thus, we are made up of considerable limits to a ministry that is considerably superior to what is available to financial matters. Therefore, I would like to say that anyone who serves on the basis of such agreements can be clear that those treaties are made on the basis of a law approved at the General Assembly. I want to say what, too. A senator said that it is wrong for him to be able to buy only the amount of physical therapy and not the quality of it. Of course, the provision of quality and security is expected, and especially the availability of the current service. A senator is also concerned if his word on bioavailability is understood, regardless of his residence. I want to make sure of what. A senator's goal is to keep the budget, to base on another law in force in the country, and to provide the best possible service in the most practical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u4	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, but she did not answer the question as to what to eat. How will she ensure that there will be physical training in the entire capital area, Kópavogi, Hafnarfjörður, and Gardavó? How will she make sure that not only those offering the cheapest quality will be? Then there is another serious matter. Medical therapists received only a few weeks, four or five, to answer this, and it should have been submitted by October 1, after two weeks. Why do we not give them more time to sit down with a minister and get answers? They've kept asking for answers from Iceland's Medical Insurance, but they don't get any answers, not one time. They should just run into some outlet that they don't know how to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u5	A respectable president. As shown in my first response, the quality, safety, and availability of the service are required in this issue. Of course, the goal is that the ministry is as good as possible and that it is being rendered to those who need it most. We must do so in all health care. Of course, it is theirs, whether in public or in public institutions, to make sure that they do so. When Iceland's health insurance is committed to making contracts on the basis of tenders, these factors are considered to be involved. At the same time, the service cannot cost more than the help decided by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u6	V.E.G. President. I direct my inquiries to the sea emissary and agricultural ministers. According to the annual reports of Fish Labs, fresh fish exported to containers in 2013 to about 24,000 tons of fish, but in 2018 there were 42,000 tons uninjured. All of us should realize that every step of this country can be won. Has a minister thought about handling this matter? I would like to point out that many jobs in fish processing are lost, not to mention the secondary jobs that are also lost. At a time when a ship sailed by force, or at least Part of that time, pressure was put on those who carried out uncivilized catchs, and it was sure that less was moved out at that time. There is no difference between a ship and a ship. So I ask a minister: Has the minister wondered if he would stop this trend and then how?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u7	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. This is a second time when a similar request is made at short intervals. I always answer the same. I stress that at times we have given a lot of attention to having this freedom in the export of fresh fish. It is clear that much of what now comes into this country has increased to a foreign market, and there are various reasons. Probably most of it is that it is less expensive, indeed in some way, to earn these materials abroad than to us, thus reflecting in terms of increased export. Then questions arise: Is it possible to limit this export and place restrictions on business in a financial way? That's where we come to the problem. It's been tried from time to time, e.g. Under stress on container fish, I have mentioned that in this regard we also need to pay attention to the interests of the sufferers, perhaps primarily sailors who insist on obtaining the highest price for the harvest. Then come the interest of fish farming workers, then the land workers. In fact, I've been a spokesman to try to work as hard as possible at home, but the ways of limiting this are difficult to find. I've requested the Ministry to collect data on this export so that we can better figure out what this is, what kind of species, where it goes, etc. So I'll answer it. Because this matter is considered in the Ministry. I have no specific answers about how best to interfere with the business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u8	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this answer, but I'm going to turn myself into another question on a different subject. It's not about cloning. A spider is struck above the sea level, depending on the state of the sea. The absolute bioavailability of cloning takes place on land after sea level. Thus, fishing costs are now collected from the panorama. They collect charges from the Constitution property, which could be likened to paying a price to pay on the farms and take their hay from them for their livestock. It should be noted that the value of each ton of clover is similar to that of one ton of the clone. It is acceptable to pay a price for a seaside that is truly taken out of the sea, another for the cloning process. Has a seafaring minister wondered about changing the price of entrapment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u9	A respectable president. I'll admit, I haven't thought about making any changes in the currency approved by the General of the Council. Ours, to pay this price for a thong. There are various reasons, but I would have liked to have more experience in the matter before we would discuss some changes in it in a Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u10	A respectable president. The police work may be the most necessary job to believe that a trust in its citizens and that the public has a feeling of integrity and honesty. It is safe to say that much of the morning's interview with the State Marshal Haraldur Johannessenur has been made this weekend when he responds to criticism that has been presented in his work and answers his full heart. He says there about the task force under him whether it will not be time for professionals to consider the cultural elements of the task force. To be honest, it sounds strange to tell you about the head of the department that carries a weapon. Corruption thrives within the police, according to the State Marshal, and he makes it clear that he will say everything he thinks is a reason and not just a traditional conflict between departments and people. This connects him to a problem of discipline that he had to deal with, thus being critical of his main concern. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether these statements by the State Marshal call for special action other than those already under attack. . i.e. The review of a government accountant's office, and then some special action to investigate the police. Could it be that the police authorities in the country are centers of corruption? So, then, what if we do not need to respond? If those words are not valid, do they not need to be addressed when the State Marshal makes unconcerned accusations about the subordinates and members of the police force?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u11	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's responsibility is to establish trust, and it is our task that institutions that provide national security work to the best of all. Regarding the discussion that took place this weekend on the part of the State Marshal, I had a meeting with him today, and these words were especially discussed with him. It is inevitable, when a government official like a police officer describes a corrupt state within the police department as responding. I have discussed this with the State Marshal himself, but I strongly believe that such a case will not be resolved in the media, it will not be solved in the media. There is no evidence that corruption is widespread in the police. It is also important to remember, when this discussion arises, that inside the police is a very important and good job. There has been considerable confidence in the police, and it has been earned by the police by professional and careful practices. This does not change our knowledge of cases that have come on the table of courts, and it is important to deal with them in a legal way. At the same time, there have been recent steps to try to reduce such risks in key institutions, including the police, and we will, of course, continue on that course. The task force sent out a statement, because of what. A senator specifically mentions them, to the Ministry, and thereafter the Ministry decided that the management and communications within the office would be determined. There is treatment, and I expect to get answers from the review as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u12	President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. She speaks of nothing as pointing to widespread corruption within the police. But unfortunately, in the case of the State Marshal himself, the widespread corruption of the police has been observed, and the word is in print, and that is what they say. You have to ask me if anything went between the highest levels. Minister and State Marshal on this corruption, whether or not he has informed Minister anything further about the type of corruption involved and how to handle it. However, in the case of false reasoning, one must ask: " Is the new marshal of the trusted minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u13	A respectable president. The Marshal drew some of his words back in interviews after my meeting today regarding that particular point. I'm telling you again that even though I asked about this, it is important that I conduct a good police surveillance operation, as well as a state police officer. I've started work at the Ministry in an effort to deal with the situation that exists now in consultation with all the members involved. I'm sure these matters will also come up after his interview. It is important that the established state be placed between all institutions, and it is the work that is being done today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u14	Mr. President. Go on about the Marshal of State, Haraldur Johannessenur. I may begin by simply repeating the question as a question. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson noted earlier: A new U.S. Marshal of Trust. Minister of Justice for the moment? V.E.G. The minister of justice discussed it in an unsubstantiated question period just before that she had discussed the words of the State Marshal on corruption at a meeting with him today, but did not reveal his answers in such a way that she noted that he had reduced his words. I read it as the highest interview. A minister is likely to refer, as he said that in general the corrupt police could not be spoken of, he never said. On the other hand, the U.S. Marshal of this multi-talked interview, by permission of a president: Without wanting to mention the events, they can be viewed in the same way - i.e. the record of corruption -- and of those who know what I'm talking about. I've also discussed that being a police officer and being in a private business and even selling equipment to the police or being in a travel service. The fact that police officers are not looking out for their own interests is to be at the root of any doubt. I've been talking about it within the police, and not everyone is happy with my speech. That's what the Marshal in this interview says. I'd like to add my question, if the Marshal has confidence in the Supreme Marshal. Minister of Justice: Did she know of these judgings, and were they discussed at her meeting with the State Marshal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u15	A respectable president. Like other officials and directors and the officials of my institutions, a police officer has confidence. But that does not say that the matter is serious. Is there an unacceptable situation between these members of the police? Yes, and today I explained it at my meeting with him. All that stuff as long as possible. A senator gives special consideration, and I will take them into consideration and follow up on our meeting this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u16	Mr. President. A police commissioner says that there could be corruption in the police department and that he is being criticized for his reign of terror and mismanagement because he is aware of corruption within the police. He says at the same time in the same interview, with President's permission: There is a special interview material in case of retirement on account of these charges. This would call for a second and deeper interview about what has gone behind the scenes. It's under the roof. Minister of Justice accepts that the state police authorities know and speak of corruption within their ranks, without a charge? Without doing anything about it? Does he not have a primary obligation to charge, and has this been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u17	A respectable president. It may be right to point that the Ministry's request to go to the administrative department has already been submitted, and it has already begun. I hope this review gives some clear conclusions. About the second question why? I don't think that's normal, no. So I asked the Marshal about his words and received some answers that I will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u18	Mr. President. By permission of the president, the government covenant of this government states: All future plans need to be done in more detail and with improved communication. The cooperation between groups at the General Assembly must be intensified, strengthening the independence of the Parliament, its management, its professional support, and its position. Now, here in the community for the discussion of a huge investment campaign in the interior of the capital area, an investment campaign of over 100 billion, is said to be, an effort that involves, that is said, six billion additional fees in the capital area before the use of the road system in the capital area, as this campaign has not received any public presentation. The smaller portion is here for the second week to participate in some conversation that has not been addressed to the lesser portion. No introduction for the smaller part has been made, and it is referred to a presentation for the local representative of the same categories that are then committed to the content of this presentation. Is this an example of increased cooperation and careful management of this government when a long - term operation is under attack? Because I assume that over 100 billion internal campaigns, they say, here in the capital area, are due to last for a relatively long time. This government will be a time for cross - political cooperation, but it must, of course, be called upon to require that, in the course of cross - lax consultation, it applies to the ranks of its own administrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. First, I'd like to say, because why not. A senator in general debates over cross - political cooperation, that I have no doubt that there has been more in this term than in all my time at a council of some length of 12 years. The last morning was to introduce the results of a transverse group that represented both a larger section and a smaller part of the team as well as the experts of what I really hope to become new, not only from smaller governments but from the future, with policies on the government, where we look at much broader and more diverse standards than we have been doing here until we break away from the simple measurement of national production, which will certainly remain important, but also look to economic, social, and environmental factors. This is a fine example of a transnational partnership that I am very happy with, and I could mention many more in this chamber, for, as I say here and there, has been no more of this cooperation since I began in the assembly. Whatever it is. A senator points to, quite correct, the development of transport in the capital area that has not yet been introduced. It is quite true, and perhaps the most remarkable thing to observe is a report of something that has not yet been introduced. I have full sympathy for what's happened. A senator, and a what? The members of the board also, for it is really a mad man to express himself about something that has not yet been introduced and that has not yet been decided. I feel sorry for what I'm doing. A senator who understands the pain. The programmes that have been discussed, certainly between government and rural governments in the capital area, are based on what was presented in the European Commission's Committee for Transport when a transport program was prepared earlier this year, which specifically discussed the need to build on the priorities prepared for the capital area when it comes to building public relations and to consider ways to consider a change in currency in the capital area. This has been under discussion. [[The president calls.]] The process must, of course, be introduced; I agree with the what. A senator with that, but it is certainly difficult when the matter is really being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister gives the answer and empathy. It's certainly hard to stand here in the dark. However, this matter seems to have been well discussed and presented within the ranks of the governments. You can find it tangible that when you come up with a discussion about this matter, the members of the administrative committees are very well informed about the details of this case while the lesser part has not been given the slightest introduction to it. This is an important and important issue, according to one estimate, that of 6 billion people each year in the capital area. For example, it is as much as the whole nation pays on carbon pay every year. Such plans must require more extensive consultations and presentations than they are on the move, and I hope that before we see any bills presented on this issue, this government is ready to sit down and discuss these matters on a broader foundation. The transnational discussion within the administration of the government seems to have no agreement on the matter. [[The president calls.]] Then, before taking the matter further, perhaps it would be suggested to take it up and discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u21	Mr. President. I can say with what. A senator that this is a big deal and has to do with not only transport in the capital area but also with the energy exchange in which we have decided to go. Transport will be affected. I feel that there's the big thing in all this discussion, which, of course, has been a little bit out and south, I admit, and I've been watching it like the thrill shows in the past few days. We need to face up to the fact that if we are going to switch into energy, which is a huge climate and also a huge economic situation, we need to reevaluate how we are going to post charges on the road. It's very important, of course, as a whisk. A senator says that before a bill on this is submitted or made decisions about it, there will be a discussion within the council. But it is also natural that more of each time prepared, it is also part of a natural practice when we have majority governments. That's what we've been doing. We've been preparing this case, we've had an active conversation with rural administrations in the capital area, for it really is, but in the spirit laid down in the Committee on Environment and Transportation Committee on the Last Transport Programme. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the matter needs to be properly discussed in the field of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u22	A respectable president. We have come to realize that in the media, emergency services have been involved at the Land Hospital. It is clear that there is a great deal of weight in our work, and despite billions of growths in the Hospital and Health Organization in recent years, we have not been very successful in shortening the waiting list, and the situation in the emergency department is unacceptable. I went there myself this morning and studied the situation, and I met some officers who told me where the shoe would squeeze. It's a flow problem that keeps causing problems. The National Hospital is already closed up with 40 nurses, which are equivalent to nurses at the Southland Institute of Health and the Southnesian Institute. This is primarily the problem and other aspects of the lack of nurses. There is great concern that the nurse's employment will be compromised from what is right now when we need to take other routes, and in fact, we would need to go along with a national agreement to make the nurse's work more attractive, both in the salary and in the remuneration. I'd like to ask the minister what she intends to do to overcome the present emergency that I think, after the conversation I had this morning, that needs to be done right now. This condition in the emergency department calls for action, not mentioned. I'd like to hear what the Minister has to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In December 2018, nearly a year ago, there was comparable news in the media about a serious situation at the emergency department. Then the governor's office took out the situation and made recommendations both to the Hospital and the Ministry for Action. The results of the December report were that patients awaiting hospitalisation would have to wait very long for an emergency department. There were far too many patients at the emergency room at any given time. But the emergency room was successful in fulfilling its emergency role, i.e. The shelf life of those who could go home after treatment was within the criteria, but there was certainly too much stress on the staff, especially the nurses, and the reported events had increased, especially falls, the housing did not support any longer waiting, etc. The problem that was pulled up there was primarily due to two factors as well. A senator here refers to a graduation problem and, on the other hand, a design problem. The follow-up of the assessment is now under way, considering what has happened since the last time. We need to see if something has been dealt with. What the Ministry said may have been opening up more rooms and opening a hospital hotel. That's what we've done since December. We have already added 40 nurses and have opened the hospital that has somehow lifted the flow problem. The graduation problem is still there, and as much as it takes to deal with the design problem, so we've taken some action that I'll take better care of in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u24	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his excellent answers. I would like to remind you that it is considered a normal set of emergency departments, in the northern countries we would like to compare ourselves with, that the services are being performed at approximately 6◯8 hours. They showed me that these days are our 22 - hour period, so we have four times as long. We need to deal with this. I know the Minister is very interested in that. I know we're all very interested in that. I keep up with this morning's presentation and after being on the welfare committee almost uninterrupted since 2013 that we need to focus on the problem of the nurses. I think the problem is world-level, that's what it is. We need to focus on the problem and do all we can to solve it because it is what will make us feel so much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u25	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator, this is a global problem, and in fact, all the care of health care is international. I'm sorry, but it's not only about nursing but it's also for the men of the hospital, and that's why we have to watch this from three points of view, I want to say, maybe first, because the number of people who can start and complete this study, both nurse and hospital studies, and that's why we've cooperated with the Ministry of Education to the Bureau of Education to be submitted to us in December. It is also about those who choose such education to remain in the ministry. I agree with what. A senator's concern is not only on traditional terms and purchases but also on the general working conditions, and we have also established cooperation with the Ministry of finance to review these issues specifically. We need to examine this from a very broad perspective, and we are. I expect the measures to start giving some results, and sooner, the better. But the point is that this is a project that is with them on the top of my magazine and is one of the main points of new identified health care policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u26	Mr. President. As the 1st importer of this case, I would like to use this opportunity to make sure that this request is remanded to the second time, with the goal of maintaining the case on the proper circuit of Congress. The request was adopted on April 10th of October and again on October 9th. Foreign Minister has appointed a team on August 30th of the same year to win the report. The request is made to set up a Norwegian model, but a thorough report was made in that country to indicate that 20 years had passed since the implementation of the EEA Convention. It is appropriate to make a thorough and careful assessment of Iceland's membership into the contract at 25 years after its implementation. I hope that the report will provide a basis for discussion and policy development in the important areas of our being involved in the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u27	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 38/2001, interest and insurance. My importers, this time, are a bad one. Councilmen Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Árnnadódir, Bergþór Birgir, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson and Sigurður Sæmundsson. The bill is moved a second time, since it was not paid for by a recent legislature. This bill expects a change in 14th paragraph. The law, so we're 1st. By permission of the president, three new conferences will be added: Achieving insurance loans with mortgages in housing is a requirement for recalculation to eliminate the effects of changes in indirect taxes and housing teams of the index prices and that the terms of interest are at a greater than 2% per year. Iceland's economist shall have a monthly index, with indirect taxes and housing removed. It is concluded that as many as 25 - year - old loans as credit loans with mortgages in an apartment building have borrowed money. Mr. President. Here, four changes are suggested: The housing team out, the indirect taxes out, the poisonous cocktails out, and the hyperplasia without control in the absence of any foreign growth, or the lack of adequate competition. The objective of the bill and the changes presented here on law No. 38/2001, on terms of growth and insurance insurance, is trying to balance the contract's status on securable loans to purchase apartment housing and provide a more reasonable amount of loans to finance their homes than this one has offered. This bill is a factor in implementing the Central Party policy of renewing the financial system in this country, bringing it into the modern world, and particularly bringing back a new system for financing the mortgage. Now, you'd like to see behind the arrangement insurance that's been here for way too long. I am aware of the situation here at the General Assembly, where there is obviously no majority desire for decommission of that arrangement, and it is sought to do so more readily for those who are weaker in the contract relationship, i.e. for individual and home use. Since this proposal was made last year, Mr. President, it has occurred that the government has in a declaration of progressive decommissioning insurance published in connection with the so - called biographies contracts of a general labour market, under some of the fundamentals of the bill. Especially is the declaration that the toxic cocktail will be taken out as well as the housing team. The toxic cocktail is the so - called anetite loan to over 40 years of age, since the borrower does not assume to pay on the bank's head seat, according to the rules of the loan, until, first, after 20 years of credit. Hence, this loan has been borrowed in a general discussion. The declaration agrees with the government that this poisonous cocktail will be taken out and placed. As a result, I would especially like to welcome as well as recognition in the declaration of the problem as a systematic measure error up to the creditors. No one needs to mix with the thought that the parties in the credit trade have equal positions, especially because of different financial advantages, where there is considerable but just as much difference between parties is involved when it comes to knowledge of financial matters. Betrayal loans are not simple in nature. Banks and credit institutions have far more knowledge of financial markets and of the factors that can affect the development of prices and purchases and thus on credit rates than on the entire population. The 2008 financial collapse, along with the fall of inflation, is still a fresh memory, as well as the effects of what happened on the punitive loans of the households, with dire consequences for the land's homes and for the benefit of families. Hence, there is plenty of material to take to equalize the vast difference between the parties of such loan agreements. This bill is designed to play a role in this purpose. The subject of the bill, as I mentioned, is basically four. I'll take for one by one. For one thing, insurance is a means of dealing with the effects of overall prices that are to be attributed to the fall of the crown in such cases. It should be realized that such price change is anything but the price change that results from the government's specific actions that result in changing prices, such as building an increase in indirect taxes when it comes to alcohol, tobacco, gasoline - we know the value of carbon, etc. The specific actions, as I was referring to and determined by the government, do not fall under the general definition of inflation, but inflation is a natural term of what is essentially the price of money that produces general prices. What is most appropriate here are government decisions that focus on the acquisition of a government fund, as I mentioned, and here I have given some examples of this. Mr. President. There is no material to lend credit to the lenders, according to the way they manage their stores, which are designed to cover tax increases in the public service and to have the nature of the situation. The same applies to tax laws aimed at achieving certain social goals, e.g. with a set of health and loyalty-to-target categories and fuels, as shown by the carbon account, to fulfill the objectives of global commitments in climate change. There is no evidence that such charges are added to the borrowers of insurance mortgage loans by raising the headlamps of these loans and adding down their payments, and there are also no material, Mr. President, that financial institutions develop in this way, by means of governments who are pursuing some social objective, funding some action in the development of indirect taxes, or with certain taxes designed to influence the consumption of people, new demands on their homes, and that they have in the same way, as the fact, the entire right force of the system of justice behind them at the time of debt. Second, Mr. President, it has been observed that in recent years the so - called index value of consumer prices, which do not rely on any agreed international standard, has resulted in a much greater rise in the ossuary and payments of prices on loans than the general price increase in the country has. Thus, financial and economic secretary has informed, in response to a request from the one currently available, that over a five-year period, 2012•2017, the benefits of an apartment loan due to a general cost of 15 billion dollars have been studied. but at the same time, 118 billion people fell on the price - secure mortgage as a result of the influence of indexing teams. Put it together, huh? Senators and others who hear my case, 15 billion because of general prices and 118 billion because of the housing team. The share of the retail price is 88.7%, up to 90%, in other words, to be maintained. It may be claimed that a corresponding property transfer, Mr. President, from borrowers to financial institutions would not be tolerated or assembled in neighboring countries of Iceland. The difference in index prices with and without housing was relative in 2013 while the largest 2017 when the index price for consumers without housing was substantially negative, resulting in short-term prices in Iceland, at least from the middle of 2016, except for the index case. In recent years, the creditors have not enjoyed the beneficial price of development that has been under way. Rather, their housing has resulted in their overcrowding, as I believe, that it is safe to say. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson and other members of the Council proposed to the 148th legislation of the index to calculate the price-settling loans, but it did not succeed. However, it should be noted that no. 17/148 on the workgroup stipulation criteria for insurance, including the components of the index. In fact, the group of people has given a reputation, but this figure has not been given any discussion anywhere so that I have seen, either in the media or here at the General Assembly. If it's all the material to discuss the results of this service group, Mr. President, The bill specified here states that due to the factors listed above, indirect taxes and housing teams of the index, the National Institute of Economics will be assigned to publish an index of consumer prices, where their influence has been eliminated. Then you should use that index to calculate the amount of money you can make from the value of your apartment loans. The third factor, Mr. President, laid out in the bill is that when an apartment loan is in the form of a securable equivalent loan, the one in foreign languages, and in its own language called annuit, the loan period may not be longer than 25 years. This proposal has already been made, and it was through a bill at the 145th legislature of 2015-2016, such as the 817th case, on the basis of this proposal. 1537. That bill was made up in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and was guided by the views presented in a report by a panel of experts on disintegration insurance of consumer loans from January 2014. The bill suggested that the consumers would generally be forbidden to lend as long as 25 - year credit loans with the exception of young people, less income loans, and less - paying loans. In other respects, I refer to the report on that bill as being done in a paper with this bill. This loan, this 40-year credit loan, has at least a minimum of Long ago, the most common apartment loan to Icelandic homes. According to one report, the payment rate on these loans is lower than on loans, but because the price paid by the ossuaries, a large portion of the loan time and the more inflation is increased. The nature of these loans, however, makes it possible for all payments to be paid during the first two decades of credit time to increase the main position. We're talking about at least 20 years, if prices rise. No wonder, Mr. President, this loan in the case of humans was called a poisonous cocktail. In this administrative bill, which I learned from Council 145 of Justice, the regulations of the bill are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland and international commitments, such as the European Convention of Human Rights. There it says that the limit to freedom of the contract that the bill holds is part of an effort to improve the quality of home loans and reduce the value of insurance insurance on the real estate market. In this statement, an interesting recognition that the nature of insurance on the mortgage market is in a way that from a point of view the improved habitats of mortgage loans are material to reduce this importance. In addition, the bill cited here says that there have been some of the counterarguments proposed by the experts and that the circumstances in the economy are in place to comply with his proposals, thus preventing us from paying long - term financial bills. I think it is safe to adopt this proposal from the Management Board from the 145th Court in this bill, Mr. President, because it cannot be seen that these circumstances are changed to the economy from what was just a few years ago that the same views are not applicable as the above. A fourth point, Mr. President, is proposed to make a change in order to equalize the very inequities between borrowers and consumers when it comes to financing apartment loans will require that interest from the price-separated mortgages should not exceed 2% per year. Presumptuous agreements - and this point should be taken very closely - have been determined in the market conditions, which are more often than shown to be in the absence of competition than competition. These decisions are defined by their lack of support for an international comparison, for similar commitments are not found in the neighboring countries of Iceland. The central point of the subject is that these growths have been determined without any decision-making, except by international agreements, and then these decisions are made in a sort of void in that no foreign models or parallels are to be used. It is different with the growth of irresponsible commitments. While there may not be some overhauling competition between financial institutions in those areas, there are at least interest in such commitments. so that they can be compared with comparable growth abroad. Then there is the ability to increase the level of securable commitments on the head, which is constantly changing. He's got a running value, he's not stuck, he's changing all the time. Actually, he's growing up all the time. This position differs from normal loan bonds where a head chair is fixed to the size of the entire loan, except for the cities. It's the arrangement for getting used to in our part of the world and, in fact, in most of the world, although Iceland's Sedlabankis has ever felt that they found an analogy in Central or South America, including the U.S.A. correspondent in Uruguay As a result of changing the risk between parties, it is in the case of financial loans that lend all responsibility for the price of the contract period. I reiterate, Mr. President, the borrower takes all the responsibility for the price of the contract period, all responsibility for the price of any roots they may have. This includes a guarantee of a creditor who, at least, has considerable economic advantages, and borrowing of his assets, and not just his property, but his ability to live up to this commitment that is unknown to other people in neighboring countries when it comes to mortgages. The commitment of borrowing is so far off in this respect that it also includes special extra payments in excess of prices, extra payments that result from a systematic failure that I made as a subject of the past and as a subject of the government's declaration in connection with the biographies. However, this systematic demonstration of error, Mr. President, has been called an index book. There is a width of the index for systematic reasons, leading to an increase in the index and, of course, the weight of the payer of these loans and the head seat rising. The problem with the risk of overassessment, of this systematic overassessment, is well known. Considering that insured debts allow high rates of 2,000 billion dollars to be exacted. The meaning of such index book ranges from 0.3% to e.g. 1.5%. According to scholars, the index of consumer prices includes the annual overassessments for these technical reasons alone. And this overestablishment, based on these observations on the potential amount of this calculus, runs at billions of dollars, and even hundreds of millions of dollars. I'm glad that the government has listened to these views and that it makes the viewpoint of the subject in its declaration with a promise to have this issue examined specifically. Of course, financial contributions between the lenders of these loans must be considered as if of any other property transfers between parties, as well as of those that are mentioned earlier loans, must be looked upon as if it is required by the creditors, by those who have acquired an apartment, because higher taxes are on government goals to apply themselves at each time, whether it is to finance an assignment or to pursue the goals of the climate on the basis of the agreement from Paris - the borrowers are to compensate for the rise to others, as well as the rate of taxes, or in general, that they should not distribute in all, and should not be lent to any other people, who are to be lent for the financial expenses of the family, family and children, children and children. Then there are those people who are supposed to make up for the fact that the government is here using some action to increase tax issues. With regard to the index case or the systemic error, it is possible to add borrowing to creditors'credit will carry all the risks of the error. Finally, it must be noted that if a financial loan with a pledge in an apartment house, it must be counted among the most secure possessions in every holding office if a bond of authority is held out by public authorities. In view of the great guarantee that a creditor enjoys the value of a head strategist's value on prices and security that he also enjoys, such loans may be less successful than in general, in view of the fact that loans are usually given to some of the value of housing at the start of a loan. Have creditors there boarded and protected against the price of housing that has been mortgaged for the loan. In addition to housing mortgages, a borrower, as mentioned earlier, provides his means of mortgageing, and may well have been tested by a borrower who may have paid after leaving his apartment home. The experience in this country does not seem to indicate that the above factors have weighed heavily on the decision for the growth of securable loans or that the perspective on average honor has always been shown. Are for these reasons full of material to bind interest on such loans with mortgages at the maximum recommended rate of 2% per year. The question is, How is this figure given? The answer is: This figure, Mr. President, is supported by common guidelines for growth and prosperity in the long term. It has been 40 years since insurance became a regular business exchange for individuals in this country. She came in when the inflation was as hard as when the landscapes of money and loans were completely different from what has happened later. An organized market for bonds had been observed, a stock market heard the future, financial exchange with abroad was limited, and trade between countries with stock markets unknown. Modern financial institutions, offering a wide range of services in the pursuit of wealth and sharing, were out of the question. In these conditions, where markets and financial institutions were not established for the implementation of conventional money measures that have subsequently developed against inflation, economics were binding to indexes. It was a challenge, it was 40 years ago. But it is then, Mr. President, that such a approach is more of a mechanical approach. Economic life is similar and variable, has organic properties that do not have machines and trips and cogs. When all the other factors have developed since what was true 40 years ago, as has now been the case with the application of financial measures and because of the operation of government funds to deal with such issues as inflation and other such, emergency measures taken under all other circumstances must be taken, such as insurance that has never been obtained in our part of the world and that there would be no tolerance or team in neighboring countries, Mr. President. Mr. President. The bill suggests that the position of the parties in treaties of the type of contracts that have been made here will be slightly equaled. Of course, it might be possible to go much further. This is an effort to make a suggestion that is likely to have greater support than would have left out insurance in the council halls. We must not spade indefinitely in these wheels. This insurance system is inherently, in its inner nature, unjust because it leans upon the weak person. There's no equal in such a loan relationship. The Government itself has shown this by its declaration in relation to the collective agreements, which it calls the Government's declaration of decisive steps for decommissioning insurance, and is the most important document and, in fact, a turning point because it may be the first time on the part of governments to make proposals for significant action, such as two of the proposals in this bill testify to, i.e. On the other hand, the toxic cocktail and the housing team. What is not done, however, is the influence of indirect taxes, but it is not the result of a talker's declaration. The creditors will continue to make up for the tax imposed on everyone. And that is not to say that such materials are intended to bind this growth. There is no special joy in speaking to those in the Senate Hall not to bind interest. The common rule is that the price in the country should be free - but then there must be a basis for it. There are two economics that go through the entire economy, that's the interest, and that's the deal. We have a special type of interest, which are the so - called interest rates of inflatable loans, and there are special views, as I have done in detail here. The second view is that they are determined under conditions where competition is entirely inadequate; it is more characterized by a lack of competition. You can only study this, it's very well known in your seeds; and then these growths are determined in a void, in which you cannot compare yourself with any foreign analogy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. This is an interesting bill that can be discussed for a long time. It's like you heard from a talk or something. There is much to consider. I can't say I'm against the bill, but I'm not entirely convinced that I agree completely with it either. I find a lot of things in there novelly like putting on a name you know, on the credit of 2%. Not necessarily a crazy idea, I would say, from the same reasoning as that. A senator mentioned, but the thing that makes me doubt the very advantage of accepting this matter is taking the mortgage out of the insurance bill at this point. As we saw in the collapse, we find the Secret Bank's comments to the same subject when last received, as well as similar comments previously delivered, including the wind. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, has a high-level housing tendency to increase much faster than prices when things are going well in the economy, economic growth is sustained, and inflation is low. That is exactly what we have seen in the last years of good health. As a result, people start to see that if the mortgage wasn't in there, the loans wouldn't go up that much. On the other hand, the immediate opposite is happening in a shock, as was the case with 2008◯2009 and is now taking place. Although we are not experiencing a collapse, real - estate market is certainly cold and prices are going down if something is, at least it's not going up. Under such circumstances, it is difficult for borrowers not to have the mortgage inside. In other words, under the circumstances that were in the crash, and we are entering now, the mortgage is affecting the index. I'm worried that if we were to legalize this bill right now, we would be making the borrowers happy if the goal was to hold back their loans, because of the timing, not because of the nature of the case in themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he appreciates it. A senator says he seems ready to discuss this matter in a calm and...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u30	Love.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u31	Cmax: ↔ You can totally agree with that. A senator may vary in his economic situation, as he did in the matter. He specifically mentioned the collapse of 2008◯2009, which was naturally a unique situation so that it is far equal. In general, such decisions cannot be determined against the financial and economic systems. The main project there is, and over the past few years, major steps have been taken in that direction to prevent it from developing an increased level of surveillance and a variety of factors that depend on what is called a national response. I want to point it to what I want. One senator wondered about a world of imagination based on the presupposed insurance policy that is natural and fundamental. It is not normal, and it should not be fundamental. The issue is to be discussed in particular in our neighboring countries, since it is a system that happens and walks in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to take better time to talk to each other. A senator on insurance, but we don't agree that much, at least not in terms of it. A senator said here; she's unnatural and all that. This does not mean, however, that any solution to the problem we are trying to solve is good. Criticism that I have seen in the indexing list of insurance bills is primarily that it is not a problem for consumers, but it is a financial failure for the creditors. If it's the problem we're trying to fix, I don't think this bill will be fixed at this point, but it will be done worse. This is actually the worst possible timing. The best time could have been at the end of the so-called collapse, i.e. When we were getting some kind of balance in our economy. That would have been a good time, because the mortgage would have had an inhibitory effect on the index at that time, while the mortgage was holding it back. But when the housing team began going up faster than in general prices, it began to take more than that - at the beginning of that period, it would have been a good time to do this. Then we'd have been doing the lenders a favor. Then we would have been fixing the problem that consumers' loans were going up. We don't solve that problem by fixing it here and now because right now we're seeing the cold in a housing market. In fact, I feel safe to say that if there were no more impressive defenses on the Secret Bank, which, of course, have some limitations in the future, would be higher in this case. I feel like this is a bad time right now. It's all about what it's like. A senator said that normal state and normal interest calculations are a lot of things in economics that I would put under that hat, including insurance. But as I say, it doesn't make me feel that every solution we make is good automatically, just because we think insurance is abnormal, even if we agree on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u33	Mr. President. It has not been demonstrated that this time is anything unacceptable to eliminate or remove this housing from the calculations. I reiterate the figures I could about, which are official figures and appeared in reply to the highest degree. The financial and economic secretary for my inquiry, that between 2012 and2017, housing team 118 billion on top of the mortgage, but the general price change in the country had the effect of placing 15 billion on apartment loans. These figures speak for themselves, but I have a clear understanding that those who want to hold on to this system believe that there is no time to disappear. [[Up front.]] Mr. President. This bill includes what I'm going to allow me to call a application to the insurance policy of all four different directions, and it's certainly about time. With that. A senator referred to the reviews I'm going to allow me to say that at the end of the last council, I was disappointed to learn that the review from the Federal Bank meant nothing more than to reimburse older comments. This matter involves new viewpoints and new arguments that I believe the Office is obliged to discuss objectively and in an enlightened way. Let me hope that good and helpful comments can spread on this subject. This matter has been changed completely from last year's, this four - part visit. Two teams have been supported by the government and are just moving forward with regard to their implementation and then moving forward with regard to the other two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u34	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws. This has been suggested before the last assembly, and I have been one of the partners with what they needed to do. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. For decades, the public in this country has had to live in bondage insurance and hair interest on their mortgages. The professional invention of insurance insurance was passed into law 40 years ago. As an authority introduced it, Iceland had a very different economic situation. The circumstances have changed, indeed, for some ways in which people can increase their money, thus preventing them from detriment, but their insurance remains. Then there was no financial market in this country, but we still live under the insurance policy. At that time, the late bank had not had a money policy for the time being. Still, we still live in insurance. There were no stock markets that could be called that way, but we still live in the insurance market, although today there is a much more developed stock market than there was then. There was no bond market, so it could be, but we still live under the insurance policy. There was this obscenity, about a hundred percent, but for the past few years, inflation has been reported to be less than three, four percent, but we still live under insurance. At that time, there was much instability, the oil crisis had overrun the world's financial systems, but now there is a relatively stable environment of financial markets and has been a long time, but we still enjoy the insurance. In the beginning, the prerequisite of insurance was to protect money assets that people and creditors had at that time no other means of defending. The reasons are gone, but we still live in the insurance business. Me and the Icelanders are the only people with this specially designed formula called insurance, and the formula takes into account various factors that are not associated with the financial environment as it might be called. Thus, an object such as loss of property on the most important and vastest construction site could have a dramatic impact on the insurance market, thus making sums of money that people out of the country and people out of the country have no control over the experiences of the past few years. Here in Reykjavík, there has been a continuing loss of property over the past few years affecting the rise in apartment prices, which, in turn, affects the index, which then raises the loans of all who have a securable mortgage and they owe more. Mr. President. Government decision to tax, e.g. it is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to carry out their duties under international agreements that affect the insurance policy because it has an indirect effect on the index that increases it and thereby raises the loans of all the citizens of the country who owe a debt of mortgages. A simple thing like the decision of this legislature to raise carbon pay increases the debt of all who owe a mortgage. So where are we? Such changes result in the high prices of the entire population's housing loans rising to over tens of hundreds of billions, as in the case of housing, over 100 billion. That's the situation, Mr. President. We have a contract. You take a loan from a bank. The story begins with going to a bank and borrowing. These are the parties, this man and the bank. A borrower promises to repay the loan with interest and compensation. Then comes a third party. If a third party offers weights in an important area, the loan that the man took goes up. If a third party is a administrative authority who decides to raise environmental taxes in order to carry out his international commitments, this loan goes up completely without linking with the agreement made by these two parties. One party owes more and the other gets more without anything real that should affect the debt between the two parties, the bank, and the debtor. There is a big difference between the two parties, another is guaranteed in the back and behind, having some kind of cash policy, as one person has mentioned this situation. He's a hot-ass hot-collaby for all changes. He just leans back in his seat and waits. The civilian taking the loan takes all the risks of the contract relationship. The money comes as if on an assembly line, and the conveyor belt is moved, because we're talking so much about energy, some kind of long-term energy. It just flows, it's eternal energy, money slips in to one of the two parties who made a deal to lend money and the other promised to pay them back. Then there's only a special delivery line that brings money from one person to the other. It's not difficult, Mr. President, to run a bank in such a situation. It's not hard for the banks to have an eternal bond of energy which is never lost, Mr. President, because the debt is in debt to the depositors. Insecure crowns, Mr. President, are not as regular dollars. When borrowing foreign coins, they were unable to know what they would pay back. They received their pay in Icelandic crowns, and they did not have any suspicion of whether the foreign coins they owed would go up or down, which went away. It's like this, it's completely out of touch with the average Icelandic crown we know. We get our salary in it, but the money money money can swing, as I mentioned earlier, after lack of weight, Mr. President. The parties, one is an ordinary person, maybe a housewife, but the other is a powerful banking agency. Like what? A driver mentioned the situation of these parties in a very uneven manner. I haven't been at a council for a long time, but before I started my job here, I remember that the political parties, more or less, all the political parties that have been here, have regularly promised to vote to cut off the insurance. What keeps this promise from being said, Mr. President? When is this going to stop? When will the legislature get the courage to eliminate the horrors of insurance? This bill, Mr. President, includes four changes in growth and insurance laws. This is not to say that insurance would be forbidden. Rather, it would be used as a fence. A senator mentioned, that would be an application against the insurance policy, i.e. that indirect taxes are taken from the calculation of the index, such as The carbon tax I mentioned earlier. Second, like what I mentioned earlier on the rise of apartment prices because of the completely unpredictable and unexpected, even political, events such as we know of in the capital area where housing loans have increased by over 100 billion in a few years. Third, interest in these loans would not be higher than 2%, and fourth, the guarantee of equal payment loans in an apartment house could not be longer than 25 years old. I hope, Mr. President, this bill will have a perennial discussion and a future good discussion on a relevant committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u35	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Forebearance of the Ólafur of Ísleifsson, it is a very important matter for all the people of the land. If this bill becomes legal, it's the benefit of everyone and it's very important that we do. We know, Mr. President, that the public in Iceland has been in bondage to insurance and hair interest on the mortgages for years. Here in general there are much higher than in our neighboring countries, and there is no need to go beyond the Faeroe Islands to get decent housing -- let's put it that way. Price insurance was put on for about a year ago. As we have seen, the economic situation in Iceland was quite different from that of today. There was a reason why insurance was set in its time, inflation was high, and economic conditions were bad. Inflation occurred at around the end of the day. 60% when insurance and economic instability were imposed. Today, we live as we do today in a very different situation. Inflation is just below 3%. The economy is a place of stability, a positive one. Each situation today tells us that if we compare insurance with the time when insurance would be put on, insurance would be inappropriate. Still, we still live in insurance. This program has repeatedly discussed the importance of reducing the value of price insurance on the Icelandic financial market. Political groups regularly promise, especially in the end of elections, to eliminate insurance, to reduce its impact, but to the extent that there is little to it, and it is unfortunate. Today, growth in Iceland is relatively low in historical context, but it is very high if we compare ourselves with neighboring countries when it comes to housing. The United Nations must unite to change this so that young people can have homes without being in debt decades after buying their first place. In fact, I believe that there was only a lack of considerable boldness and impenetrableness to eliminate the insurance policy. I think politicians are afraid to take that step. They may consult with some counselors who recommend this, however, when you look at it in a historical setting, it is clear that circumstances are quite different today - and there is sufficient evidence to eliminate the insurance. So this bill, to which I am a co-smooth, is very important and sensible to reduce the value of insurance. In a paper with the bill on page 18. 4 is an interesting consideration of the index of consumer prices. It is generally recognized that the index of consumer prices overrated general prices. However, this overevaluation may cost the home owners and the deserving ones a substantial loan that is believed to be between 5 ◯25 billion, based on the commitment of their homes'debt to a total of 1,700 billion, as shown in the report. This error, and this overmuch, the lenders, and the houses of the land, have to bear and pay. This is simply an increase in homes'debt in a very questionable way. What is justified in paying attention to measurements of borrowers? This case has been given way too little attention, and I'd like to thank the company commander of the bill, Dr. Ólafur Ísleifsson, especially for bringing this matter to the attention. You ask yourself: " Why is there no consideration for this misdemeanor on the part of the lenders, the banks, the camp loans? This is a clean, completed system of property, and some would call it stealing, as it were, Mr. President. This is an error and, of course, the borrower's error rather than the borrower. Most of the studies performed with total chromatography in index assays suggest that it is positive and indexing overactivity, therefore, inflation. Never do these misdemeanors underestimate the inflation and creditors of my city. It may be a strange coincidence that this is not the case. But this is a serious matter for the public in Iceland who lives in the bond of insurance and has been described here. I think it's important to do more research on this subject, overassessment of the index, because it's about great interests and concerns most people. It is important to make a thorough assessment of the index price used in Iceland for assessment of total levels. This study will ensure more precise measurement of the index, and it is very important to be allowed. It is important that such an overall index-level defect study should be conducted so that the results become reliable and neutral so that they are generally accepted. This is a case that has, as I said before, not gone high, been kind of hidden, so to speak, but can have tremendous influence. It may be noted here that the U.S. Senate's Senate has examined the role of an index consumer price in the State's welfare system to provide suggestions on what might be done better. The results of an interesting conclusion were that the increase in the demand for services and quality, etc. is likely to be greater today due to the numbers of economic innovations, more technological development, and more demand for services and quality. which all make index measurements more complex. The newcomers were previously taken into the index with a much greater delay, so to speak, but they walk and happen today. In many cases, much of the households were generally used before they became the basis for the index price of consumers. It is a great weakness in the index that she does not take into account the fact that consumers tend to shop less expensively in value and more products that have become more affordable. Most studies in the United States have shown that total error in index measurements suggests that it is positive, and the indicator counts are overemphasic, as mentioned earlier. And over time, the pattern of consumption changes. The base measured by the index stops reflecting the composition. So the forces measuring this level need to be adjusted and adjusted regularly because of the composition. We're getting very little information about how regularly this is updated here. The types of products are called sample scans. Price information is collected regularly as we know little about when the scales, i.e. The index, which then results in an increase in the value of loans, is actually assessed. When we buy fuel at a gas station, it is a perfect computer device that measures the amount of money we buy and pumps the car. This equipment is very regularly checked by a law firm. We are confident that we will receive the quantity of money we pay for. Of course, the oil companies do not want to give us more than we pay. It's never gonna happen. It's a good fit. Because it's a device that measures this. However, when the indexing equipment measures too high, as studies have shown, it is the common population who should pay it in the form of updating loans. This involves a terrible injustice. It's just that simple. Real estate loans, in turn, are the most loyal loans you can make. In general, the quality of property is considered to be the best, and according to the report on the bill, the standard risk-benefit criteria should lead to lower rates of such loans than in general, in view of the high insurance that the borrower is enjoying the value of the head position and the security of the restoration of head chairs. According to this, the lender is absolutely certain that he will get everything back. I'd like to agree with what is presented in the report, and unfortunately, there is no consideration for the massive insurance available to the borrowing mortgage, i.e. that the bet is secure, and then there is insurance on top of everything, the interest, so the creditor is absolutely safe. If there is any risk, change in economics, inflation, error in the index, etc., it's always the borrower, the owner of the apartment, who needs to carry that risk and it's not fair, Mr. President. When we look at the discrepancies that I mentioned, which may represent a substantial amount, it is a crying unfairness in the need for borrowers to carry it. In other words, it is a classic example of the great difference between borrowing and borrowing in Iceland. We must here in this room unite to change this. Now is the dominant economic situation, and has been for some time, recommending that we can handle insurance, the lesion we all know, and the practice of almost nowhere based, especially in our neighboring countries. Finally, Mr President, this is a very important bill for the homes of the country. It's very well done, and we Middle-class people are proud to be able to handle this bill. It follows a detailed report that is primarily evidence of the knowledge and understanding of the one who has earned it, the first transporter, ere. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. I'm actually celebrating the bill, and I agree with what's been presented here. I hope that there will be widespread support at the council and will be law for the benefit of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u36	Mr. President. I thank those who have participated in the discussion today and those who have been listening to it for more or less. Price insurance has lasted way too long here in Iceland - for 40 years. It came to be a puzzle in 1979, in the government of Ólafur the late son of Jóhannesson. It is under the law of the Government of the Economics and Other Things, No. 13/1979, and have dug deep into financial life and in the mind of many people, as some might hear, especially one back. A senator who remembers nothing more than that. But insurance isn't like Esjan. The Esseker is here, and she's not going anywhere, but insurance is a man's job. It's a man's chance to decide it's going. And why is she supposed to go? That's because she's not welcome. She is unrighteous in nature. It leans on the person in the contract that has the weaker situation. The exchange of risks means that all risks due to change in prices are put on the weaker party in the contract relationship. This, including, has been demonstrated since then. of scholars - and this is a subject studied in international literature - that this type of indicator produces a weakness that lies in the system itself. This weakness, as I mentioned, has sometimes been called an index box. The less lenient, the weaker party in the contract, is the risk of this system-based error. Based on the fact that we have the size of that mismanagement, as assessed by established scholars at the international level, the figures that have been placed on the homes due to systematic error each year may run into billions, if not tens of millions of dollars. See the indifference toward homes when faced with facts, such as those expressed in reply to the highest degree. Budget and economic secretary in the inquiry from the person mentioned here on the increase in the burden of home housing of the index number between 2012 and 2017? The highest answer. A minister, a good job, and a good job, was that while the country's general prices could have provided a basis for the mortgage to improve 15 billion because of changes in general prices, those commonly called inflation, the housing crew has dropped to 118 billion. These are so large, Mr. President, that maybe they're somehow beyond the imagination of ordinary people. However, those taking responsibility for the government and for public affairs cannot afford to overlook such figures. I rejoice, Mr. President, that the government has, in connection with the so - called biographies agreements, issued the declaration I made as a subject of my first speech, on progressive steps to dissociate insurance. I don't think there's any human being who's hiding that a statement has come up with a hard-on for a new task force in the labor force. Then I'm specifically talking about the German Union and the leaders of the important union. Thanks to their hard work, their hard work, and their energy, they have achieved the success of the government's recording of two of the four points of this bill, i.e. The host and the poisonous cocktail, on the other hand. The toxic cocktails are 40 years annuits, which are the natural loans, although 20 years have been paid, the head chair does not drop by a dollar, but it can increase. Can you imagine how such an arrangement would be handled in neighboring lands? In fact, some years ago I had the opportunity to discuss this with foreign journalists. What the German journalist told me is memorable. He said: "If it were that way for us, we'd have built a street building. The Dutch journalist had similar words. Denmark has a very deep - seated structure structure for the mortgages. They have institutions that are very stable, have long served in Danish society, and are considered very important there. They teach organizations in their language at ◯Realkoldit. I allow me to suggest that we fully study ourselves, especially the governments, the activities of this institution, and look into them as role models. Sometimes you have an opportunity to talk to young people who have settled in Denmark. The joy of the people over the standard of living there, especially young people with families, when it comes to financing houses. These people don't want to come here in an ice - cold, insurance business, where people are so tough on the edge of a financial crisis during the loan season. Mr. President. This bill is pronounced by all members of the Central Party. Interestingly, other political groups at the General Assembly have shown no particular determination regarding the insurance policy. In fact, some political groups have described it and do not agree that insurance is inevitable in Icelandic society while we are not fully involved in the European Union and have adopted the euro. It's fine that people only know about it, and they haven't been in a den of credit, and that's honest about them. Mr. President. I reiterate what I said, that this bill is all to itself in its core not complicated. Here, four simple items are taken up to provide the price - insurance arrangement for the continuation that it has not had for a long time. These factors include: The lack of indirect taxes is not calculated into the index. To illustrate: The fact that the government will become a member of a climate convention in Paris and then decide to set aside so - called carbon bills to achieve climate goals does not lead to extra burden on people who allow themselves to buy homes for the family, the parents, and the children to have a roof over their heads. What makes a person feel that such an arrangement can be a normal one? On the one hand, the bill includes that the housing team - the home and no support of any foreign models - is walking across important models that we might look at in Sweden and Canada - is leaving the index. I repeat, I'm glad the government agrees. Third, when a loan is started for the first 20 years of 40 years, the head chair does not reduce the loan's value but goes up, if there are rising prices in the season. And at last, a roof is to be put on, and there is no logic, as I have previously thoroughly explained, by making decisions about that growth taken under the conditions of a few competition. This will be the end of a monopoly, if it is to be replaced, due to a kind of cooperation. Although there is no formal cooperation, there is not much room for mutual understanding, which leads to similar conclusions, such as monopoly. On the one hand, this and the other, that the growth of securities is determined in the void of foreign role models. It's natural, and it's unsurpassed. The core point in this case is that this system, apart from being a weak engineering experiment to deal with a subject in the organic, quick economy, is unjust, as experience so clearly shows. That's not fair. This system must be removed. We can do better than that. We are to admit that progress has been made in Iceland. The economy is unrecognizable. National society is unrecognizable. He is far more numerous and stronger than he was 40 years ago. The financial and money system is completely unrecognizable. We have a number of institutions that can carry out projects regarding growth and the sharing of funds. It doesn't matter, Mr. President, that we live in a home-based system that nowhere else else would be tolerated or felt, after we have made such progress in our national development, in our economic and financial affairs, but this one remains. This must be removed, and sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u37	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, i.e. up the pension. Transporters are all members of the United States Congress. In 1st. That we may make provision for a provision in the law, and add to the new number, saying, In spite of the law of 69th. shall improve social security, as well as payment according to the 63rd st. and budgets according to 22nd. g., increase according to generalised increase in the lowest remuneration per biographer contract of 2019◯2022. 2.g. then it will be said: " This law has already come to pass. ' The bill in the same line was presented for 145 and 149, a legislature, but was not granted. The case is now submitted by changes taking into account the so - called biographies contracts of a general labour market signed on April 3, 2018, and the corresponding changes in the logic of a report. This bill suggests the development of social security at the lowest wage level of collective labour agreements and a rate of 390,000. in the year 2022. The favors are cumulatively increased to 2022 in a parallel manner and in the lowest terms of the same agreements. Also, when using big words such as a biographer contract, it must be assured that it will hold a decent standard of living for all groups, especially those who have been left behind. As a result, the increase in social security spending according to the increase in minimum wage is a very high level of justice. Today, there are tens of thousands of dollars of dollars of minimums and disability and pensions when the rising of the available bill for financial purposes comes in. The Union believes that the non-involved pensions of social security should never be lower than minimum wage. The minimum wage is the standard for man - made living, and that must apply to the poor and older citizens as well. This is in the current law. Besides, it's time to make a significant reduction in the income of your pension policy. Nothing like that, however, seems to me a government plan. The goal of the bill is that the elderly and the poor get steps toward the decent living and reward. Indeed, the elderly and the poor are very different. The poor are the worst when participants are analysed according to job status. Less than one quarter of the disability suffers from lack of material quality, and since 1998 the growth of the human liver has been made available to 59.4% according to figures which have been developed for the Environment Association of Iceland for Tax. Granted, many older citizens enjoy quite a benefit, but much of the group has very limited or no rights from pensions. These are e.g. women who worked at home for a part of their lives. Those who thus rely solely on the pension of social security and pay for support. This is the group of elderly ones who are even forced to refuse medical care, natural things, such as giving Christmas gifts to their grandchildren or going to the theater once a year. So there's a minimum limit to a bill like this to be approved. It is essential that the groups that may remain in the uplift of the past few years, and they have looked forward to what I mentioned before receive the same kind of promotions as employees, or they may be further reduced, and the difference between the poor and the rich will grow even more. Mr. President. To help establish the proposed elevations in the bill, there are increases in the labour agreement between the Work Programme and the Work Programme's Association from April 3, 2019 to 2022, as described earlier. The contract consists of a gradual pay increase during the contract period and a minimum pay rate of 390,000. in a month, 2022. According to collective agreements, minimum pay was increased to 317,000 dollars. month 1st April 2019, the number to rise is 73,000. in addition to the year 2022. The promotion of social security in the budget is far from reaching the previously diagnosed goals. Minimum implementation insurance for micro-efficient and rehabilitation donors is 247.183 k. every month for those who are not given their household chores. The maximum amount of life with all related payments is $310,800. per month. Clearly, many fail to reach that amount, so it is suggested that the amount will be developed in the following way: The amount will immediately return to 317,000 dollars. every month, April 1, 2020, she will be 341,000. This month, January 1, 2021 365,000. of Month 1 and January 1, 2022, 390,000k. per month. In addition to the proposed changes, it is quite clear that there is a need to reduce the impact of revenue because of the special replacement of a pension that is sometimes referred to as in this dollar against a dollar, which is laid down in social assistance laws, No. 99/2007. The change in the amount of money in accordance with the bill is expected to be published in regulations, but once again financial support is lacking to address these impairments. Mr. President. There are some examples that these groups are determined to be reformed in agreements, as presented here. It was, for example. conducted in 2011 when the Council of that time raised payment to the groups in accordance with the collective agreements then. If someone wants to point out that we are now working hard to get along with them, I would suggest that experience shows that it will go all too slow, and these people simply can't afford to wait. V.E.G. Two years ago, the prime minister said that these are exactly groups that should not have to wait and should not wait. So here it is simply being met with the wishes of the government's leader. So I assume that there will be a greater number of members of the United States that will make sure that these truly troubled groups at least Many people, get the same elevations as they are being given to those who are at the lowest level in the community. Mr. President. We all share in the common quality of our country and common resources, and we cannot live up to the fact that even small children are born into the world that it is clear that they will never be able to care for themselves, need to be on such provisions, and be doomed to poverty for the rest of their lives. We simply cannot agree that there is some reasonableness in it. Therefore, I suggest that the case be referred to the welfare committee and that there be discussion. Some adjustments may need to be made, but the main ingredient of the bill needs to be made in such a way that these people, who certainly do not ride on their own salary and find it hard to make ends meet at each month's conventions, get reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for my history and the bill that I support with all my mind. It tells itself that long ago it is time to treat the worst, the desperate, and the pensioner, so that they can live some measure of decent life and are in the same places as employees. The saddest part of this is the noodle that's been created for the past few years between desperate, older citizens, unemployed people, and employees. These groups are kept separate, the poor are at the bottom, and then there are unemployed and finally the hired people. With all kinds of tricks, the present government has tried to demonstrate that the economy has been improved so that they are on the lowest level that is not right at all. This is not even possible with tricks. On the other hand, the impairments involved make it possible for people who receive a certain amount of money from the state's insurance system in the form of pension not to know for the next year whether they are comparable because, if anything happens, there is a lack of money. No new income can come in, they're down. It tells itself that if you can't survive more than a quarter of a mile. the paying that most people live on, and then there's a cut of 20,000 to 30,000 dollars. The year after, because of the small extra income made in an effort to cover debt, it is certainly impossible to survive. That sucks. One of the things we have to do is make the system work in real time. The skin rate is about 60%, as observed by the base. Senator. It simply tells us a story that this group has been completely in place. It is, in effect, quite remarkable how a government by government can afford to leave this group behind, and at the same time every time, it promises him that his time has come and that something will be done in these matters. The labor movement has to be shot only in terms of pension payments because most of the women who are in the lowest pension reserves. That sucks. I don't understand how we can make it feel to this day that the first 60,000 dollars. From the pension fund, there's zero from the microchip. True, we've taken it back a little bit from senior citizens. That's $25,000. I mean, I'm just saying, it's the least I can do, but it's a lot better. I say for my part, to the first 50,000 or 60,000 bucks. Ideally, it should be a vacation goal for all pension recipients. If given correctly, those who have paid from a pension fund should not be cut off when e.g. would be in the middle of the class that was considered to be the person's before he went into disability. That would be a fair standard. It sucks to fall out of a job market and be grateful to get half of the money you used to have. For most people, this will lead to big problems, even bankruptcy, and a worse situation. It is proved that many people have lost their home and have been blown up by a rented market, all because of this position. At the same time as there seems to be nothing going on with the current government to raise these compensations for disability, paying and taxes are being raised. The government may support this bill completely, but it is misleading. The boring thing is that the group waiting and hoping are being deceived year after year. It's always making him think he's getting something, people are given with one hand, but with the other hand they grab away and even better. That's one of the most pathetic. Hv. A senator entered a cent to meet the loss of a dollar. They say it's over, but there's still 65 bucks in front of a dollar. 65 aura deficiency is one third better than two thirds greater than the decrease, and billions more than one year of micropair are being removed, even though the right status of older citizens has already been established. There will come a bill from the people's Tracks... that we'll update the tax system to what was already set up at 1988's market payment, making a total of 300,000 dollars. ... woulddaybeinfruitful and incompetent. At that time, a pension pay from the government insurance agency was tax free, and people even had 20 to 30% in the pension fund. If we were to launch such a system, the pensioner's interests would be greatly improved. That's why I support this bill whole-hearted. I hope that it will be agreed and that it is only the first step in raising this, and then the second step must be to try to make sure that the tax of the poor guys who are paying off in the system will be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u39	A respectable president. I come up here to describe my support and Pirata's support for this fine thing. I think it's a very important legal step and it's a clear message that we're all entitled to human rights. I'd like to put this into context with a subject dear to me, human rights, and discuss it with social rights. We are involved in an agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights and we have as such a government specific responsibilities. These include ensuring a roof above the head, ensuring the right to the best possible health and right to a man - made dress, not having to fear for financial security. Social rights are only different from civil rights in this way so that they are less decisive. In social rights, however, the commitment of the government is always to do better with each passing year unless something really big stands in the way of it, such as. An economic collapse. That's the way it is, for example. It is disturbing that we are not improving our health system at this time when it is good because our best health rights tell us that the government must always demonstrate it better now in securing the right of all to the best possible health than it did five years ago. The same is true of the social rights to have a roof over head and decent living. With the development of this class, we simply have not lived up to that commitment. It is a disgrace, a respectable president, that a prosperous nation such as Iceland cannot clearly show that it respects the human rights of its citizens, especially the social rights of its citizens. They are supersuccess because they always have to try to do better. Governments like us should have no problem doing so, just no one at all. Yet, the poor have to fight for every shame they get. I don't think it's acceptable. I don't feel that it's up to our commitment to the public in Iceland, especially microterrorism, not having done better now than it really is. Perhaps this reluctance of the greater part in agreeing to the Protocol that we agree to the legal history of the social, economic, and cultural rights because we do not wish to receive a sentence from the Committee that has the authority to interpret this agreement. True, it does not have legal authority or legal authority or some kind of court authority, but we do not want the penalty from which we do not comply with our commitment to the agreement. I think it might very well explain a compromise, explaining that our Pirata proposal that we are engaged in an optional book of access to this committee has not been made to this point. The government doesn't want to look in the mirror. I think it's a very important bill, I think it's a step in the right direction, and I hope there's a more part in this council and a good start in Congress treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u40	A respectable president. The piranha put the environment first on this council as well as on the last. This case is one of many that we will contribute to the intense appeals of action in nature and climate action. Sadly, the nature that helps us all have no language code to speak for their benefit. Others, therefore, need to make sure that she is protected. That's what we have, for example. There are various environmental and outdoor organizations and citizens who are concerned with nature's issues. The issue I now recommend may appear to be small, and perhaps technical, but it has to do with paying the way for the environment and for the environment to the defences of nature, and in that respect, this is an enormously important issue. As is the situation today, nature today does not have strong enough words in court when it comes to projects that can have very serious consequences for nature and the environment. So I recommend a bill for a change in the law on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. With the bill, there are environmental, curfew and interest organizations involved in the Commission's lawsuits made it possible to shoot her decisions to the courts, whether or not they have legal interests to care for the release of the case - these are the laws of civil rights. The matter was previously delivered at the last legislature, and then it remains unchanged. This bill is employed in good cooperation and by Land Protection. The idea of a meeting with Land Protection came up when it was discussed the access of this same group to sue the Commission's decision on environmental and resource matters to the courts. It was found that the organization cannot prosecute the decision - making committee to the courts as normal as it would be when it comes to administrative decisions, however, with some exceptions. We'd like to clear it up here by decommissioning from the law a list of donations so that environmental, outdoor and interest organizations have a lawsuit and are authorized to sue the entire decision of the Commission. And to eliminate any doubt about the criminal rights of the organization, there is a new paragraph at Article 4. The Act on Environment and Resource Decisions where they are granted the charges regardless of whether or not they have legal interest under civil rights. The Environment and Resource Action Committee was set up following the implementation of the European Convention called in Icelandic legislation. The main part of the deal is three. The first support sets parties, i.e. Governments, responsibilities on public access to environmental information. The second support of Member States in ensuring the public participation in decision-making activities affecting the environment and third support the Convention supports the above rights of access to a righteous treatment which contributes to the importance of the agreement. This bill that we will discuss here greatly increases the third support of the Worker Convention and, therefore, adds to its significance in the Icelandic court case. I think it's important that this should occur because it is a very important legal step, including for the public in the country, that it may have increased access to implementation, increased access to decisions made on the environment or on its land. During the last assembly, it was criticized that the bill would open the way for a group to send a ruling to the courts just prior to the release of a work permit. This could lead to an increase in cost, even in debt costs, for contractors who may already have had a high level of groundwork. To that criticism, all I'm saying is that the nature of Iceland, nature protection and the interests of the whole, is more important to me than any possible loss of individual contractors. Perhaps, and hopefully this bill will motivate them to do better with projects and to cooperate with members and others who are concerned with the natural world of Iceland. To do so, the game is designed to increase public access to environmental decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u41	A respectable president. We'll talk about it. paritaprevir Consequences of Sunna Ævarsdóttir, charges of solidarity. One point I encountered in this matter rang an alarm bell, which is the phrase: ▪ Whatever their own legal interest in the solution of the case,... I've had my own case that I didn't even have a legal interest in it, so I put a question mark on it. I'm asking why. A senator is not afraid that this is opening up a worm pit so that, in any case, this can be used, for discrimination, that it can be used not only in one matter but in all cases. I'm wondering how this could affect courts. I completely understand the need for nature to be first, second and third, but I ask myself for a while too. We know it's gonna take a long time to sue the courts and I'm gonna ask if it's all right. A senator is not concerned that this will block the judicial system. Most of the issues involved in activations are likely to go to court, and the number of cases will be indistinguishable. I thought about it, and I also thought about it in a legitimate interest, if it's not going to be all that matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to ask this interesting question. I have felt that Icelandic courts themselves interpret the idea of law - abiding interests far too narrow and may be explained by our laws or some tradition that has developed. Hv. One senator noted that he could not have confirmed that he had a legal interest in his own case. I've heard of it. I received the evidence from the Council of U.S.A. that I had no legal interest in explaining the basis for the raises in the Senate. As a result, I did not get answers to questions, since I was not to be a law - enforcement professional because I knew the foundation of a dresser's advice to make a decision on my pay raise. It's a little interesting, and it's also very interesting how it's been treated. Hv. A senator asks if I am not concerned that the matter will open up to some diadem. I'm hoping that there might be a door open to us as we begin to examine this term with an open mind. But the problem - or not a problem - is the matter of solution - when it comes to nature, all of us have legal interests in protecting nature. That is why this is an exception, for it must be very clear that in order to fulfill the Communication Treaty, we should be able to take precautions from nature that cannot protect ourselves. This is why we have this interest organization, which is why we have an environmental organization, to fight on nature's behalf. We haven't gone as far here as I do. In other countries where everyone has legal rights, each citizen in each country, regardless of whether he lives next door to where he is going or not. We have not gone that far, nor are we suggesting that this time we will have gone so far. But we want to enhance and promote the ability of nature protection organizations to protect the natural interests of Iceland, knowing that it is very important that it has its own perplexity. I have to come to the second question. A senator in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. Þórhildur The Sunna Ævarsdóttir for the answer and cannot help but agree that it is something to be handled by law and, in many respects, the judicial system must be taken for a thorough review. The outcome of this system of justice is a matter of concern. But I also worry that if a small society in nature's protection tries to fight for its rights, it's expensive to sue in court. Then it's a matter of financing. We know that a slave cannot be sought. It is one of the harder cases in the judiciary to get a hold on certain matters. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this funding will pass over the interest groups under it? Does she see that they have material opportunities to handle these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u44	A respectable president. I think it's fine that I haven't been able to answer a previous question. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristjánsson's son until now because the second question is why. A senator gives an answer to this too - i.e. The second concern. I'm not going to tell myself anything about the financing of nature protection organizations or how they're going to finance themselves. They must set priorities like everyone else when it comes to using funds. I don't think there will be any flood of natural rights, although we give them access to the justice system on nature's behalf, not at all. I think the most important priorities of nature - protection organizations must be set because it costs money to sue the courts. However, it is true that natural protection organisations now have access to the decision - making committee of the environment, but if they are not at odds with the decision, they cannot go to courts as if there was a person with a legal interest. But we have agreed to the Asrium Convention, which tells us that everyone has a legal interest in protecting nature. The commitments we have made to the Conspira Treaty are being completed or satisfied by expanding or increasing their ability to protect nature and to speak for it - and not help.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u45	A respectable president. Everyone has a responsibility. Of course, it is everyone's responsibility that each individual, whether he or she needs spiritual or physical help, will suffer relief. It is important that we immediately put our mental health problems below the same standard as physical health care. That's why I'm here, a respectable president, for the bill of a change in health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, on the increase in bioavailability to psychotherapy and other clinical interviews. This is the second time when the matter was delivered at a council, which was done in February earlier this year, and it went to the point. The welfare committee, where they received a very good and important discussion. There were a total of 15 comments from different sources, all positive, and I want to know that, like now, it was more than a third of the members of Congress on the case. In this case, today there are 23 members of all classes, and that, of course, tells their own story. It tells us that we are all responsible, we want to bear that responsibility, and we want to share it into the operating system so that the system itself takes into account what we, elected agents, hear, and perceives the citizens of this country. We bring it forward, and we are happy that we are here from government and government. It is important that we be able to demonstrate by our actions that when it comes to important improvements, the council can be able to meet together and handle good issues objectively and professionally. It has long been called upon to provide access to mental - health services. It's just part of the bill. If it is approved, health insurance will at last include psychotherapy and other clinical interview treatments, and I will only review them afterwards. It is, in effect, the change between councils - we are taking into account the indications given - that psychological services and interview services will be paid down, like other health services for the first time. The change is as follows: We'll be right back. The law's coming up with a new branch, 21 str. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Psychological and other clinical interview treatments. Medical insurance includes the necessary psychotherapy and other clinical treatments agreed on at the time. IV. section. The health insurance facility may separate a specialist's certificate, family doctor or specialist physician from the need for treatment. The secretary sets up a Regulation on further implementation of the article, which includes: can be considered on the basis of the conditions and limitations of the payment of health insurance at the expense of psychotherapy. It's even there. It has been suggested that the Ministry of Health has room for the development of a set set of mental health problems in excess of others, who are more stressful, as we know, for example. About depression, for example. A key factor is that psychological therapy, such as other health care providers, is being put under medical insurance. It is the main objective of the bill that this treatment should fall under the payment system of Iceland's Medical Insurance and be provided on the same terms as other health services. Such a service is now reserved for the public payment of health insurance. The bill has already changed, as it once was before, and now it also includes another clinical interview, as well as psychotherapy therapy. This is done according to legitimate comments, e.g. From Iceland's Social Advisory Association and others that the first bill has merely assumed that a single profession can provide interview treatment for psychosocial problems. It was rightly pointed out that several more of their professions certainly have important overall therapies, such as social advisers, family experts, and others. These are all some of the clinical tools that help provide a broad range of professional approaches that ensure good service for those who need it. Better access to multi-disciplinary services increases the likelihood that individuals will find suitable treatment, not as their own system determines, but as a convenient option, which also increases the long term recovery rate. Thus, the bill looks to more professionals than psychologists, and it is the religion of the leading immigrant to increase access to such treatments to reduced overuse of antipsychotics and to increase the likelihood that individuals will have the freedom to obtain treatment from a professional who is suitable for them at any time. A respectable president. It has not been overlooked that at present, a collection is being carried out by the promotional and fundraiser campaign on all lips. If they have been much appreciated, the three panels on that job and effort, both now and during the past few years, but now they are building up for sponsorship One life based on teaching parents, teachers, children, and young people about the dangers of drugs and prescription related to drugs. This is one of the largest prevention projects ever done in this country in recent years. It has always been noted that it is important to promote preoperative mental health care measures, as well as increased premeditation and measures. Young people and out of school have also been named as cause causes and risk factors when it comes to drug and drug abuse in young people. Of course, these are linked fibers and different ways of dealing with the problem, but it must be in the eye of increasing access to psychological services and clinical interview therapy as a key factor in coping with the serious problems we know many people face every day, even for a year. Sadly, a growing number of people are diagnosed with mental illness or other spiritual illness, and at the same time, there is access to resources and services for this group very limited, and the expense is often very high. It is important to ensure that those with active symptoms will have their problems resolved as soon as possible to avoid the known cycle of drugs, depression, and inactivity. Such things can have serious consequences, both for those who need help and for as much as for society. Therefore, the bill is intended to ensure that individual access to psychology services and other clinical interviews. Bioavailability to mental health care is crucial for early diagnosis of conditions and to ensure appropriate treatment after diagnosis. According to surgeon's clinical guidelines, the most effective psychological treatment for anxiety, depression, and other psychological disorders, should be the first treatment for anxiety, depression, and any other physical illness. Psychological treatments or other clinical interview treatments instead of medication trigger the underlying problem and may prevent or significantly reduce medication. Even so, such treatments are usually not practical, except for a section of the public, where there is too limited room within the health care system with appropriate waiting lists and delays in necessary treatment. It also suggests that there is no right to negotiate in accordance with current law that health insurance includes essential therapy for psychology. In contrast to other health care services, therefore, psychological services and other clinical interviews are primarily available in the private working organisations without official support for those needing the service. A respectable president. It is high time for us to cope with such invisible diseases as the spiritual one, as it is for visible ones to meet them. That's what we know. We need to do something about it. By doing so, we increase the quality of life that people enjoy. No one should have to say no for his own help because of cost or lack of access. Sadly, though, that is today's fact. We can see that on evidence. Economics report that some 33% of people cannot afford mental - health services. It's a very striking number and it's completely unacceptable. As we consider these points further, we will see that the majority of the less money - rich people, the low - income groups, and the very high - risk groups that are in today's discussion. It is obvious that it is not for anyone to rely on hundreds of thousands of dollars to recover. The common price for psychiatry is about 15,000,18,000 k. and it is estimated that it will usually take an on-treatment period of 10◯15 to achieve measurable recovery. Thus, the cost of such treatment is numbered for hundreds of thousands of dollars, not all of which are available. The most threatened groups who cannot afford to seek help are, in addition to young people, e.g. Older people, poor adults, and poor income. We do well when it comes to planning for children, and that is a cause for rejoicing. It was a good step to increase the number of psychologists on health care throughout the country, but in my opinion it is important to focus on young people and premeditated measures to cope with chronic illness and problems. After 18 years of age, individuals do not have the same opportunities for subsidies and assistance as before. Like those who may be, students do not have the same means of strengthening. in the labour market, through the unions. Hence, the age group 183/425 is the most risky age group, the most planned failure to deal with spiritual illness. According to a European health study since 2015, more young women of that age were diagnosed with depressive symptoms in Iceland than in any other European country, whereby about five women of that age were diagnosed with depressive symptoms. About half of the young people in 16◯25 years of age have thought about ending their lives, and 1 out of 10 have done something to harm themselves. The most common cause of death among males aged 18◯25 years is suicide. A respectable president. Instead of attacking its roots, in part because it is cheaper, we are too eager to get a Band -Aid. It is easier for us here to carve the expenses, pay the gates, and take the income side, so this way is cheaper than the long - term bad news is that it does not solve the problem. We are not taking the root of this heavy and grave problem. A fine example of this is that in 2017, in the Summit, 48,000 people released antidepressants. In November 2018, 33,000 Icelanders had been prescribed sleeping medication and using Icelanders about 37% more - this surprised me when I began doing this research in preparing for the bill at the last assembly - a drug of sleeping drugs than for e.g. Swedes. The use of antidepressants in Iceland is twice as high as the average in OECD countries and 24% higher than the second most widely used OECD nation in the second place, and there are Australians. We have nearly a quarter more than the nation in second place. At the same time, a new study showed that only 8% of the subjects initiating and achieving treatment did not recover from relapse following treatment compared to 26% of those treated clinically in the form of mental behavioural treatment during the 15 months of the study. There are 18% more of the total number of patients who are affected by behavioural treatment than chemotherapy. Thus, the government's funds are much more used to facilitate access to measures that will solve this urgent problem in the long term and thus contribute to the long - term effectiveness of the individual in the community rather than focus on measures that do not provide such a major prowess. At any rate, try to agree to have freedom of choice so that people are not attached to one way. As a paradox approach on the subject, I have high hopes that it will be possible. It is reasonable to assume that by postponing psychiatric services to the social security system, there will be an increase in access to the public that mental health services will be possible to save high government costs for long periods of time. Of course, this will cost you at first. We know that. But human investments and emotional health are economic benefits and bring back many times. Recently, news on the incidence of disability due to musculoskeletal problems was reported. This has been reduced by the use of physical therapy from the state. It's a matter that doesn't have anything to do with the bill, but it's also a huge case, access to physical therapy. We see that with improved access to physical therapy, the incidence of disability decreases, and young people in particular who have been looking for physical therapists, who were unable to afford it in the past, are cured of the ills that have afflicted them. Poorer people and younger people turn to physical therapy because it is more open to them. Of course, government funds need to be handled well, and we need to understand how we try to set priorities, but we must not lose the benefits that have come from another fine system involving physical therapist and physical therapist system. But it is, as I say, another story, and we should discuss it also. I'm pulling out the physical therapist's case because in a sense, that's preemptive. Increased bioavailability reduced the incidence of disability, so we have examples of benefits resulting from when the government invests in preventative and preventive measures instead of having endless patches in the system. Such procrastination results in less, but less, more time. We must try to learn from it. It has been found that preventive measures produced by Psychological Service will increase the likelihood that individuals will achieve a healthy and effective social life. This, in our opinion, brings the matter up - to - date with a high priority of money, which can well be reasoned as a national advantage. And speaking of national gain, speaking of happiness in society, there have been economic conditions. In particular, I would like to rejoice that for the development of Ministers in the government to talk about the need to consider environmental benefits, social benefits, as well as economic benefits. That's what this is all about. It is an economic recovery, a social improvement, and an environmental improvement. This is what we need for the whole community. But we also have this matter of putting our arms around every person, every living person, and giving them the opportunity to succeed in the system that we want to do well in service to individuals, all kinds of people. Mr. President. The prevalence of suicide and mental illness is a serious problem. It is crystal clear to me that we must deal with the problem. Simply put, it means that we must put first - to - face issues that affect well - being and mental health, no longer allowing them to be lenient. Maybe it's not quite right for me to say sweet change. Many things have been done well, but we must face the present. It's a trend, and fortunately, it's a wake-up call. We talk much more about mental health, and people, especially young people, demand that we, in this room, view mental health as we view physical sickness. We have a unique opportunity to put our hands together across classes and political lines and actually affect people's access. By giving this bill a walk at council, we can actually pay the access of people to preventive measures and increase their chances of working right away, not later, but at some later time, not right away, for diseases such as depression and anxiety, which according to measurements seem to be only increasing among certain groups, such as forming among young people. We have seen it in the last few days in discussions about budgeting that we are not afraid to talk about putting tens and even hundreds of billions of people on a variety of means of transportation, which is fine, concrete, and infrastructure. But here we are talking about investments in people, health and well - being, and the price of such investments, of course, is not very high in the big picture. I'm sure that there will be a long-term positive social impact on the health - care supply, and I'm sure that every dollar in increasing the availability of a mental - health service will make it possible for individuals to obtain long - term recovery at all times. This results in a far - reaching return. A respectable president. I'd like to recommend it after a discussion, the bill goes on to treat the problem. A welfare committee, and I hope that the case will get a good start and good publicity. But most important of all, we will be able to discuss this matter again at the Hall of Congress at 2 Peter 3: 1. Um... 3rd. ... then, vote on the matter and then send it out into the world, into the community with the clear message that we want people to be treated properly, whether they are suffering physical or mental ills.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u46	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for an excellent shipping speech. I feel that all the elements of the bill have been very clear and clear in its language, and I don't feel that I need to review the great benefits of it's approval. But I wanted to come up here to describe our support for this matter. We're here, and this is a matter that matters to all of us, and I agree with it. A senator says that we need to balance the gap between the way we treat mental and physical diseases. I may have wanted to limit the interaction between spiritual and physical illnesses and how the system, as it is today, does not handle them adequately. As we know, getting seriously ill or involved in an accident can have serious spiritual consequences. As the system is installed today, we do not have the opportunity to offer people the needed support they need to deal with such problems as spiritual. Similarly, spiritual illness can result in serious physical illness. This is how it plays together. That is why, and for many other reasons. A senator listed it so well, I must take heart to say that this is a very important long - term investment in human resources as in the people we have in this country, to provide access to the support they need to live with spiritual health because it has long been acknowledged that we have as much right to the best possible mental health as we have in the best possible physical health. I came in earlier on a different matter about social rights. What kind of commitment is involved in social rights, such as the right to the best possible health? We who have agreed to respect the right of everyone in Iceland for the best possible health have to show that today's situation is considerably better than it was five years ago. Thus, in order to meet them, social rights need to be demonstrated constantly, to improve and promote social rights because they are not linear and decisive, like civil rights, but include the commitment to always do better. In my knowledge, we cannot prove that we have fulfilled that commitment in the past few years, not well enough. I feel that a state as successful as ours has every opportunity to fulfill those rights and to demonstrate that our mental health system is a better place, a much better place, to ensure the right of all to the best possible mental health than it was five years ago. It's like I think we should be able to prove much better that our health system is far better off to ensure the right of all to the best possible health than it was five years ago. The only excuse we have for not doing so is major economic traumas, something entirely cataste, such as, for example. An economic collapse. But we don't have that excuse right now, a respectable president, so we have no excuse for not taking the bigger steps and better to fulfill our commitment to the social rights of citizens of Iceland. I want to add that I think this is of utmost importance not only to the health of people in Iceland but also to the possibility that later people will get sick or that mental illness will result in physical illness or, on the other hand, in the form of physical illness, in the form of physical illness. Prisonal psychology services that would have to be much better. And where that's where it's at. A senator refers to premedical action: Mental - health services for people who are affected, whatever they are, whether by crime or even by parental imprisonment, are not available as the situation is today, at least not readily available. If this is being done on an equal basis now, so that, just as we can go to health care, I think we'll also see a considerably lower crime rate, a significant decrease in the likelihood that the people of the country will be bored of crime, if they are supported by the events and as soon as people are beginning to show some evidence that they may have difficulty staying within the bounds of law, possibly because of the trauma in life. This is something that I think we need to take care of. Why is it not something that cares for children when they face a parent's being taken from them and placed in prison? There's no system to handle that. There's nothing that goes off automatically. That was a brief thought about it. I think with increasing bioavailability, it's quite easier for most people to get the necessary help, and I must be glad to do so. I'm here to celebrate, and I'm here to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator and a prime minister, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, for a great bill. The Gangs' party supports that whole mind. It is no question that there is no increased access to psychotherapy and clinical interview therapy is the best. I was talking to the health minister today about physical therapy. It was, like, a whisk. A senator spoke of, opened up for those who had no prior access to physical therapy, and it seems that this government was surprised to learn that there were people out there who could get in. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid there's going to be some setback, which I hope won't be. This bill is similar to a mental - and - soul therapy program. We also have to watch how to keep the service free so that Iceland's health insurance will be involved in the cost. It opens many doors because that is definitely how there will be greater and more general access to that system. And then I'll say, because we're in a system that's a little weird, that I noticed when I had a tragedy in my life how easy it was to solve, and somehow the first thought of taking care of everything by medication. It's very dangerous. We have figured this out, and we need to realize more fully that we do not know how a drug - free take affects people, young people. We know that some are more sensitive to medication than others, and they can depend on the medicines being given. That's why I say, the more we open up to psychotherapy and therapy, the more ideas come up and more specifically, I'd say, new ideas we know are starting where people are being helped without medication. That's where I say for my part that only the gain is the gigantian, just great, that I don't talk about health authorities being happy with it because it saves the cost, the drug cost, which is also gigantian. As we know, there are many drugs that are expensive. That is why I support this bill whole - souled and will follow it into a welfare committee where I sit. I don't even understand why it's not a personal thing today. This can be no more than a normal part of health care, especially if we look at those in the pensions from the government insurance agency, the striped. How should such service be afforded? I know they can't afford it, but they need it because just having to live in that system is a prescription for severe depression because the system is destructive. Just having a chance to seek help without the cost would make things better. Of course, making that kind of service, regardless of my financial circumstances, is the main thing to do, and that is what I support my mind and the most important things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-16-5.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. As shown in the case of what? This case is given to a member of the council for the second time, in February of that month. At that time I made comments to the bill because then it only turned to psychotherapy, and I welcome the changes that have now been made in it. These are important changes. As the report says: The target of this bill is that public psychology services and other clinical interviews will fall under the payment system of Iceland's Medical Insurance. This is exactly what I stressed during my hearing during the winter, and I rejoice that it has been changed and has been fully supported by this bill as it shows. I just want to come on one thing in that relationship, i.e. that in this country, there has been the custom of referring to all the treatments of the entire series called Psychological Service. Total therapy is not based solely on psychological services, but also on other professions. In this country, certain professionals receive official recognition from the governor, called work permit, for total treatment, including social advisers and psychologists. Both professional classes are behind five years of university education, of which two are in a master's degree. So, Mr. President, it is misleading to call all such services psychologically. It would be as if we were to call all the medical profession gerontologists. But in the bill as much as ever. A senator may state that there are certain languages in a very clear way. It would be normal for me to know that the wording was on the way to the payment of the state's office for a comprehensive treatment provided by approved surgeons qualified by the surgeon general. It's just my personal opinion, but I think it would be a little bit clearer if it was presented like that. In the university community, there is no doubt that total treatment will produce significant results; however, research has shown that such treatment increases the likelihood of improving physical and mental health and positive relationships. This is true both in the case of adults and children and is seen in both homes and at work. Research has shown that total treatment can significantly reduce the cost of medication by individuals, involving both the individual's financial situation and the public. The figures were very interesting. A senator mentioned in his talk the massive amount of medicine being consumed by the Icelanders, e.g. hypnotics. We're considerably above the average, and certainly it's a concern. But the International Health Organization has confirmed that economic and social factors are the most important factors in the health of society and individuals. Therefore, the overall treatment provided by independent specialists, whether psychologists, sociologists, or other professional, family advisers, etc., but surgeons admit, should be available to all who wish to use that service. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter reasoned very well in her case, and it was good that it proved true. This should be independent of individual financial circumstances. I think it's clear, and I think we all agree on that and the importance of it. Total treatment should therefore be a natural component of health care in Iceland and available to all community groups. I have had several conversations with independent experts in the field of conversation with them in this matter, and it shows that there is a great need for such service. We know that there are no personal difficulties in asking about social status or anxiety - related diseases that affect adults, young people, and children as well. Mr. President. It is true in this discussion that only finally introduce family counseling because the divorce rate in this country is about 37%, I understand. Only written relationships are being discussed. They keep better than the unregistered relationships, however in general, experts believe that in reality the divorce rate is 50%, which is a natural huge number. Research in the United States and Europe suggests that the divorce rate may be up to 65%, so the problem is serious. That's why it's a real pleasure to see it come into the bill. I think, for example. personally that family counselors are a very important class in this community and the figures I mentioned show how necessary that profession is. Finally, I welcome the bill and especially the change in the subject to other clinical treatments. My personal opinion is that the word for total treatment is a clearer word. I'll do it. A senator for history.
