ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u1	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator spoke of new legal information. There is no new information. A senator is asking for information. See page 5 of this magazine. 3 of the bill on the implementation of the Regulation, the non-recognizable regulations on related countries. That is a legal warning. In a speech or two. A senator on the energy package he held on April 8th. he was told about his sovereignty. It is of interest that after nearly a century of a series of events in which the world has been opening up with lack of borders and increasing international and international relations, the sovereignty has again become prominent in politics. I've marked it with the opponents of the third energy package, their words, their speeches. This has been defined by experts'growing political emphasis on closure, nationalism, and borders. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he really thinks it is a threat to the national sovereignty in some way using the third energy package and thus the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Since the first day, I have been a great supporters of the Icelanders'involvement in the European Economic Convention. I have shown the support here at the General Assembly by promoting a report that the Norwegian role model will be taken out of the pros and cons of this cooperation. The latest report on this point is from 2007, and I believe that it is now a long time and a great additional experience has been obtained that makes such a report necessary. I believe we need to support every time with new or recent reports in our discussions about our participation in this cooperation. We have a great deal of interest in how we take care of our policies at any given time. That is the objective of this report, as I mentioned, into the Norwegian role model. There have been great - quality candidates for the Commission. Secretary of State ordered that this report be prepared to take the lead. I think there's a lot of work there, including... Let me hope that there will be a thorough economic analysis of our involvement in this cooperation. Similarly, to form the career that takes place regarding the induction of new types, I have in particular considered whether we do not have to be more active in previous stages than perhaps we have witnessed, even in this matter that we now deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I've marked words for myself, and good if not of a branch. The senator's support of the EEA agreement. I fully agree with him that we need to be more active in the early stages of the introduction. I wanted to come back to his words about sovereignty and doubts about the sovereignty and whether the third energy package will last to our constitution and whether we are giving up sovereignty, as he specifically mentioned in his speech on April 8, 2000. Governments are centered on the rights of countries to establish international affairs and national commitments. From the national rights of the nations, the rights of the State to accept commitments are about participation in international and international treaties. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with this? Here he stepped in a lock, Mr. President, and spoke well and beautifully of the EEA deal, but still he has these enormous doubts about the third energy package. I'd like to hear more clearly. A senator whether he believes that Iceland is less out of the country to accept commitments that include international contracts, such as the EEA agreement, than to get more out of off - international contracts like him. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u4	Mr. President. It is in the power of a sovereignty, such as a whale. A senator rightly mentioned that we share in international cooperation and have done so. We made a big political and important decision in 1949 to become founders of the Atlantic Alliance. We made important decisions in the 1970's, including involved in EFTA, and later in the 1990's by becoming members of the European Economic Area. This, of course, is done in the power of the sovereignty. We are to be viewed as a nation, and we have a national interest. In international cooperation anywhere, we must take care of our interests and in this matter, there are important interests underneath, i.e. America's custody of its energy resources. Here is a group of opinions that I have considered very much in my talks and many other speakers who raise serious questions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And it is up to the generals to take care to the earth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u5	The president sees why he's asking. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u6	A respectable president. I don't know exactly where to start after a talk. Senator. Let me start by saying that it is very dishonest to break out the context of the words of scholar Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, I must say. I think it's very dishonest, for he made those words in connection with his own point of view, which is quite clear, that these warnings are unnecessary, and that the third energy package such as this does not violate in any way against a constitution. I think it's very dishonest to come up here and misrepresent his word in the Senate. On legal notice, once again, as a matter of course. A senator calls for something new, and I don't know if I just have to read the report that I've done before. On page 3, the warning's over and they're pretty clear. They are not just the fact that we are an island, as some would like to claim. This is simply the fact that the legal laws on countries that are not associated with them are not valid. The induction protocol will be clearly recorded. How does this work out? This document we are discussing today is the permission of the Generals, allowing the government to bring in a rule of induction, and this agent will be in it. This is not the only warning, since there is also a priority for a discussion at a job station that discusses the need for a decision on whether this is going to be a sea cable. I'd like to ask you what. A senator after this adjustment: What does he think is included in the office of authority? Is there any greater authority room than that ESAs decide if governments that are not linked to conclusions or disagree on a connection? Is there anything more involved in that government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u7	Mr. President. I'll tell you what I'm saying. The senator and the chairman of the foreign committee of dishonesty is overwhelmed, and I'm directing them to the Father House. I think it's a bold guess. A senator who freely used the truth during a television interview earlier this evening when discussing these comments. I was there for this meeting. The comments were an answer to a question from me. I understood the comment in my own way, and I have every right to describe my understanding of it without hesitation. A senator make false accusations about dishonesty. She should look at herself, she should look at what she was using herself for an interview, as she was a guest with the head of the Middle Party earlier tonight. I have to say, about the warning, I think it's a bad thing. Also, a senator boldly reviews him in the way he is seen because what happened today was that the legal examiner who has been rolled over in this matter disappeared. It was asked, "Where is this captain?" Then came a lot of answers. I studied three or four of those comments in a talk. Why don't they have a good night's rest? Those who are followers of the matter looked at themselves and examined their minds in view of the fact that the matter is thought to have disappeared and was nowhere to be seen? The latest theory is that he will be looking in some Regulation that is expected to be published but has not been shown and has not presented to the Council. That's what they said. Hv. A senator can throw fun at it, as it were. A senator wants it. But these are simply facts. Unfortunately, I don't now have the opportunity to answer any more than I will in second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u8	A respectable president. It's very strange to hear this from what happened. Senator. It takes no more than reading a report from scholar Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son to see that he breaks off the table all the reasonings of the Middle Party on the subject. It is primarily a matter of government opinion. He strikes the fingers of all of them, as more scribes do. Then I'd like to ask. A senator, because I have not yet received answers to the question, how can one so often refer to the argument of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik's Árnason Hirst but find a completely different conclusion? How do you use his reasoning against his conclusions? I'm really curious about this because it says there's no legal question on the way we're going, it's totally in accordance with the constitution. It has also said that the legal protection, along with the confirmation of EU energy manager, is of significant significance. [[The president calls.]] I cannot see that a man's reasoning against his conclusion could be used to reach a different conclusion, as can be understood in the minority of the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u9	I hear this is getting really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, In no way have I used or turned their words against them in two ways. I have done much simply over the subject of their opinion, which is the most interesting. It is very well organized, and the fact is that their main proposal is that the case will be adopted at the scene of the joint EEA committee. The other way is by which it will be legalized. Today, May 15, we find that the legal defense disappeared. [[Foreground on: 16.]] They won't find him. It is essential that these fine writers be taken into account in view of the information that was presented in the matter at any time. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargian, chairman of the House of Independence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u10	A respectable president. I am under no obligation to be here and to speak for or against or with this matter except by my own convictions. I'd like to take a little adventure tour. A senator on this notice. There was no need for this administrative notice because the only power supply they include was for the basis of cross-border structures, if there was a cable. If there is no sea cable, there is no power because ACER or ESA cannot determine whether a problem with translucency is correct or false. There is no sea cable, hence no power campaign. It has been shown during the discussion that we have no obligation to place a cable. The British can do, for example. Don't come down here and say, "Hey, we're going to set up a cable against your beach. You have to take it. No, it doesn't work that way. We too cannot do so in return. We can't figure out a sea cable across the Atlantic, come to Scotland and say, "Hey, connect this to your infrastructure." It doesn't work that way at all. This has been noted in the discussion many times. A cable does not come suddenly just because the General has to come to that decision, e.g. with the points presented in the third energy pack on the safety plan and national distribution plan. How do you get a what? So a senator claims that there is something complicated about this advance and this power hall? There's something unexpected and necessary, and a horrible exercise of power, and I don't know what and what; fullness of authority, and I don't know what other words have been used over it, there are so many. After all, it's all about the country's cables, it's not about anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I am so happy to be able to tell you. A member of the Parliament that he can save himself the search for wealth in the speeches and the language that I have had in this matter and my members of the Middle East. He needs to look for other things, including big ones. What is upstairs, and there is a material substance in it as quick as possible. A candidate's main focus is the interaction between the European Observation Agency and the European Energy Agency, ACER.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u12	I don't want to tell you that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u13	What's in my mind is a big problem in this relationship - and attention is drawn at least The two legal opinions of the two most widely mentioned double-sized civilizations, as well as the Skúli Magnússon's - are that all we can see is that there is a considerable variation between the two important solutions that have been placed on the part of the Icelanders, in view of the fact that ESA, the European Commission to which we are involved, we are attracted to decisions from the ACER, where we have no more than an audience. This may be the very essence of the fact that this two - sided arrangement, which has been considered very important, including. Based on the sovereignty principle - and especially now, I would like to relate from the point of view that there will be no conflict with the constitution. That's the weak ESA position against the ACER, which is a major concern here. The danger in this is the introduction of power to an institution that the Icelanders are not involved in except for an audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u14	A respectable president. It's really nice to talk about things I wasn't asking about. I was saying that the ACER and ESA had nothing to say about Iceland in the absence of a sea cable, nothing. It's a matter of decision-making, and it's very limited on what it's all about. It is a policy of transport distribution, the timelines for distribution, the income by system gaming, and the stress of paying for users of infrastructure. These are the only four things. What we find in Friðriksson's opinion is that this list is not exhaustive. If you go from language to language and see that in every language translated in the European Union - in Danish, as in my speech, in Swedish and English too - this is clearly an exhaustive list, both in legal and logical sense. It's a very well-mannered, clear power campaign that only deals with basic activities, which is the sea cable. [[The president calls.]] In the absence of a cable, there is no room for power. If we are not obliged to pick up a cable unless we have a special decision here, that decision remains here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to bring to attention a very important point in the legal opinion of the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson, i.e. when it is said that there is no authority to make such a decision, although it is the case with the idea that it is not a sea cable. It must be evaluated in the light of what would happen if there was a cable. We know that in the light of technology and possible incidents that we do not now know, time could be heavy. The decisions that have been made, as considered in this case, have to be arranged so that the decisions made are not met by the Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u16	Mr. President. Here's a conference hearing with the secretary of state on confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 93/2017, change of IV. Annex to the EEA Convention, a third energy package. The talk of the third energy package has been focused on their concern particularly on two aspects, except that its specific requirements include violation of a constitution with power overexchange and that it includes the obligation to place an electronic cable between Iceland and the European Union's internal market, the EU. Scholars agree that the introduction of these rules, on the grounds of it in the synonym of the foreign minister's decree, does not conflict with a constitution, and is struck by the defender of the industrial minister's bill that the electronic cord will not be laid unless the approval of the General Assembly finds a new surface on the case. Now it is claimed that we cannot build an extradraft from the introduction of the third energy package on one-sided warnings or grounds. We need to negotiate such an appendage and gain consent to the common EEA committee. Otherwise, the ESA could appeal to us for a violation of a contract, and maybe Iceland could lose that case. That is the correct statement, but it has one major flaw. The problem with this statement is that she has nothing to do with the Senate resolution of the minister of foreign affairs. On the contrary, the proposal does not include an exception to the rules, the rules are introduced. On the other hand, the implementation of the rules is based on the assumption that Iceland is not linked to the EU internal energy market by electronic translucency. At the introduction, Iceland will not be connected with the EU internal energy market unless the approval of the Alliedis and the avoidance of a specific opinion on whether the rules of the Constitution are met. Until that happens, if it ever happens, the rules have no real value and no meaning in this country. However, the induction implies that if the Council decides in a manner above to link Iceland with the EU internal energy market, these rules will be implemented and applicable to electricity transport to and from Iceland for electronic cables. We can't play soccer and be excluded from the rules of wrongness and divisions. However, we can choose not to participate in the game. We can state that while we are not participants in the game, the rules about wrong positions and divisions do not apply to us. While the court society could impose on us the values of the rules of misunderstandings and divisions in general, it could not wave at us yellow or red cards, since we are at home to watch the game. The protocol is legally implemented that the Council must accept this connection, and until then these regulations do not have any meaning and do not implement them. So there's no violation of the contract. We're making the rules. They lie as inactive law code until then and if we choose to connect, we ourselves, with a special decision made by the Generals. Thus, we are not saying one - sidedly that we are immune to the rules. We declare that they will not be made up until we connect, if ever will. I reiterate here that this decision is entirely in the hands of us Icelanders. By the introduction of the rules, we are saying that these are the rules we will follow if and when we choose to participate in the game. The person standing here is one of the so - called skeptics, the ones who described certain doubts over a year ago through the introduction of the third energy package here in the country. In my mind, the most controversial part of this case was, and made it necessary for me to get further explanation for the induction of the third energy directive here at that point, the presence of the Cooperative Commission of the energy market, ACER. The discussion was about whether a government agency was involved. It would be important to note that the Icelanders had full custody of the nation's energy resources, and if it were to allow a sea cable to be laid on Europe, it would be placed on the basis of our Icelanders and the interests of our nation would be guided. During the period since then, the Icelandic government, particularly the State Department and the Department of Employment, and their ministers, have employed a great deal of work in securing and clarifying Iceland's interests. These issues have now become clearer as regards the monitoring authorities in the EFTA countries in the EEA, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. The Contracts of these countries, in accordance with the two support systems, decided to hide these rights to EFTA, ESA, in place of ACER. This has become very clear in my mind. I wasn't good enough for these things at the time. In recent years, much has been discussed here at the council and in committees of the council, as it has been reported in this discussion that this matter has been held for some nine years. It has become crystal clear with all the legal views that have come along and when you have asked many of the jurists who have come with their legal opinion and introduced it in the committees of the council, some have just explained that this was a crystal clear question about the factors that I have discussed in the preceding article. ACER sources apply only to issues involved in the cross-border transport of electrical energy to determine the issues of national monitoring for infrastructure across borders. I restate on the fact that ACER and ESA authority sources in accordance with the guidelines of the third cross-border energy package will not be carried out on Iceland due to legal advance in the Parliamentary Directive. Preservation is that the basis for transporting electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market is not to be constructed or estimated unless it is reviewed on the legal basis of the Regulation. Only after this review will it be carried out with regard to cross-border connections. This is the key to every discussion. The debate at the council and in other parts of the community has not been specifically undergone, based on a major misunderstanding. In fact, men turn their backs and discuss anything but what a third energy pack is all about. To be completely maintained, the person here is not speaking and has never been a special European. Those who know him can confirm this. That's why I made my doubts known about 15 months ago to get these basics straight. That matter has been explained very much during the past few months. Perhaps the most positive issue of the third energy package has been the debate on energy issues in the widest form because humans have been very widely involved in it. A great deal of the actual work being carried out in the energy policy committee on long-term energy policies for the country. The committee has been working for a year, and this energy policy is expected to come in the year. A lot of this discussion back there. The subjects facing the third energy package are relatively simple in this large picture. If people learn what these packages in the European Union are really about, which we've done well for 15 months, they're primarily about energy efficiency. It's a climate thing. It's about using energy better. It can even be suggested that this is a minor safety issue in Europe. Use renewable energy better, wind, solarpane, and such items that need more than the good transport system of electricity. It is actually possible to transfer what the European Union is doing in the big picture, that is, when we speak in Iceland of strengthening Iceland's baseline and using electricity in Iceland better. That's what we're doing with the strength of the ground line. Instead of being able to move about 3◯4% of the produced electricity or up-to-date power of the fortress in Iceland today, we would like to move it up to 15◯20%, that we can move about 15 to90% of the produced energy in the same way as when the home line was built 40 years ago, to the same situation. It is the same ideologies that are being activated in Europe, including with these packages, to strengthen this. In this discussion, I have felt hurt, I have to admit, it was quite painful in April when we discussed topics related to the third energy package, the language shown here that there was no reason to strengthen the Arctic, Northeast, northeastern line as it was presented in this discussion, because it was primarily thought to put energy into the sea cable. At the same time, society in the United States has endured a lack of energy over the last 10 to 15 years. The delivery safety has not been available. There is exactly one of the points in the third energy package, delivery safety, including to the public. There's nothing in Iceland that has to do with that. This is part of that competitive protection. There has hardly been mention of the safety of this discussion. [[Foreground: I.]] Good, good, good. Senator. Here in our discussion, we have often discussed Regulation No. 713/2009 I'm going to read, with the permission of the President, from Skúli Magnússon's office of the U.S. School of Legal Affairs, on a administrative case due to the introductions of 7th, 8 and 9 g. Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 713/2009 of July 13, 2009, to establish the energy market Rapporteur's Cooperative Management Board (ACER). I quote here on page 18. 39 in chapter 11, which says: It is noted that the terms of the third energy package and the sources 7, 8, and 9. Regulation No. 713/2009, take in no way to determine the link between electricity transfers to other countries, such as the fixation of a cable. The sources of resource use, e.g. The continuum transfunctioners. So it is my conclusion that these topics, which are subject to the general EEA conventions for resource management, fall outside the opinion that I have been assigned to deal with and therefore do not have a significance for the administrative authority to produce a so-called third energy package. It's pretty clear. We need to talk about the third energy package to stick to the main element of that matter. It's the transfer of electrical energy into infrastructure across borders. This discussion has taken place in many places. There have been a lot of false talk in general, whether here at the council or in the community on these matters. In conversation, e.g. The officers of our energy have confirmed it to me, they agree with me in that. Finally, I'd like to say, "The sea cable is always in the custody of the Icelanders." The discussion of a third energy pack has taken various forms. For example, in this Hall of Congress, there have been reports that the introduction of the package indicates that the decision to fix sea cables will no longer be in Iceland's custody. Such standards are simply wrong and give them a reason for correction. First, note that none of the third energy package commits Iceland to provide a sea cable for Europe's continent, but such a decision will be made in Iceland's custody. The third energy package has been submitted by a synonym, which makes it clear that the transpiration of an aerodynamic cable will always be subject to the approval of the General Assembly. It should be noted, then, that prior to approval, the Allied must also review the legal basis of the third energy package. Thus, the terms of the third energy package on cross-border links, such as by sea cable, are not implemented until the end of this review. Third, the minister of travel, industry, and innovations has provided a bill to correct the change in electricity laws and the Senate resolution proposal for a change in Congress resolution No. 26/148, however, regarding the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. Changes in the synopsis form require that the linking of the EU's electrical power systems to other countries through a spherical cable is not under way except by the approval of the General Assembly. In addition, it is specifically noted that there must be agreement before sea cable implementation can be carried out on a system plan. This action is thus aimed at drawing frames around the transport of electricity from Iceland to continental Europe and ensuring that, under no circumstances, a cable will be placed here without the introduction of the European government. There is no question about it: The possession of a cable will always be on the custody of the government of the United States and its nation. Everything else is standard. It is important - and this is a fundamental factor - to discuss the third energy package as if all topics in general are based on facts. This is true both in the work of the council and in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u17	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in charge of our alleged duty to lay a cable. I wanted to be a little specific in this regard. The third energy package, in its regulations and directives, contains a specific rural, regional structure. Icelanders have complete control of land structure, the current framework, and the regional structure allows Icelanders to cooperate with other nations to fix sea cables. There is nothing in this, with regard to the framework plan or distribution plan, that obliges us to convene the land, and there is nothing in the regional organization that obligates us in that cooperation to tell us that there is to be a sea cable. We always have no authority to do that, don't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u18	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. This is as the European Union says: Well, we're just going to make a road in Iceland, an airport, or something else - there would be one thing, maybe it's a request. [[Up front.]] This is another example that I've never achieved in this discussion because there are no precedents, since the ACER began its operation in 2011, for some nation's orders: you are to perform energy transport in this way or to activate in this way and for its energy to go here or there. It's all about infrastructure across borders. It's not that complicated. And to say this in the discussion - you must see how wrong this is, what kind of nonsense it is, to think that some institution in Slovenia says to a representative of the country: you are supposed to move energy there, you are supposed to produce it. It's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss what I think is the main thing in the third energy package and what would benefit us here in Iceland most, that's exactly this national programme, a regional programme, which is related to the energy security as such, and that would only be digging in the experience of a dog. A senator in the Eyjafjörður, where there has been a lack of energy. This national programme that we are designed to develop to promote energy security - in fact, a obligation to the government to secure energy security in the country, which is only very good, of course, we want to secure energy security all over the country. On this basis, I think the third energy package is a very good addition to Icelandic legislation. I was wondering which way. A senator sees something in my installation that this is actually a complete addition to the current situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u20	President. It is absurd to say that ACER can somehow decide how to install transport systems or lines in the main transport system of electricity in Iceland. We ourselves have hardly been able to deal with the task by means of the system we have today, such as the driving force. There's a senator coming in. We're trying to work with the system programme, and we actually took it through the energy package, as mentioned in this discussion, which is decided to be the offspring of the third energy package, in case of that. It is clear to everyone that there are Iceland's Icelanders and organisations in Iceland that have this authority, whether it will be the national structure, the system plan, individual rural development, or anything else. It knows all the Icelanders that it's a complicated process and it takes a long time, and people don't run over it in an easy way, as some have said they could. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A senator on the EEA contract like that. Today, this is our most important two - sided agreement, and of it, we know that for about a quarter of our years, there has been a transboundary reconciliation. The induction of this pack of energy may cause the political reconciliation that has established the contract to upset. If, for one reason, governments are forced to introduce something that we are not at peace with, we have a problem. So, then, a senator does not worry that it will be the beginning of the parapolitic agreement that has been established on the contract? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u22	Mr. President. Is it not, therefore, that you are more concerned about what is being made up of in this council hall for this contract and the third energy package? I have to admit myself that I may not have been good enough over the years to defend the EEA agreement, to be one of those who have criticized the right part of the right that's involved in this deal. I'm just at the end of the line to remember what it was like for the EEA deal in Iceland, yet I'm becoming 50 now. I'm much more worried about how people talk about these things. I think it would be very good for our community to take a financial discussion about the EEA Treaty, and the government is working on a government report to that. We also need to give much more discussion about energy, that there will be more discussions in this chamber. That's what I've been pointing to many times. I'm much more concerned about this discussion, it's based on a bit of a mix-up. [[The president calls.]] I am much more concerned with the EEA Convention and the presentation to the nation of mismanagement - in a foreign language, the term "distinguishing," or deliberate deception. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried about these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that what can happen now, if this is to be run through this council, is that it really is about to start to feel bad about the contract, that the peace that has been broken. There's a way to go, to keep this reconciliation, this legal way that we've mentioned here quite frequently, the middle-class members, which is a contractual way, when she's taking the case to the joint EEA committee. Then comes the conclusion, and there is a legal conclusion that cannot be disputed, and it cannot be accused of having gone the wrong way. As a result, the contract should become more settled because it has a means of solving issues. I think that's for sure. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u24	Mr. President. I think we're just going through the right route with the third energy package. It's just that kind of thing. Then we will agree that the right course is being taken. I'm at least. on it. [[Up front.]] The point is, what? A senator, to claim that the matter is being taken up in this matter with some urgency - now I am not a longtime senator, but I doubt that in recent times, there were actually as much publicity in the General Assembly as in this case over nine years. Perhaps the person here played a role in extending this process for a year. Well, that's just the way it is. However, nine years at the council will be considered late. Nine years is a considerable amount of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask the senator. This is two ways, and much of the disagreements are involved, or have done so tonight: Which way will be considered? paritaprevir Does Trausti Friðbertsson agree that loyalty is more likely to take into account the European Economic Convention? I would also like to ask him the question that I have repeatedly asked: " Do I know him for a warning like these once made, and have they thought? Does he know these examples? I've got a warning in front of me that's been playing the signs, even though that information is misleading, but I find it hard to see that they're remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u26	Mr. President. There are two ways to go. A senator mentions, and it seems to me that the discussion was a big deal, back and forth. I think we're going the right way. That's clear to me. If people were to go the other way, they would have had to do so some years ago. This is not the case to trigger an emergency emergency. We should owe it to better use if we are under test. What's going on right now must be attributed to this government. Last funds were placed in 160 million to care for the interests of Icelanders in Brussels. It's this government that sets up the situation, and they deal with it properly. It is important to bear in mind. So when we discuss the fourth energy package and the second issue, we are much better in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may be noted that already groups have been assigned to handle a fourth energy package and what it means for an Icelandic community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u27	V.E.G. President. I have to say, as it is, it surprises me. I know the senator well only as an independent man, and so one of them, what to say, harder independents. It is said in dignity and respect. Regarding the warning I'm asking about, I don't get the answers that anyone knows they've been put and held on to these types. So I'd like to ask you again. A senator may know that such warnings were made and if they had thought so. If so, I can understand that he believes that this is the right way, but I find it hard to understand that he thinks it is the right way when everyone has declared that it's no problem, that everyone has approved, EEA, EU and Iceland. Why not go the legal way and get it moulded into stone there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u28	Mr. President. The Norwegians took eight warning when they agreed to the case in March. On March 22 of last year, five of the eight political parties in Norway agreed on this matter. There are eight survivors. It has been said in this council hall that they did not think. No one's pointed it out, they've just thought. There's never been a word they don't think. On the other hand, it is the right, the left, but it has not been confirmed. I don't know any better than they thought, so it's clear. I don't have time to proceed accurately to the two options. But the Norwegians have built their own warnings, and they have thought, it is clear. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To give the speech to Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. I noticed that he had become a big sponsor and was pleased with the key elements of the third energy package, which is as good as it should be. But there was one thing I specifically noticed, and that was what he said about delivery security. I know well about two areas of territory that have this problem. On the one hand, it is the Akureyri area and the West, where the situation is very bad. It's what it is. A senator seriously until the induction of the third energy package will affect the delivery security beyond what we are working on and working in various places of the administration these days, and miss? There are absolutely new information for me that the drop-down security of electrical energy on the West will be possibly pulled into layer by the induction of the third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u30	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. In fact, there are three locations in Iceland or three areas that have poor supply security or energy security. It's the Eyjafjordy in the North, part of the West and Southnes, Smokeynes. I was talking about this in a bigger context. When you study this package, you are talking about the delivery security of the third energy package, as we have seen. The supply safety is expressed in the third energy package as one of the products associated with the induction process. I'm going to see exactly what this will do for us Icelanders, but I'm pointing out that though it's said, it's because there's nothing in Icelandic law that has been done about it. This is just part of the consumer protection and security, which has to do with this and is a very important point. [[The president calls.]] Me and the Icelanders have not been able to do it for a very long time except just in the southwest corner of the energy system there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I understand that his expectations are not high enough for the induction of the third energy package to produce a fundamental change to the Eyjafjörður area, the West, or the Southnes. I apologize for forgetting to mention Southnes in that context at the outset, but they're obviously falling below. The other thing I wanted to do was to get in on it. A member of Congress is the word of the former chairman of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, who has called it a praiseworthy deception that had to be used to maneuver the matter through the Independence Party. Now I know that the senator was in the troubled department in this regard. How does he convey the words of the former chairman of the class? I know that many deeply entrenched independents find them uncomfortable, floating around during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u32	Mr. President. I'm not particularly concerned about this case. I have no study of what the former chairman of the sect, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, said at some point. I'll sleep for it. I'll have to read it if it's so important. I'm speaking to my own conviction about these matters. I am convinced that the case has been put in such a much better place than it was 15 months ago, which was left here for a very long time at the council and many members of the council, in the governments that have been here since 2010. The matter has changed considerably over the last 15 months during the council discussion. We who had begun to worry about it before 14How15 months ago, while others were less concerned about it - they have been changed for us and other matters that have been used to intervene in the 14◯15 months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u33	A respectable president. It would be tempting to make the talk of the last speaker's talk on the subject because it caused me a little surprise or, in fact, disappointed me. Hv. A senator was one of the few members of the Independence Party, one of whom a man had some hope that he would be on his own in this matter. But then he came here and gave a speech that I wouldn't trust to report to each other's exposé or Conspiracy on this matter, I wouldn't have heard it. A senator delivers the talk himself. However, the next talk must be waited to discuss it further, for I made a small mistake when I was trying to complete the minority opinion of the foreign committee. I started too late in the hearing, and one chapter, an important chapter, they're all important, fell out. Now, a respectable president, I'm going to finish this review of minor opinion at the Foreign Affairs Committee by reviewing the section bearing the effects on the EEA Convention. That is a point such as a person's knowledge of the subject that has been carefully discussed. It has been claimed that the Icelandic government cannot use the sources that the EEA Treaty allows us to refer the case to the European Commission and ask for legal leaves in that area. Such an attitude is deeply concerned about how the Icelandic government draws close to the agreement. The EU's opinion that Iceland did well with the implementation of EU rules, especially previous energy packages, has been used as a reason for the need for a third energy package. Attention is made that Carl Baudenbacher, former president of the EFTA Court, described in a paper he was working for the State Department of State that the right of Iceland to refer to the common EEA committee was certain to exist. In the same opinion, he used to wonder if our cooperation countries would be uncomfortable with it and whether it could affect the EEA community. In support of that, he mentioned his opinion that Iceland and Liechtenstein were viewed by the Norwegians as secondary members of the EEA Convention, and on this basis they expected Norway to be able to work on their cooperation. Obviously, the Icelandic government may not be able to accept such interpretations and provide examples that strengthen its authority. On the contrary, this evaluation calls for Iceland to show that it considers itself a member of the EEA to be on the basis of equality. Furthermore, it is also a reminder that it is important to use the right we have to protect our national interests within the cooperation, as another is interpreted as their subsequent rights. Therefore, using the rights given by the EEA treaties to us is the privilege of strengthening Iceland's involvement in cooperation and the agreement itself for the future. It is apparent that Iceland cannot be a member of an international agreement that is founded on fear of partners to the point that the Icelandic government does not trust to use the rights written in the contract. So I reiterate what I have considered here, a respectable president, to say that it is really necessary for the continuation of the EEA community to do that we now show that we are ready to use the right that the deal gives us, rather than to make a different example, that we, as unfortunately, have heard in all too many speeches in this discussion, do not trust to use the rights written in the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I just missed this section of the minority opinion from another speech. The senator and it was fine that the viewpoint, that part of the opinion, came in here tonight. What I want to ask you is why. A senator learns what we can learn from our previous dealings with the EEA, if I allow myself to simplify it, on matters of opinion relevant to Icelandic interests, in terms of our dealings with this cooperation of our society. Is there any reason for us to be small in us, as a man may hear the voice of the government? Or should we approach our partners on the basis of the strength and position we really believe we have according to our cooperation agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u35	A respectable president. Supporters, let's say the most enthusiastic supporters of the EEA Convention, would like to point out that the deal is, as they say, a living document. This means that he is not always as he was when he was originally accepted but developed. Clearly, he is being accompanied by regulations. We know that. This, however, also points to how a person deals with the contract sets the example and affects the rest. That's how I mentioned earlier that the Icelanders have been, I'm not going to use the word legion, but I'm ready to enforce what was expected of us in general on the basis of the contract, working on the inside, especially in the energy issues where men have gone beyond what was required, has provided an example that the Icelands should not be required on leave. So I say, when things are as controversial as they really are, it is important to use that opportunity to emphasize that we consider the right of the contract to be active. Otherwise, it becomes more and more difficult to make that right already, as I mentioned above, to use it as evidence that we cannot use the right that it has not been used to this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's exactly the two points I wanted to enter in my second answer. On the one hand, the forward - to - set view of the 102 st. which we believe is active, and our right to refer to the joint EEA committee for further processing and, on the other hand, this information that I think has been used as a special support in making a requirement for Iceland's third energy package, as it happens. Then I'm referring to our success in implementing one of the energy packages that we have made it in a far more decisive way than was actually required of us. All of this sounds a bit like all government systems take control of the politicians and issues such as this will result in a life of self - sufficiency. That independent life will be in the minds of many expected to return the fourth and fifth packages to an assembly. The question is, The reason we've done so well is to introduce a second energy package that there's nothing more in the situation than to introduce a third - how do you answer that argument? A senator? However, the view is that since humans have not used the 102rd par. So far, there's no sense in using her now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u37	A respectable president. Of course, these arguments make me feel bad, but they serve as a reminder of the importance of being ready to set an example in the right direction, i.e. setting an example that emphasizes that we have this right, would like to maintain it, and are ready to use it when it is due. In addition, such comments as we heard and read include the following: From Carl Baudenbacher, it's a reminder that this is also a matter of highlighting that we work with our fellow EU members, Norway and Liechtenstein on an equal basis. If we were to agree with the way the government suggests, as defective as it is, for the reason we don't want to persuade Norwegian officials, we would be setting up a very harmful example in the relations of these three countries, the EFTA members of the EEA, and, of course, to weaken our partnership and the contract permanently. If I mention the Norwegians, however, it is proper to note that, in any case, the Norwegian officials may resent the fact that we become our right in this, there is a very large part of the Norwegian, and Norwegian members of Congress among them, the opinion that the Icelanders have this right and that it is desirable that the Icelanders would use it because it will not only benefit Iceland but not so much as Norway to bring this matter to its conclusion so acceptable for both countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u38	A respectable president. It is now beginning to be about 15 minutes in the morning, and we have had this conversation twice before, and we have discussed it here in the last half of the flight. I would like to have the same reasoning as before, " Can I expect to receive any message about how long this discussion will continue tonight? ' Of course, this has only to do with our organization toward tomorrow. V.E.G. The president had made a drawing of it between twelve and one in conference discussions that he could not see how far into the night. It would be interesting to hear what he has in mind in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u39	Mr. President. As mentioned above, we've been discussing these matters yesterday and today, and I think it's going well, and it's as good as the conversation we've expected, upbuilding, and people talking and communicating. It's shriveling slowly on the speaker's record. I think it's fine that we keep going into the night, at least I suggest it with the President. There's no use of the time I came to earlier tonight, to make good use of him. I strongly encourage the president to give it at least some longer time at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u40	A respectable president. Good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. But there's nothing really hard to tell what time this meeting is going to be. There's no need to keep it as a secret or to say, "Maybe four, maybe five, I don't know exactly, just by the way I feel and what's going on. The performance of laughing calls, etc. Yes, I might want to participate and just end a meeting. It's completely unannounced that it's just a guess how long we're supposed to stay late at night. I don't think the President's simply tells us what time a conference is supposed to complete, as usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u41	V.E.G. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Björn Leví, son of Gunnarsson, says that this is now the third time in discussing this matter under the supervision of the president, with nothing but self - determination and a natural demand for an answer to the length of a meeting. I don't think it can be a very dramatic decision that can't be turned around or that can't be taken back to say what time it is to complete a meeting. There are people here, including... I'm supposed to be in committee service tomorrow morning. 8:30 and only the normal requirement for preparing for that work. During a conference, it's probably normal to be here. But I would like to know until the time of the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u42	A respectable president. I wanted to say something. paritaprevir Olsen Gunsdóttir's Gunnarsdóttir that the discussion has been very good and useful, and there have been differences of opinions, and here, many views have come over and over again. The discussion is successful, and there is no reason to keep up - to - date in order to achieve better results. It's always hard to tell how long it lasts. Now it's working well with the oracle file, so I'm no reason to finish and there's no difference between finishing now or after a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u43	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. The members of Björn Leví, Gunnarsson and Jón Þorvaldsson, the son of Peregrin, would do well to know how long this is supposed to last. But I can completely inform the superintendent that we middleclassmen are in good gear with all of this, so we can continue here just until the morning. You don't have to worry about it, we'll discuss a lot of things. But what may be interesting about this is that members of the council worry that the discussion will last a long time. [[Up front.]] I don't quite understand what they're going to do with it. It is easy to see that they are concerned that we are going to have some form of speech, but we are here in an informed discussion. But of course, before tomorrow it's a matter of business. [[The president calls.]] It's simple. The delays in this matter are caused by the governments. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. [[The point is, how?]] They can only conduct their organization in a better way. [[The president calls.]] It's been a terrible birth to bring this matter here at the council. Is that what we're supposed to do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u44	V.E.G. President. Just to make it clear, the senators from all categories, that I think, or most, twice before this discussion about the President's conference board began and asked for consideration for what was then being said. I must say, it is surprising that this is not done, and it is not informed how long a conference meeting should last. But if you smell the case coming through here, you're supposed to meet out the night and until tomorrow during some phase, it's bound to end up on committees. That still says something about the work around this matter, and there is no support for the government and the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u45	A respectable president. It's a matter of arguing after a speech. A senator who spoke here before me. I don't know that all members of the council came here and complained that they were meeting until the night. I'd like to commend a respectable president for a good meeting board. I don't quite understand this presentation. Here we have the opportunity to discuss these matters. There's no one trying to get caught up in it, except for those who want to talk about it. Here's what we're talking about. Þórarinsson He and others are prepared to discuss these matters until tomorrow. I agree with what. A senator, it is wise to do so if we feel that the matter is of the magnitude of our discussion. I'd like to once again commend a respectable president for a good meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u46	Mr. President. This is not for the first and most definitely not the last time a meeting is held and nothing unusual about it, especially when it is important. Understandably, the question is, When might it be possible for a meeting to end? I think it's normal for him to finish at the end of the discussion. Based on the rosary and no answer, it's about 90 minutes, if I count correctly. There are six on the rosary, some in the first talk, others in the second speech, etc. That's 90 minutes plus an answer. It can be communicated in this way. Then there may be others who arrive at the Vocabulary Index, and the meeting may increase accordingly. It's very simple. It's always up to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u47	President. I suppose a respectable president is hard to respect. V.E.G. In the past, the president reviewed his assessment of how long a meeting would be held. I think it's been two hours since it got to the top. The president announced to the council that a meeting would be concluded. You wonder why. Councilmen, some of them at least, seem to want to discuss this important matter under cover of night. [[Up front.]] Do they view this as an act of darkness that would help them not to allow the public to observe? Do they feel better about reasoning on this matter? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u48	A respectable president. There has been repeated statements from members of the Independence Party to the need to discuss this matter in a single concordance. That's why I'm curious, chief. President: It was only yesterday that nothing less than health policy for the next ten years, if I recall correctly, was postponed to take another case on. What is it in this matter that calls for so much compression, that health policy is not sufficient to enjoy the same respect in this room? [[...talking, Bergethor. Why are you talking about...?]] I'm so sorry for getting a divorce. I'm the highest. A president to conduct a meeting in accordance with what was reported here less than two hours ago, hoping that it will be acceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u49	The president does not mean that others would like to speak up about a meeting government. He realizes that it is now late at night and will be up until the night. In view of this and all our circumstances at the council and what lies ahead, the president allows himself to try to continue for a while. The county w. A senator who spoke earlier would be likely to find out how long this could take if they put forth effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u50	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by taking this opportunity and praying to the highest level. Mr President, put me on the rosary, because I'm going to tell a lot of things about this subject. But because one dog. A senator mentioned time management earlier when I urged a respectable president to consider how time management during the council is best handled. V.E.G. However, the president must realize that the administrative body will try to silence the discussion of this matter by leaving it in the shelter of the night, thus allowing it to become a daily necessity to repeat one thing and another matter to be discussed in those circumstances. [[Up front.]] Not only do I reiterate what I said earlier on the importance of the fact that the president is hard to respect and fulfills what he says but he also intends for a more reasonable time management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u51	A respectable president. I present my second talk on this subject and want to start by discussing what has been called the warnings, the alleged warnings, or whatever we would like to say. It was probably out of four today that caused quite a stir among the council members and the representatives who support this issue when that very simple question was addressed in a talk on a news report. Men were shooting from room to room to room to grab all the plates found, but it could be said that three ploughs were merely caught as a limp. First, it is called a report on the Homepage of the Ministry of State, which bears a joint understanding of the value of the third energy package to Iceland, published on March 22, 2019. So it's news of the meeting of Þór Þórðarson's son, the highest. Secretary of State, and Miguel Arias Cañetes, executive director of energy for the European Commission. It was the first row waved as the supposed warnings in a great harei. Then a document also appeared on the website of the Ministry of State on May 10, 2019, the joint EFTA declaration of Iceland's special status, which is, in principle, comparable to what was reported in the State Department's report on the homepage of March 22. The third stipulated was to read a paragraph on page 3, which I would expect, by permission of the president, to be read. Today, it is only those listening to them who appreciate how they will experience the warning given here. Start reading: It is suggested that the General home of the Government to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA on the basis that no cross-border infrastructure is currently available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including the Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 to establish the energy market Cooperative Education Agency, is therefore inappropriate and does not have a reasonable relevance to the country's environment. It sounds like a reason. The head of the State Department is asking me to read on, if the material is available, let me do so in my next talk. But there is really little in this that I think men can sense as a warning in this case. If we look at this with careful criticism, I would like to mention in this context the guests of the foreign committee, experts, the Friðrik Áðriksson Hirst, and Már Stefánsson Motorsson, who have been very much discussed during the discussion, and their opinion. At a meeting of the State Department, they said that they had not seen any advance notice. They had not seen warning, and at that time all three were laid low, and they had seen them. However, they handled the three things that have been flaunted all day, not as a warning, but as a bolt, which is likely to be primarily to a home bridge, as they have been told. I reiterate that the experts we've been looking at in this case had already seen this document and answered questions so that they had not seen any warning. It's a follow-up, I think it's safe to say, which there's no hold on. Today's Senate declarations that there are the grand warnings to save in a corner, in context of the declaration of the former provincial Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, who said, by permission of the president: ▪ It is wrong and reprehensible to resort to deception. In some cases it is a punishment. Yet, deception can be justified, even praiseworthy. Magicists draw rabbits from their plumbing for the joy and satisfaction of others. However, it is mentioned that the Guðladur Þórðarson minister of foreign affairs had to resort to this kind of cow in order to contribute the third energy package to the General Assembly. And the truth is, he deserves full praise as a result. That is a remarkable statement and the attitude of the former chairman of the Independence Party. Of course, it will not be said of Þorsteinn Pálsson, if you sense his position correctly, except that he is very interested in all the steps that you can take that will continue to lead in the direction of the European Union. At any rate, it strikes me to the point where those words are said from that point of view. That is, of course, that is when societal reviews, let us call him, who had the position he had as the former head of the Independence Party and who has been active in the debate about Europe down here to stamp out the way here to get first and foremost a group of members of the Independence Party to denounce what is proposed, the so - called warnings that are here, after who runs to, someone on a website from March 22 or another report on a Web site from May 10 or text in Congress that I must admit I cannot perceive much support. It has been required of our Middle-class members today, and I don't think it's unfair, that a question will be posed to the experts who came before the committee. In addition to the experts I mentioned earlier, the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Motor Stefánsson and some others, it is possible to provide it for others, such as Davíð Björgvinsson's Þór. We just want to ask for it and have made it possible for the simple question to be asked to these experts: Is this enough? Is this what you think is good enough for you and it's for your own good? Is that what you were suggesting? I remind them that these men, and then I can actually only talk about Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson MotorssonMár according to the information I have, responded to the Commission meeting that they had not seen warnings. I reiterate that at the time they confirm that they have not seen the warning, these are the three things. The reason why they are being searched is that these are some of the most outstanding articles in our community on such subjects. As I say, the situation is that these two experts say they have not seen warning. They were all there at that point, the alleged warnings. It will not delay. It will not be so with this matter that it will be very damaging, that one will take the time and ask the experts: Is this what is being held? Are these three warning officers meant to be prepared for today, on the other hand? I think it's worth a round of mail, like a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u52	A respectable president. In view of the problem. A senator mentions the so - called legal warnings that we have found today to be out of existence, so I wonder if they are. A senator has read the statements made by spokesmen of this proposal as legal notice. These statements are very accurate, but they do not speak at all. As an example, I mention it as the highest. Foreign Minister has quoted Miguel Arias Cañete, who will be the executive director of energy for the European Commission, but he and the highest. Minister of the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, apparently, says, by permission of the President: Iceland's energy supply system is currently an isolated system and not linked to an electronic cord between Iceland and the energy system of the EU's internal market. In that light, a large proportion of the third energy package rules, i.e. those involved in the trade and infrastructure of electrical energy across borders, not of value or of any practical significance for Iceland, while there is no electronic cord. This is simply a reference to the absence of an electric cord, that Iceland is an island, and in the absence of an electronic cord, it was not relevant to laws relating to the presence of an electric cord. I mean, it's just some kind of round-and-pass thing, or that's my food. That's what I'm talking about. A senator will agree with me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u53	A respectable president. The answers to these two questions are yes and yes. Now let me explain. As you can see, these comments are highlighted in yellow, the ones that were interesting to me when I read these news reports on the Office of State. Let's start with the March 22, issue of a common understanding of the value of the third energy package to Iceland, after a meeting at the highest level. The minister of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son and the Spanish Cañete - let's try to figure out how to pronounce the good man's name so that we don't wear it here all night long. It was interesting for me to see such wording as something to be involved in using the terms of the English energy system, which is at the same time the U.S. System is being isolated. It's a line men have already thought about how they'll come out of later. And then there's the words, "Where there's no value or practical significance for Iceland, while there's no electronic cable. This means that people are looking ahead in time, and of course, it is always good to ask themselves, " And then what? ' What happens after you plug in? The same is true in the May 10, the so-called EFTA declaration for Iceland's special status -- that is the same wording with small jar dunes around it, the same as it stands, and then there's no electronic cable. All of this depends on the fact that there is an easy time to speak out of these householdly explanations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u54	Mr. President. They said that there were other partners, the highest. Secretary of State and the former Cañete. They named EFTA, ESA, in relation to ACER. This, too, is evidence that has greatly referred to the supporters of the case. But let's see how that is said and how it compares with reality. In the future, if the basis for crossborder design is set up, the EFTA, ESA, has a decision-making authority on cross-border issues rather than ACER. This has been agreed with the relevant adaptation text for the joint EEA, No. 93/2017, of May 5, 2017, reflecting the independence of the institutions EFTA under the two supporting framework of the European Economic Area Convention. That's what I'm talking about. A senator actually agrees that ESA or ACER had nothing to do with this because ESAs are a mediator? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u55	A respectable president. The mailman, however, has nothing to do with the content of letters I sent to my developers. Of course, in this rule of action, it can be read either directly or directly between the lines, as often required, that the ACER will, of course, be the real expert on which ESA decisions will be based. It's just like today, when you're trying to figure out the final owners of an enterprise. It's the same thing. He who controls the text used to sit at ACER, not with ESAs. Of course, that is what matters in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I just want to have a word with him about a cable, which is a very important factor in all of this, if it doesn't add to that foreword - why don't we just call him the lost warning? Well, we have not yet been allowed to see him study them in a paper, which is very special, and we may point out that this is not taken very seriously on the part of the government. With regard to the premium that no sea cable can be placed here, except by the permission of the Generals, it can't be recognized. A senator, that as soon as national inactivation feels it is appropriate to sell energy to this common market, which we will commit by bringing in this directive, they will ask that the law be removed, only when they observe the possibility, it is useful for the company to sell energy through a sea cable? It'd be nice to get a guess. It's for a senator. Because I'm convinced that there will be national stakeholders who will be pressing the pressure to put a cable out of this place. [[The president calls.]] I don't think people have to worry so much about it coming from Europe. [[The president calls.]] I think it'll be the other way around. [[The president calls.]] There may be a secondary point, but it would be good to get an opinion. It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. I don't think anyone has to doubt that the interest of the major manufacturers at home is quite significant in getting into the environment of selling electricity through sea cables to foreign countries. I agree with the senator as to the fact that I think the pressure will probably be higher from home than from abroad. Yet, I still feel that the pressure is likely to become considerable outside. In effect, this situation puts in a special context what is stated in Regulation 713, which, by permission of the president, says: The Member States shall work closely together to remove business barriers through electrical energy and natural gas across borders in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. It is claimed that the ACER has no place to pressure Iceland to open up to interested people. But when it is stated in the Regulation that Member States are to work closely together and remove business barriers by electrical energy, it should not be surprising that not everyone is calm about this wonder.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A good answer from a senator. I just don't think that this discussion of how precious it is for the European Union to have access to cleaner energy. As I mentioned earlier this evening, energy issues in the European Union are making them use large amounts of fossil fuels and, as we know, they tend to be at a reduced dose in the future, as well as climate, major issues today, called for significant reductions in fossil fuels emissions. So we become increasingly important to the European Union. That's why I think we should be very careful about enforcing such a directive because it gives the European Union more readily access to our clean energy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I agree with the senator that in this matter we should hurry. Thus, it is a vital issue that although a small matter was yesterday breaking up a discussion of health policy until the next ten years, the issue will be discussed. This, of course, puts it in a special context. Not long ago. The minister of the State of Guðlaugur Þórðarson declared that he saw the possibility of delaying the matter to the autumn, so that the badge and real speed of time is nothing. It's a home-made problem. I'm afraid the problem lies primarily in the fact that part of the case here at the council is a bit forced to swallow it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. I'm not an experienced man here at the council. Yet, I have associated with various activities that would be considered social, social, and confidential work for a town for some time. I have to say, about my work, as it is, that I expected more of the High Council. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator on this notice. This is where the government has claimed to me that they're all in the way. On the one hand, it is said: "There are declarations. " Second, they say there is a bill for law from the highest level. Industrial, travel, and innovation ministers, and third, from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, explain completely on page. 3 of the committee's opinion. Legally, I have not seen at any contract ever begin with the words of this statement: 'How will this proposal be approved,' or'supposed, to be the decision made by the Allied Parliament'; Am I really missing this game here with the Council and the Law and the form, that it matters? Are these the legal warnings? Has this been signed by people who really know the law and can tell us what it is? Is this something that works? Is this something that's gonna think? I asked earlier, and it was a member of the management team who made it known to me that the Norwegian people had been warned about the same issue. [[The president calls.]] It won't be effective until the whole EEA has approved this. [[The president calls.]] They haven't been tested. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me on this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u61	A respectable president. There's a lot to consider about gestures and reactions. The incident that took place here in the middle of the day, probably around the clock. 4, when members of Congress, to me, seemed to be members of the Independence Party, ran from side rooms to side rooms and across the hall to look for warnings, suggesting that they had to be found at the scene, which, of course, explains that a half an hour later they had three different warnings. There's a lot of paperwork here, and here's a priority, and we got on the Internet and we found some warning. It was all very strange and unfaithful. I just can't believe that the senators are in the place of wanting to finish this case without calling for the opinion of the experts to see if it can be what it is. Our good experts came before the committee, the Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst and Már Stefánsson, and I believe that the entire body of Congress has considerable confidence in them. According to my information, they told a meeting of the State Department that they had not seen any warning. All of this lay ahead at that point when that question was answered. And if they don't appreciate it as a warning, I don't trust me to count it. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u62	V.E.G. President. I'm very thinking about it. When the proconsul of the Independence Party, a group of foreign ministers, points in one direction, and at the same time, the chairman of the State Department of State and an independent party, in another direction, points in a different direction, but then the third man from the Independence Department, waving a bill to law from another Independence Minister, and all of the facts that this is a warning, this is a warning, I don't really know what to think. That's what I have to say after all the rebukes we've been making, middle-class, about raising fear, that's all the questions we've raised, you know, just cut one thing in relation to this kind of work. It's really being born of fear. How can people put their trust in this if these are the practices expected by the High Council? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Could it be this way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u63	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u64	A respectable president. I have answered a similar question or have established a similar subject in a talk before. I'm sorry, but I often have a feeling that events related to induction and that have its beginning in the EEA Convention, the European Union, often appear to be small skates. That is all we need to go through and see how most of these topics are discussed. It's a lot of assembly work and stamping, unfortunately. I don't know if this would work out in a similar way. A man watched from a distance as a form of warning was being made in relation to the first layer that affected Icesave obligations, and it was worked in a completely different way than it is now being done. [[The president calls.]] It was a legal premise that was then being built into a bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u65	Mr. President. Then I'm going to go back to my previous talk, and I didn't get it done here. Next, I'm going to take steps to take into account the words of a industrial minister who said about this advance that this would not be an influence where the law would allow for no sea cable to be placed except by the warrant of the General Assembly. What is interesting, too, to those words. In effect, the Minister of Industrial Affairs is making a promise to other political groups who have fallen unafraid, per se, for this third pack of energy and accept it. There are sorties like the Conspiracy and the Pyroms. Then, in all of this, it is of interest that some political groups actually declared their support to the energy package and this synonym before an order was submitted to the General Assembly, before the Senate documents came to light. It's just amazing work. I must now say, Mr. President. If we are only involved in the Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of No. 713/2009, which is part of the energy package data, says that Member States should work closely together and remove business barriers with electricity and natural gas across borders in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. The problem of removing obstacles is as clear as it could be. It will be considered to achieve the objectives of the Community on energy levels. What are these goals? Yes, it is this common market, the joint energy market in Europe, which is rapidly moving toward the need for pure energy. This is especially why we are highly desirable in the European Union. That there will be the future of pure energy, which we will truly need because they in the European Union are trying to cut down fossil fuels and deal with climate conditions like all of us. This has only been seen by the European Union's drawing of maps that can be seen in sea cables from Iceland to Europe. It has been stamped with a plunger from Brussels and is expected to be with the government's approval here without any evidence of it. I think the European Union doesn't make such a map unless you consult with Icelanders or Icelandic government before. So that's where we find these objectives of our alliance very clear to us. In this regard we must bear in mind that by means of this induction, we are paying the very price for the European Union's objective that they gain access to our clean energy. It contains this energy package. It does not in itself have this significance now, but it will be important when a cable is laid and it is shorter than many. Technologies in these topics have also been reported here that I believe that the pressure is coming from home, from Iceland, that there will be stakeholders in Iceland, who are pressured to become sea cables. I agree with what. Ólason I am convinced that the pressure will also be from Europe, but it will especially be from here. All we see is the process that took place in the meat business. We saw clearly the pressures of interest stakeholders in Iceland, that's the store and the whole dealers, etc. Business and service organizations fought that here came raw meat from the European Union and worked for the final victory. It took approximately ten years, showing that this fight is successful. I'm sure that this will be the same with the cable. He will come, we shouldn't say in the next 10, 12 years or so, even earlier. And then there are no obstacles because we have prepared the soil. And if there's ever any law against which this legal entity, which is very vague, I think, is pretty clear that there will be considerable pressure at home on which those laws will simply be changed. Then we have sacrificed this precious quality of life to Icelanders, to live with clean and inexpensive energy. Then it is grueling to think that we have already sacrificed it in our oppressive land. Then there are these key arguments of those who support this case, argument like it doesn't matter to us, as strange as it sounds. Yet, this emphasis is placed on hurrying the introduction of this matter. I agree with what has been said here that big issues such as health policy, which has been waiting for years, are put aside just so that the matter can be discussed into the night, as we have seen. It is very strange that this discussion should continue until late into the night under cover of darkness. A discussion that is of great importance to the nation, and the people have shown that they do not agree with what is proposed by the political parties and those of the ringleaders, who are, of course, the Controversies, Pirantar, and the Revolution. The fact that this is discussed here in the cover of darkness is naturally indistinguishable and shows that the work of the Generalis really needs a revision. I think it would be advisable to discuss why such an urgent matter is so important. I think that's something you have to wonder about, to the highest level. The president will have to consider whether such practices are acceptable to the nation's head. To discuss one of the biggest issues that have occurred in recent years in terms of the European economy and our participation in it in this way. I must say, Mr. President, there is a process that should not be tolerated. I'm sorry I haven't finished my speech, so I wish to be reassigned to the rosary, Mr. President, and continue with the rest of the material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson looks forward to hearing what is left of her. I just wanted to talk to him about what he came into his talk, this directive. 36th. The directive says that a surveillance authority should be made by permission of the President: ▪ Any appropriate measures to achieve the following within their relative boundaries and domains...to eliminate the restrictions in business through electricity between Member States, including the Member States. to develop an appropriate cross-border transport capacity to support demand and improve integration of national markets which can facilitate electrical flow within the Alliance. This is one of the things that have been pondered here in this energy package, which may make you wonder if the EU aims to connect countries - do I understand that correctly? - and improve the chances of moving electricity from one country to another, where there's a lot of electricity over to a smaller area. Perhaps more than that, transporting clean energy into an area where unclean energy may be greater, i.e. Energy produced by fossil fuels or nuclear power. Maybe I'll come in on it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think he's right, how he sees it. It's no secret. This is the European Union energy policy. It'll be the free flow of electricity like a product and service, it's just part of the four freedoms. I think the point of this matter to us in particular is the pure energy. It becomes ever more precious each day. We know that. It has to do with the natural climate change that all the nations face and pollutant vapors, which are increasing each year. That's why it's very important to have access to cleaner energy. As I've traced my speech, this is the goal of the energy package when you look to us. That they can access our clean energy, the European Union. Then we have lost our unique position. We know that it is the market law. When people see a lot of interest in selling energy to the European Union, companies such as Landactivation and others, there are private companies in the energy sector that would, of course, see their interests in transporting energy out, only the law of the market. It's demand and demand and price. [[The president calls.]] It'll be less in the system here at home, which means you have to pay more for the electricity and your home needs to pay higher prices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u68	V.E.G. President. So I noticed in a talk. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, spoke of the pressure on the sea cables and came into it following a talk. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son that he might be higher here in Iceland than from outside Europe, although there would be pressure on him from outside of Europe. Then I would feel that if there was a considerable pressure on both sides to put a cable on the ground, it would have been ideal for the induction of the third energy package. If this is the case, the government's use of the cable is now low. It may be that this is something that is causing this to be pushed more than reasonably, including of the highest. Mr. President, are you going to be quick to finish the case despite the fact that no one is dead?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think you're quite right on this. You wonder, Mr. President, why this case is run through like this. Is there any pressure in the community to run this issue through from some stakeholders? Of course, you hope you do not, but you cannot help but wonder. We can see this only in the fact that this important issue that will affect the whole nation for the future, and future generations will be discussed here in the night and other matters, as we have mentioned, health policy, pushed aside. This is where members of Congress have to be in committee duty tomorrow morning. 8:30, starting at 2:30 in the morning. [[The president calls.]] This work is in a way that undeniably raises questions. It's just that it has to be said at the moment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u70	A respectable president. Senators are beginning to make a practice of thanking the public for talks and objections, even when there is no special occasion. Now, though, I feel that there is a special reason to thank for an extremely good and extensive speech. A senator would have a very short time to make provision. In fact, it was extensive, and I had many questions raised that I hardly really know where to start. At one point in the sermons of the day. A senator would think of a famous word for herself. paritaprevir The son of Jón Gunnarsson, who fell here in a pit all too many years ago: When Communism and freedom meet, freedom has to go. I hope I'm on the right side, chief. President. The reason for this to come back to me is why. A senator mentioned the European Union's goals and how ready it is to go far to make sure that they are successful. Now I do not have to compare the European Union to the Soviet Union. We have only often seen that once the European Union has set its goals, it is imagined that vague warnings in a link or report need to be replaced when it meets the EU target. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with my opinion that in view of the high importance of the European Union on energy, and to increase access to cleaner energy and connect Europe's energy system, these so - called warnings will be of little value to them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I wholeheartedly agree with him on this, and there is no evidence that the European Union is deeply impressed by warnings in general. If granted, they are almost exclusively granted through this joint EEA committee. To me, it is a fantasy in the government's mind that there will be some forebears accepted without complaint on the European Union's ways. That won't happen. It's perfectly clear to me. What's remarkable about this is that I think that because of that, and I'm convinced that, how important this project is to the European Union that this free flow of electricity on Europe becomes a reality, one market and access to cleaner energy, it will consider us to be a lot of allies in these topics and will not start staging us if we make this case for the joint EEA Commission and the request for a release there. On the contrary, the relationship will try to cooperate in our efforts to make sure that we simply do not cancel the agreement. There is something, I think, which would be a huge shock to the European Union, especially in the light of the energy issues, if we were to disappear from this contract. He matters to us, and he cares. That's why I think that government terrorism, that the deal is upset, etc., has no evidence to support. I just agree with what. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u72	Mr. President. Good to hear I've understood why. A senator on this matter. But this raises further questions, to raise questions about what power might be made in the case of this government, why this government should decide at this point to show this permissiveness, especially in view of the continuing ministers of the Independence Party. For a long time, the name of that class gave certain clues as to where his emphasis was put. However, the group is now driving on a case that may be best carried out by groups that are not even part of a government and often seem to have greater loyalty to the European Union than to at least I'd define national interest. [[The president calls.]] What can cause this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. This is a good question. What causes this? What's strange about this case is, like, what's wrong. A senator mentioned here how much the independence party puts into this matter. Not long ago, the head of the pack was giving a talk to which he found this package of energy for protection. The Chairman's business is truly unique. Then you come back to it: Is there something we haven't heard about that that that is important in this process, so that people keep driving it in this way? Of course, that is what you ask yourself. But there is also the subject of another speech, later in the night, involving the left green in this matter. Then we see a very small number of candidates in this discussion, despite the news that the grass roots of the Agency are very opposed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. I was pleased with the talk all along, and in the chapter in which he mentioned reasons for concern over the European Union's reactions, I began to think about the terror propaganda that was thrown out of this country in connection with the Icesave case just ten years ago. The people said that Iceland would be Cuba, someone named North Korea, and some more of the most unhappy parts of this world, that it was fate that lay ahead of us. For fear has not come to me in the place which is good in this matter; but long shall man try, it is not all night out yet. I've seen quite a few people as if it were the main argument, the core point, that the EEA deal will be compromised if we don't break down and bend as the communicators wish. Hv. A senator came in part. Does he appreciate the evolution of logic as we may have some presence in mind comparable to Cuba of the North and North Korea? Carl Baudenbacher, e.g. is one warning message through which appears completely wronged his position which was identified in connection with the Icesave case. [[The president calls.]] They're putting on some stage that I don't personally care about. [[The president calls.]] What's the senator's position?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I have just wondered, " Why do people drive the matter this way and make a move to scare the people a little to obedience in this case, which I think is very sad? ' Keep in mind that the opinion of the State Department buys from the former judge of the EFTA Court - which in itself is just a contractor who sells his work, that is not unusual when men have served such places, especially in the United States, they sell their services in this way - is legal. It's not political. That's why I don't think we have to worry about it very much. It is clear in my mind that the European Union needs as much of the EEA contract as we do. They won't put him in any special danger, they won't make that journey, because, as I've mentioned here, we have our precious pure energy that is not available in the European Union, so let's keep it in mind. It is clear that there is a reason why this sea cable has been drawn from Iceland to the European Union. Where does this take the initiative? It comes from the European Union and, of course, with an approved government. [[The president calls.]] The idea and the ideologies is to get this clean energy from Iceland. [[The president calls.]] They will, of course, pay for it. They will pay a great deal of money that we will be tempted to sell. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This will increase electricity prices to the public in the country and the companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer for the answer. That's one of the things many people worry about in all of this. I don't have the review of the Bakara Union of Iceland, I think the company's name is definitely hot, but our bakers have expressed a lot of concern. They even came. At a meeting of the State Department of State, I returned a review that I should have brought with me but is not in. My question to why. A candidate's viewpoint is on the merit of electrical energy at an individual market and on the other hand against smaller companies. How does he likely feel about the implementation of the energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u77	Mr. President. As for the development of electrical prices after the introduction of this package, we will see changes immediately, some increases. We don't know how much. There is some 45% increase in monitoring costs for energy companies, i.e. They have to pay 45% higher than they do today. A review of HS Power and other companies shows that these increases will go into the prices. They say it's direct. We'll see an immediate rise. Above all, the increase will be significant when the cable is in place and the energy will be sold to Europe. It will be a complete change in our quality of life to have access to cleaner and inexpensive energy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u78	Mr. President. Fallpower is one of our most important resources, if not the most important. Of this, all of us can agree. At the beginning of the last century, we began to activate this resource. From the middle of the last century, we Icelanders began to build major workers and sold the energy then harnessed to a major industry. From the very beginning, the idea was that when this huge investment compared to our small society at that time was realized, the people would enjoy the fruits, and the inhabitants would look forward to a better and lower energy calculus. Later, there were more major and industrial wars, in fact most of the production of the same product, but we agreed on it would actually be sacrifices worth offering where the next generation would benefit. The giants were owned by the nation as well as by the distribution system, and we have enjoyed that electricity is relatively inexpensive here, and we are to protect these valuables that previous generations have built up in our behalf for the long future. Mr. President. This is at the General Parliament's resolution proposal to introduce the third shipment of EU energy law. Thus, he has entered the General Hall for a second discussion of this multimedia third energy package, which many have strong opinions about. This package, if I may use it a word for the proposals for Congress and billing that we are about, is by no means easy to read, much less easy to understand. According to the proposal, the Council of the Council agrees with the Government to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017 of May 5, 2017, of change in IV. An appendix on energy, with the EEA contract from May 2, 1992, and log into certain types of the contract. There are also four European Parliament regulations, two directives and two decisions made by the Commission to change and add to the annex to the specific European Parliament regulations. This punctuation proposal is subtracting a so - called governmental notice. The Conspiracy proposal presented here is that in its agreement with the Generals that Iceland commits itself to rid itself of the administrative notice we made for the joint EEA committee. This administrative company is going on that Iceland had flaunted the EEA committee to show that recording of the terms needed for the arrival of the U.S. legislation Council, i.e. approval of the Generals. This decree, Mr. President, is actually a resolution by Iceland's legislature that nothing is in the way or may be prevented from fulfilling its regulations and thus becoming valid in our country. This is the commitment that we will face with the approval of this synonym if it is the case here. It's the commitment. When finished, Iceland is committed to implementing the products below the energy package and making the necessary legal adjustments within the country so that the materials of the package become fully available in this country. This is going to be the best. A government to do here or this stands to do. Mr. President. They're going to do this legally. What is it and who is it? That's how someone might ask, and in fact, he's been asking here today. According to the board of directors, who is the legal guardian? It is that the law code is not fully valid here in a country where we are an unplugged electrical network in other European countries. It is strongly suggested that the European Commission's Commission of Energy said that Iceland was an island and, considering it, a large part of the third energy package does not have value or practical significance for Iceland while there is no electronic cable. The protocol, that's Regulation No. 713/2009, should have no significant effect on Iceland's energy capital. It then points to the common EFTA declaration of the 8th of May. in a similar way. It emphasizes that Iceland's electrical energy system is currently - yes, at the present time - an isolated system, not linked to an electronic transboundary cable between Iceland and the European Union's energy market. In this light, a large proportion of the third energy package, which is involved in cross-border exchanges, does not have value or practical significance in Iceland. There is no doubt, Mr. President, that the declarations I was here to mention, these two declarations of common understanding, are not nationally binding documents. To that end, it is essential that both the EU, the European Union and the EFTA countries agree. This agreement must be added to the EEA agreement. Before possible, the parties, which are all EU Member States and the EFTA countries, must discuss the matter. This process has not occurred and the proclamations, therefore, at the highest level, fall of air-like dreams that will have no bearing on the ESA, the EU Court or the EFTA Court. Are they serious? Is it acceptable, Mr. President, to sell the nation's induction of this order and then to tell the people in some form of atonement that there is a legal premise which is really nothing but the fact that Iceland is an island, so that we must put a sea wire in order to connect with the European electric market? Mr President, are they serious? Is that legal? Am I supposed to believe that? Is this the legal guardian to address all human anxieties? If there's anything wrong with me, I'll be advertising here with the legal guardian and where to find him. Mr. President. One thing is certain that by removing the administrative warnings, we are committed, yes, committed, to implement the rule of the third energy package. According to this, a so - called legal agent is at best in this context, and it can be said, in effect, that he is new in the field of illusions. In this way Iceland commits to introduce the rules, but in this country, it says that some of these rules will not apply in this country until certain events happen. To argue that this method of induction grants us freedom from the induction, some of these rules, is therefore a major misunderstanding, Mr. President. Yesterday at that same meeting, it became tangible to see where this legal warning was found in the book. Mr. President. The answers were humble, and it was found that the emperor was not wearing any clothes. First, talks were presented as the highest. The secretary of state was referring to the Commission of Energy in the European Commission and there was the legal defence, it would be there. I've studied it here earlier in my speech. Then it was pointed to the EFTA declaration that it contained this legal warning. I've been over it. The third explanation was that the legal warning was found in the bill for changing the electronic law. If this change is considered, then 5 mg is being added. Count 9. - law for what? In fact, almost universal laws already exist in the electronic law at 39 C.E. a. What is that? The fourth explanation was that this would later be inserted into a special Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u79	Right away for your induction protocol.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u80	Where is this Regulation? [[Up front.]] Mr. President. The conclusion is that governments do not agree on the legal situation. Their answers indicate that he is no one. It seems that it is being used in wording to put the matter in a more attractive costume, and when it is unveiled, there is no content. Protocol EB, No. 713/2009, however, will be in force in Iceland if the Congress resolution proposal we are here on will be accepted. In Regulation, No. 713/2009, it is assumed that ACER can make legal binding decisions that focus mainly on the bases of electricity that could link two Member States. As regards the EFTA state, it is assumed that the EFTA monitoring facility, ESA, will have the authority given to the ACER in the Regulation. One of the biggest opinions and one of the factors that the jurists consider to be a subject of doubt, whether such a power agency is standing by the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, this is the point. As noted, ACER is expected to have a major impact on the content of such ESA decisions and ESA decisions should include: based on a decrease in ACER interval for ESAs. This is one of the big questions as to whether the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland will be met, i.e. whether it is giving such power to the international agency I just mentioned, that this institution, which we have no access to, ACER, actually makes these decisions. About negotiations, Mr. President. It can be said of contracts, large and small, that they are all equal types in favour of both parties and that both parties are reasonably satisfied. The big deal, like the EEA Convention, is good for all its partners and for all who come to it. To argue that a equally large contract is in turmoil, we do not agree with a Regulation made long after the original agreement is made unattractive. As we do today, it is for the greater good in everyone. Therefore, he should be upset if we Icelanders are skeptical and want to be sure that the appendixes are in harmony with our constitution and are looking for a reserve, as part of the rule work may not apply here on land. Is that unusual? We have. Why wasn't it done in this case if a cable doesn't lie here? In 1st. 1st par. The contract shows that his aim is to promote the steady and economic growth of business and agreements with the same competitive conditions as with the same rules in terms of forming a unique European economy, i.e. EES. Mr. President. The Council of Iceland, as the legislator of the EEA Member States, is not the appropriate facility for making changes, setting a minimum or legal notice on the implementation of the EU Member States which is not involved in the decision of the joint EEA committee. It's just that simple. No legal advance talk is appropriate. Not here, not unless it's taken care of at the Committee. It's just that simple. Substitution is given to countries on the value of the species solely in decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee. They will not be made by legal warnings in the national rights. It is the Commission that decides on this decision if the EU does not have value against individual countries, as are many examples and have been referred to here in previous speeches, such as railways and canals and gas pipes and all that is not applicable in this country. And this has not been recorded in Icelandic. We've been given out. Why not in this field, in the field of electricity between countries, when the fact is, Mr. President, that there is no sea cable that can lead to electricity and is not exactly in front of us in the near future? Then why are we doing this rule? Mr. President. Four. 102st. The EEA Convention tells us that if changes in the Annex to the EEA Convention cannot be made, despite the application of a previous paragraph, the joint EEA Commission shall investigate all the additional possibilities of ensuring continued good implementation of the contract and making necessary decisions, including: to admit that legislation is comparable, such a decision must be made no later than at the end of a six-month period since the case is referred to by the European Commission or at the validation date of the corresponding legislation of the Community or later. Mr. President. Why don't we take advantage of that route? Isn't that obvious? To say that it was never done in the 25-year history of the contract is a prerogative. It is too natural for the EEA parties to use the resources contained in the contract itself, even if they have never been new before. Mr. President. At the end of my case and the reference to what I've been saying, mainly about this legal advance and that this form will be referred to the committee, I'm surprised that the management team will continue to run this case by the overforcates being here and will do so. I'm surprised. I am also surprised that the legitimate questions, such as those on the legal notice, have been raised, and I have explained in my own language what I am not. I don't see this legal advance, and I haven't had an explanation for it. The case is run through, even though most comments to the State Department were negative. The positive ones were predominantly institutionalists. Even if there are strong oppositions among the people, as shown in surveys, even if there are strong opposition within the sides of the government, even though there are strong oppositions among the rulers who support the case, this case is run through and is to run through at night. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for handing out speech Hv. In his speech, a member of the Parliament introduced the proposal to the council that the Minister and Government will introduce a three - pack of energy. I couldn't agree with that. But -- and it's bigger than in this matter - that is, of particular reasons given. The premise is that part of that induction is a legal warning. Hv. A senator made it very clear that these legal defenses are in a rudimentary shape, even though members of the council have striven to appear in a public office and declared that they are completely bulletproof and obvious. I can't see that, chief. President, that the legal defenses that have been presented are first explained or bulletproof, much less agreed on who they are. One thing is certain, to the highest. Secretary of State hasn't been here and described who they are. [[The president calls.]] If this is what is called legal warnings on page 3, the warnings that are to be taken up in a formula are pink. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u82	The President is still on trial for what? Senators are worthy of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the question. If you can understand that the legal defenses of these men and EFTA countries from May 8 and if you read that statement, then at best it's the natural thing to talk about is that Iceland is isolated and it doesn't have a sea cable and it's not predictable, etc. So, in my opinion, it is easy to say that it will not be valid in Iceland until it is. Of course, there is no law on something that does not exist. It would be similar if we were to take up the EU Regulation on bears and say that this would be done legally because there were no bears in the forest. Of course, it would be activated and the first such bears would come here. We couldn't say, "We're on notice, this isn't happening. ' Of course, it will take effect as we dissuade from the governmental warnings regarding such a type, just as it did in this case. As soon as a sea cable, requesting it, it will be activated with full force. Then we'll have problems with ACER, as I mentioned in a speech, and the ESA and the context between the two strains that are dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u84	V.E.G. President. This has been the case with reasons why this route is chosen, i.e. a defective route or not faultless, like the one legally established in the EEA Convention, is that this has never been done in the 25-year history of the contract. But what are we doing here? How many times have we introduced a pack of energy in the 25-year history of the contract? Is it not the living document that changes? Is it not safe to estimate that, although it has not been previously sent back to the joint EEA Committee, it can be used as close as possible to whenever the terms of the agreement, new or old, are being discussed here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u85	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right about what you're talking about. paritaprevir The second and inferior route was chosen for Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. In the opinion of Professor Stefán's Már Stefánsson and Professor Friðrik Árni Hirst, they suggest that this will simply be rejected and sent back to the joint committee and are tempted to obtain access. That is still an opportunity, and I encouraged my speech to take the case there. I think it's normal. We are faced with very serious questions, Mr. President, and I don't think we're doing this at four o'clock in the morning. Many senators were taken off the rosary earlier this evening. To a large extent, this matter is beyond discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a really good speech. It is a sin, in effect, that as rich as it is in the evening when less are being observed than when daylight is available. There were a few points in a talk. A senator I'd like to come on. But there are two things that I cut the most. Hv. A senator placed in the historical context of the construction of Landing, the electric distribution system, and so on. We see and hear in the community that the public is deeply concerned about this matter. I wondered if part of people's concerns is not exactly what seems to be all - out in this market development, that the ultimate goal is that land induction is no longer in the state. Of course, such goals are not written into any document connected with a energy package of one, two, three, four or five, or what they will be, but such goals may be underlying for long periods of time and may be small steps toward it. I want to hear what's going on. A senator to see if he thinks this is part of the public's opposition to this matter is so alone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir And Bergþór, the Bergeth Ólason for the question. There's no doubt about it. This campaign was under way for a senator of historical record. During the 1960's, when it was decided to engage in major operations and to provide energy for the industry, there was great conflict. It was very exotic in that society that was here in the middle of the last century and that carried out on a vast scale at that time. Of course, it is rich in the nation and their awareness. The activations and distribution systems that were built there. It would take decades, but once we paid off the basic cost, electrical prices would decline. Then there were just the second, the more monumental and even more efficient distribution systems. Of course, they are very interested in having built this up for decades. That's why we're very, very people, we're supposed to express stress over the laws we're dealing with. Mr. President. Our responsibility is great. We have nothing to do with it at four o'clock in the morning. We're discussing this in a second discussion of two. She started yesterday, and we're going to finish her now at four o'clock in the morning. I don't think that's a lot of respect for the nation. When research shows that the 60,480% of the people are opposed to this issue, I don't feel respected for the country that this case is not over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. The other thing I wanted to come on, perhaps in view of my former employment and education at the same time. There was no question about the fact that he had little faith in the alleged warnings here flaunted in every direction. I must admit that I had been overlooked in all the running of the lndependence Department here at noon that the fourth warning had been flaunted and that he should have been in the prime minister of industrial law for changes in electrical law. I'd like to hear briefly about the senator's position to see if the addition to the alleged fourth warning is much like a thin butterfly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u89	Mr. President. I'm surprised if there's another alarm that popped up. I mentioned, I think, four. Is there more?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u90	No, it was fourth...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u91	These are suggestions, I wouldn't want to call it in advance unless we get it absolutely crystal clear, as we've called out for, Mr. President, and few experts who can guide us in it. We've already had suggestions on at least Four legal hearings from most likely four different members of the administration. They've been up in a pit, one by one, all day, and they've suggested where and where this notice is and where to find it. It's kind of funny, Mr. President. I would like to remind Mr. President that, of course, it was so before midnight tonight, perhaps between ten and midnight, when the president declared that the meeting was about to be concluded and we could finish it very soon that they would look to it perhaps at midnight or at one time, Mr. President. I know that there were men who took off the rosary with the confidence that a discussion would be postponed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a really good speech. I'd like to agree with what's been said here, but it's sad that she's moved in the middle of the night and the public can't listen to her, but hopefully later. She was really good, and there was a lot of things that mattered. What I wanted to step aside and have thoughts from it. A senator is the declaration made by the Secretary of State, the joint declaration of the State Minister and the Commission of Energy for the European Commission, which attracts the value of the third energy package to Iceland, as well as the joint statement of the EFTA countries. In the light of previous employment, why? A senator as a businessman for a number of years and a law degree: How do such warnings work? Is it not too dangerous for such a precautionary approach to be tried, they have any value towards, for example, Is that true of courts? It's a little strange that, all of a sudden, these statements appear, I think, at the State Department's Web site, and I suppose it was a minor crisis on the part of the Ministry and the Supreme Ministry. Minister to get this thing out of the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u93	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. Regarding the warnings, Mr. President, we are wondering where to find this legal warning, and there are four factors. I'll name one and read him a little bit. It's the warning that came to a meeting of the highest order. Secretary of state and executive of energy at the European Commission on March 20, 2019, Miguels Arias Cañetes. It says: Iceland's energy supply system is currently an isolated system and not linked to an electronic cord between Iceland and the energy system of the EU's internal market. In that light, a large part of the third energy package, i.e. those involved in the trade and infrastructure of electrical energy across borders, not of value or of any practical significance for Iceland, while there is no electronic cord. Is that legal? I don't see it. What does that mean? Iceland is an island, there is no string here. Is that legal? If that's the case, I repeat what I said before, the emperor has no clothes on. It's just a fact. It's not an advance. Hv. A senator also mentioned how many warnings there are. Then I'd like to mention that it's not only funny how many of the warnings we're going to have that we're going to have, which one of them is who they're always talking about, it's also funny if this comes up and we have to say, "We're on legal notice, it's not gonna work out. That's funny because such warnings as we've read here are fun in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He reviewed this warning, which I agree with completely that in times of trial, they are not going to hold anything because there is only one way. It's through the joint EEA committee. I just wanted to come on one thing, that's this joint statement from the EFTA states. It is also an example of something of no significance because, of course, the European Union should have been included in that declaration. It's just one of the contract parties in that statement. This work is very strange. This is a response of terror and stress, that this is a failure, that is finally arriving at the council, and then we have to have some statements that don't mean to hold anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u95	Mr. President. Thank you for this question from what? Senator. Then it's time for the joint declaration of Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein at EFTA on May 8. It says that the text that I've been reading and is repeated that the electronic energy systems would be established in the future, the EFTA, ESA, decided that there would be a problem with Iceland, not with the energy market partner's Cooperative Department, ACER. So, what do you read in Stefán and Friðrik's legal opinion? Despite the formality of ESAs, it is clear that ACER will have much to say on the basis of the Regulation's decision-making process, as far as it depends on the ACER, and lays it up for ESAs. What is the value of this statement by EFTA when you read it in the legal opinion of the government? What's the value? At best, it's funny. No value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u96	A respectable president. Now I figure there's two hours later. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came here in a pita and said he believed this case would be resolved in about 90 minutes, in an hour and a half. It's been two hours, and there's been a decrease of one on the rosary since that. This is explained primarily by the acceptance of the rosaries. In light and in light of the highest recommendation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In the 12th hour, a president is our position in the Central Party that we need to start telling people who were informed that a discussion would be delayed and that it would continue later because they need to come back here to share their views with them. So now I have to ask the highest. A president, two hours later after this case was thought to be over in 90 minutes: What's the plan? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u97	Mr. President. It's clear now that the highest. Some four hours ago, the president did not tell the council correctly when he claimed that this discussion was about to be interrupted. You must wonder what you chose. Could there be any message from Stockholm, direct or indirect? What's going on? A president of the United States has made a statement about four hours ago that proved wrong? In view of the highest degree, you may find this to be an overreaching illusion. President? It's at the top. The president contributes to the great deception that this whole matter is, by claiming to the council something that is not? I'm calling for the highest. The president explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u98	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with what the senators have said to the President's conference board. Also, I would like to add to the fact that I personally know of a member of the Parliament who took off a rosary earlier tonight when the president indicated that a discussion would be completed or up from midnight, and that member of the Parliament is not in the Central Party. He had no speech. It is a serious matter to suggest that after two, three hours, people will leave the House, perhaps tired, and think about speaking later. That's serious. People who have not been able to do so because of long - term rosary talk or to speak up. I think it's serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u99	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with what has been said here, and I have to state that I am most disappointed. President, that he should not keep his word. He said this would now begin to end soon, and then it was only about half an hour, I think. Therefore, I'm surprised that he continues this meeting. We are now attempting to improve the respect of the Generals. Those at home -- I'm sure there are some who are watching, see it here to the highest. The president doesn't live up to his word. That's very sad because I know the highest. To a good one, a president believes that he is very comfortable and kind in every relationship. [[The president calls.]] So, Mr. President, this reaction to your meeting board, I am quite surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u100	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with the Senate. Earlier this evening, it was said that a meeting would continue until midnight, perhaps a little longer, but with a long talk list, it was clear from the words of the president that a meeting would be delayed. I know that there was a why. Councilmen, including in a position of government and who are not middle - class members now in the hall and who are the only ones who are now discussing this matter, who planned to give a talk but took a record of integrity, confident that the matter would be continued later. They went home to prepare for some committee work that is scheduled in the morning. But is it the intention of the president to prevent members of the council from discussing the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u101	Mr. President. Now, I'm going to say that I'm happy to represent the President's conference board and once again say that I think that when they drive Presidents into a little bit of a mess, they're going to make a lot of noise. I ask people to breathe through their noses and talk gently. Given what I've been listening to tonight, because they keep asking each other the same questions, I would have thought the middle-class members had talked it over and didn't have to ask each other. It was said that a meeting should have ended in about 90 minutes, depending on what it was. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. I'd like to now say that he specified in what way he could do it. He also stated that it was up to us members of the Parliament themselves to determine how long the meeting was. I believe that's exactly what food is. The middle class here is having a conversation with themselves, of course, can decide whether or not they will continue to do so. [[The president calls.]] But I encourage the president to complete this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u102	A respectable president. This was now a special debate with the chairman of the Left Green, why. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. She did not seem to appreciate it as a top. The president held the length of a meeting but the members of the Central Party. All I want to say is that a meeting will be terminated, if this is the right thing to do. But I don't expect the President to share that understanding. Let me reiterate that I'd like to know if the President has a plan about when he's planning to complete a conference meeting and hopefully close to his word here at the 12th hour earlier tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u103	V.E.G. President. I'd like to talk to them about what. paritaprevir Olsen, a member of Congress, says that we can only continue and that we are discussing ourselves with members of the Central Party. However, there has been a request that experts be asked to examine and consult at the legal hearing. This has not been the case. I think it's clear to all members of the council that if the discussion is over and this council plan has been made unsolved. This is a huge case, and we make this requirement and we will stand here until the word becomes known to her. That's for sure. In other matters, I am trained to stay up at night and endure. [[The president calls.]] So I'm not worried about anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u104	President. I reiterate my request to explain his case to a respectable president. It was the highest. The president would deliberately deceive the council when he declared it about four hours ago, since a meeting would be interrupted and there would be no more talks, or he would be in charge. Mr President, isn't this meeting really true? Is it necessary for the administrative body, one of his representatives, to do this discussion as much as possible under cover of darkness? It was the highest. A president made it possible for the discussion to continue under cover of darkness rather than take place during a day when the common people have the opportunity to observe it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u105	Mr. President. Yes, I agree with the members of Congress who have come here to tell us when he will complete this meeting and postpone the case, as he said earlier tonight, that he would soon happen. At least that wouldn't be very far away. This is a big deal. There is great opposition to this issue among the people, as the surveys have shown, even to 80%. To start this conversation yesterday and to be done this night, at four o'clock in the morning, I don't feel comfortable with this matter because of its size and importance to the nation, as we have seen in a number of talks. Senators. I would also like to point out that there is a great opposition to this matter among the members of the administration and the political groups that support the government in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u106	There's more v. Senators who would like to speak to the President's conference board? If not, the president will allow himself to announce that a planned subject is trying to complete this discussion. She's been doing a great show tonight. But, of course, there are a few of them. Members of the panel who are left on the rosary and may all of them be members of the same council, and they have actually discussed this matter many times in a long time. There is good reason to believe that sooner or later the discussion should resolve. That, of course, lies beneath us. The members of Congress themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u107	President. I cannot help but start my talk by making very serious comments to the most peculiar statements. A president before he introduced me here on a talk chair. First of all, the Supreme Court confirmed. President that what he said earlier this evening has not been the norm, and second, it was not a matter of hearing at the top. A president, but he intended to do it. The members of the Central Party stopped discussing this matter. I guess I won't have to ask again the question I asked earlier about whether it's the highest. The president was actually in charge of these meetings or not. But I will certainly say one thing and another about this matter, the highest. President, and it may take a while. I'm going to start by discussing just another problem in the management section's presentation. This involves the claim that we have heard over and over again, both in the Hall of Congress and in the general discussion, that, in fact, this matter has no effect. It is obvious how strange it is to make such a statement in view of the urgency of the administrative part to set this issue down to the highest degree. It seems that the president is not even in control of the council and that he is being arranged for a discussion in the shelter of the night. But then we see a number of statements that confirm that yes, this has a significant effect. I would like to mention, for example, the declarations of the Directorate-Environment, The Hörður Year's Árnason, who claims to have made it both in the media and before my committee, that if the third energy package is not approved, it will weaken the company's contract against its clients, the international producers. How can those words be interpreted in a different way than that the director realizes that the result of this energy package's approval will be that the country will be linked to the European electronic energy market by means of a sea cable, thereby asking companies to sell their energy at higher prices? That's at least It is evident from the statement by the director of the European Commission that accepting this energy package will have an effect. So that claims that this is not really going to change anything are once again shown to be false. At the same time, however, the government, or the government, and its supporters, is providing a bill to change the nature of the Agency as part of that introduction. In view of the fact that the bill is presented that should change the nature of the Power Institute to adjust it to the nature of the third energy package, it is extremely strange to try at the same time to argue that there are no effects. Let us examine this specific example, changing the nature of the Power Institute. What's it going on? It is apparent that the Agency no longer corresponds in the same way to the democratic elected representatives, including those no longer known by the country's voters, the general public. Why is that? In accordance with the third energy package, which should be free from the democratic ideals of governments in each country, the European Union's policies on the role of energy institutions on the part of the states, according to the third energy package, allowing them to be free of the democratic ideal government in each country, so that these institutions can submit to invitation, accept drag, enforce the desire of the ACER, the European Union's energy agency. Of course, when the administrative and support groups allow themselves to claim that this has no real effect at the time they present a bill to produce a very real influence, it shows us yet another example of the failure of declarations related to this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. The transition between the Agency's organization and, in fact, its division into two parts, so to speak, the terms that exist between the Agency, the ones we know today and the parts that will be fully subject to independence from the government, is the approach we know from the local community or is this approach to us new and exotic? If you don't mind me asking you what. A senator: How does this view him? Does he believe that the change to be made through the induction of the third energy package is an improvement because it is an advantage when changing objects are looked for improvement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u109	A respectable president. I suppose there is an example of an intermediate ESA on behalf of the EEA Convention, including the European Union. But I do not know as well as the fact that ESAs are meant to play a role solely, merely by enforcing will, by means of an institution that the Icelanders are not involved, as in this case, because it has been discussed in this case, to form in the Foreign Affairs Committee, that it is, in fact, unprecedented. This relationship of ACER and ESA is specifically discussed for example. The many-scale opinion of Stefán's Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst's Count, referred to as one of the main questions regarding how to influence the constitution, whether this is taking the step off the edge of a postmort, taking one more step than the step that puts us off the edge in this regard. So even if there's an interaction between various strains and ESAs, this will be an isolated example, that the Agency is simply in charge, and the ESA is solely intended to deliver letters, like the dog. A senator put it earlier tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer was Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson. Counts 'em out. Senator that these developments could have an impact, possibly negative, on the ESA's position in terms of the regular work it already handles with the Member States, i.e. to be put in the position of being -- I hope I don't offend many - some mailman, the post office for ACER's messages? Counts 'em out. A senator that this trend could undermine ESA's position and have had for a long time, and thus may actually be the shock of an institution starting to collapse? It would be interesting to hear the senator's view of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u111	A respectable president. Yeah, I guess we're right next door. Senator. I have to admit that there is a serious risk that this could have such an effect, especially when it is added to the fact that the ESA has, unfortunately, been too often in the role of defending the European Union's interests in Iceland, and it is sufficient to mention the Agency's conduct on Icesave and the latest example of importing raw meat and unbound food. When this is added, it must be a concern about how this facility is viewed in Iceland. But that's not all the story told because what I'm afraid of is that this will affect not only the ESA but the EEA deal itself. If the government thus maintains that they allow their interpretation of the EEA Treaty to provide a home for foreign authority, a real, intermediate authority, the ESA uses it in this way, there is a very real danger that this could lead to a negative attitude toward the EEA Convention. So, when they claim to agree, the third energy package is needed to protect the EEA deal, they're turning things upside down. To agree with the third energy package is to weaken the EEA contract and Iceland's position within it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I'd like to continue with this matter, the interaction of ESAs and ACER, and associate it only with this 25-year-old case, which must not be involved at all because it has never happened before. The Regulation specifically states that the ESA and the ACER work in very close cooperation, making the shoes the basis for this two - supporting system. " Despite the formal cause in ESAs, " states the Council of Stefán and Friðrik, "it is clear that ACER will have a lot to say about the issues that ESA makes on the basis of the Regulation, ending the ACER decision-making process and laying them up for ESAs. So you can ask yourself, " Is my decision really at ACER? ' Furthermore, when it comes to these matters of opinion, these institutions work very closely together. But later in this opinion, it is said that if there is a disagreement, the president's permission is: The EICs will seek to resolve the problem, but it is possible to refer the case to the joint EEA committee for discussion. Isn't that in accordance with the EEA contract? It's okay to do it, but not right now? Isn't this something weird? I understand the process as it is put here, but I don't understand what people are afraid of taking this matter as discussed here and referring it to the joint EEA committee, where we have a complete access to matters. I just can't get it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he feels the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u113	A respectable president. The fear is completely incomprehensible, especially in view of showing this fear and not afraid to use the rights we have to undermine the EEA Treaty, making the precedent that it will become more and more difficult to use the right, setting an example of fear of someone's response, I don't know who, Norwegian officials who want to join the European Union, the European Union itself, or whatever might do. But to show the fear, those who fear will fall to the point, and it will be a bigger and more difficult step for us to take advantage of the rights that this contract guarantees us. But because it has to do with this institution, ACER, it is also interesting to learn how things are handled in a town when disagreements arise. The Agency has a decision-making committee, let's call it what may address issues, i.e. You can appeal to this decision or appeal committee of ACER. But who are they named? Yes, it is. It's ACER himself. In other words, the Agency has the power to determine its own decisions, which is now a history of what this institution is and what its role is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u114	V.E.G. President. It's very interesting that certain people here at the Council should choose to follow the procedure described here. So I continue with this opinion, they talk about this not changing it, despite the so-called two-found system, that the decision is based on the ACER and the effect of ACER on the content of these decisions is therefore significant. If you understand this correctly, you may find that it is possible to have opinions, but the facts are actually made by ACER, who tells ESA how to deal with it. And if there's any differences, he's referred back to the ACER. Is it true that the same person has the main objective of negotiating considered and then again to decide if there is no mutual understanding or agreement with what comes from the committee? Or am I mistaken? I have to say, I can't figure out why this route is chosen. This all seems to be the result of the European Union, sooner or later, having the main issues despite the EU decision to stand outside the European Union but having close contact with that relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u115	A respectable president. I heard before, as long as it was. A senator answered that the members of the Independence Party here in the house were not comfortable with the question. I strongly encourage them to give a talk and to explain how disagreed they were in a approach. Senator. But it is quite clear if you simply study this institution, ACER and how it works, what the rules are of appeals there. Hv. The members of the Independence Party may be confusing with the reference to the Joint EEA Committee as their initial response, i.e., to potential Icelanders, to what is transmitted via ESA from ACER. Then one must ask himself, " Would such a person dare? ' It seems that there is a tremendous dread of the European Commission, in spite of the rights we have to bring to it. The most clear example of this is the case today, a case that is very controversial, and the greatest fundamental interest in the nation. Even the government is afraid to send the case back to the European Commission in that policy of reconciliation, as it is said, which is specifically expected in the EEA Convention. So that there's a bit of a clientele, a respectable president, when men call out something about the fact that cases can always be referred back to the common EEA committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u116	V.E.G. President. Now it's time to strike four, and we'll talk to the Senate resolutions of a three-pack power importer. It's just like that, and it's a little bit of trouble, and it needs to be done at night. It is so urgent that the president of the Generals indicated that this would be spoken until midnight, perhaps for a while, and in view of the fact that many members of the Parliament were on the rosary, the discussion would not be completed. So the senators were taken off the rosary, confident that they would be able to give their talks and answer later during the discussion, after it was delayed. There's probably more to this than that. I don't see that there's anything to burn in energy, even though this particular form will not be introduced as quickly as possible. I'd like to mention transportation. The government's strategy has not yet been exposed, even though it has been declared impossible to wait. These include accidents in people of about 50 billion a year, with the exception of pain and loss, but they can wait, there is no rush. Long-term health plan, we can put it off. Who's on it, health care's on top of it? Government budget, we postpone it. She's not in a hurry, is she? I also want to continue talking because it is the subject of the meeting, the warnings that have been discussed before. It has been described that if the route has not been established, there will be no terms that will apply if we choose to refer the case in a formal manner, as is the agreement that we are in agreement with. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, declared that it was a major political uncertainty and not certain how this would go. I'd appreciate it, because I know she's in a house, that she's stepped in a torturete and informed us whether she's received any message of that content or whether it was implied at either the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs, or the government of the country or the individual members, the committees, that taking this legal course would have consequences - and then the consequences. I think it would be very interesting to know the consequences. The wealth in question is with us, the nation of Iceland, and the profit goes to the nation. It was anticipated at the beginning that he would not begin to return until a considerable amount of time had passed. It has been reasoned that part of the country's reactivation could be permissible on the grounds that land activation has the dominant position on the market and those who get new into the market could feel that they had such a difficult catch in the shadow of such a large company. In such a situation, it can be assumed that the business conditions of the transition would require more investment during a shorter period of time, which would strain energy prices. I don't think there's a bad lead of reason. One might ask himself, " Who could be the main source of activation, or buy enough land space, and water rights, or land space, under a wind - power garden in order to do such business? ' I think it's pretty clear that there won't be this average loss in Iceland. There'll be some bigger people. They will insist that money returns at a shorter time than that of the nation when we were able to establish landactivation in the 1960's. I would also like to introduce one thing that has brought my attention to the subject. In the government, the Independence Party in Iceland and the Foreign Minister of the Independence Party, who at least once had the motto: Do justice, do not tolerate injustice. But who are the most determined people that will accomplish this? In particular, there are left groups, such as the Archipelago and the United States, who have promised government support in bringing the case through. I'm so old, though I'm reminded that these are the same categories; in fact, restoration wasn't there at the time; these are the same individuals in many cases as the strongest fighting for Icezave, i.e. to bow down to the European power, not to stand on your feet, and not to fight for the interests of the Icelanders. Although we are in cooperation with nations and do business with alliances or through two contracts, we are party to them, and we want to be part of it, but we must first take care of Iceland's interests. Those who lead that work are, that I mean, to fall on that test because one sign of a good leader is to reconcile a view. What's quite remarkable about it is that when people accept viewpoints, they make informed decisions. The fact is, unless men and women don't mean what they say, the council agrees that the three energy packages available will not be introduced into Icelandic legislation without change. This is essential to the Senate arrangement. There's a lot of whisks out here. Councilmen came to say that they were skeptics, but because of their changes, they are ready to follow through on the case. The changes are that it should be set as a legal notice during the induction process. Then we'll come back to the legal warnings, which, unfortunately, are so thin and really not clear who they are. While several locations have been pointed out, I think you need to take the word of the Foreign Affairs Director because they are on page 3 of the committee's opinion. I have to say, when I read this over that there's something very strange about being taken up and inserted into the productions. I can't see that it can be considered legal. I call to hear our wish being heard and give talks, Mr. President, to get a legal opinion whether they are warned for the first and then, in another place, whether they will be held. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u117	A respectable president. I had been molded to ask myself a question based on the question. A senator began to talk about, and I was very anxious to get an answer to her from him. But then he came onto a huge matter that is really unsatisfied, and I had actually thought about discussing it in a talk later on. It is the overall picture that can be seen in the long term when investments in Icelandic countries, in water rights and activations, continue. I'm gonna wait a minute to ask about it. But I would have liked to have a chance to ask. A senator will agree with that, too. Maybe there'll be a chance later. I need a what? A senator trying to explain to me a little bit more what he came into the beginning, and then at the end of his talk, which is the strange situation in which we are, that governments are ready to postpone huge issues like that. A senator mentioned. There is no question about a road program that was supposed to be here long ago. A discussion of a health plan to the age of ten will be cut off, and then this case will be discussed in the middle of the night to the point that the President may not even appear to be able to fulfill his promises about the council meeting. What can cause? Is it possible that this is because humans are simply so afraid of the system? That the politicians in charge of this facility are afraid to control and, as a result, simply to obey the instructions of the system in Brussels or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u118	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. We're starting to have this sort of thing here because people just stand there and are not sure what's going on. I think it may well be that men and women are afraid to make a decision because this is much more convenient in the short term. At some point, it was joking that the perfect official wouldn't do anything because someone who doesn't do anything stupid. Here, a living example may be that men and women simply do not dare to get up or do what they were hired to do, to follow the interests of the Icelanders, and to stand on their feet; they are not afraid because it is uncomfortable. This requires that people really have to exercise themselves. That is certainly what identifys a good leader. A good leader must stand at the front and show that he is ready to ride on the ground, fan the fire, and ride with sulfur, for he thus convinces his followers that it is safe to follow. He who stands behind and overcomes the people and eats the mud is not a leader, not in my mind, at least. I think it might just be that the situation is that people just don't dare and think, "Well, the look doesn't happen at all. I may be somewhere else and in a more comfortable place when there are real consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u119	A respectable president. This is exactly what I'm afraid of. But the question is, What does it tell us about the rest if at this point, when our right is completely clear and very much that recommends that we use that right, not just because of the nature of the case, which is obvious in my opinion, but also simply to label that we have this right and are ready to use it, when men do not trust in it in these circumstances? What, then, will be the same when the next piece of the sovereignty will be removed, when the next stage in this large energy package is to be reached? Will these same parties dare say, "This place and no more?" Parts who don't even have the guts to send a case back to the EEA joint committee, who still have a clear right to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u120	V.E.G. President. It's a good point. Because I was very thinking here at first. ... aboutthiscase. Then the discussion was at the highest point. A minister of state had recommended the council resolution and was asked by a member of the council, whose face I can't remember, what he would do if it came to the belt of a multitude of fames and no shoulder ties. V.E.G. Secretary of State is the only man who has told it here, although many others, including signed, have been advised to want to walk out of the EEA community, which I've heard about being extremely careful to resign from the EEA agreement. [[The president calls.]] Just resign. But I'd love to see if they'd survive in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Þóðdirsson for his speech. This is the second speech of the senator, that I belong to the case, and was very interesting in it. One thing I want to talk to you about is what I want to talk to you about. The senator is the viewpoint he gave regarding the warnings. I described earlier today as being very pianic when people realized that they didn't know what those guards looked like. Now the number has come up to four cited by the supporters of the case. That's fine, maybe they'll get up to five and six as the discussion goes forward. What it looks like to the senator if you ask: Now these experts, Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Hirst, who have been much quoted and have presented the most recent articles, have answered the committee meeting that they have not seen warning. It is now clear that at that time all four the alleged warnings were available, so they are sure that they saw a specific fraction of the text. Let's read it. A senator's point is that these of our biggest experts in these matters don't think they have any priors? Is that a signal that these alleged warnings are as solid as they claim us to be? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u122	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bergþór Three Ólason is very much concerned with the question. Yeah, I think it's very early to realize that what they're saying is clearly being taken into account, because they knew exactly what was fundamental when they gave that opinion. At any rate, it was not their understanding that these were the legal warnings. Rather, they were giving direction that if people wanted to do this, they would have to make a legal advance, which would not be there. That's exactly why we've been calling because we're going to be corrected and we'll eat it in our mouths if there's a doctor in law here and tell us that it's absolutely right. paritaprevir The sanctimonious Arna that these are the legal defenders, they will be placed in the induction plant, unchanged, and spoken of as follows, and will be held. For it is the chief thing that they shall keep: for these are the girdles, and the bracelets, which are spoken of so many times. At any rate, I'm going to state that it is extremely dangerous for anyone to read this paragraph on page 3 of the committee's opinion and that it is valid legal in the contract when it comes to the same suggestion that the Regulation will be introduced in a conventional way. [[The president calls.]] After that, there will be no warnings. - There's not gonna be anything in the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. For example, in principle, I agree with this understanding of the senator and have wondered for all day how firm the supporters of the case are, especially those of the government groups, regarding the seeming intention of putting their heads on and driving on the explanation that this is adequate and thinks, people can trust this all the way, because you know that these are members of the council who have had serious doubts about the matter in the past. How do you hit it? A senator who, apparently, did not have any of these former skeptics today? [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's credible somehow. How do you hit it? paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u124	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason again. I think the short answer to that is: I don't think it's credible. You see, these are members of a council I know by being very active fighters. They have not left their mark when issues that the Independence Party has wanted to fight for are subject to. They have not left their mark in due time. That is exactly why they have been very quiet in this discussion. Almost as if they were told to stay away or that they simply don't have the mind to be seen in this discussion and to support their party in going this way, which is viewed to my credit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Comparing the environment of energy markets in Iceland with Europe's environment is a bit perfunctory. It is important to consider these different situations in this discussion. We know that energy prices in the European Union are high, but they are relatively low in Iceland, much lower than in Europe. There's a shortage of electricity in the European Union, but Iceland has enough electricity. In Europe, there is an unstable prices in an electric market. In this country, we have a constant supply of electricity. It is known, e.g. In Europe, for example, the price of electricity is much higher in winter. Above all, it is the natural market itself; it turns toward 28 countries with 500 million inhabitants. But in this country, the market is very small, as we know, about 340,000 people. These conditions are quite different. Don't say it, and it's a whisker. A senator doesn't agree with me, that our interests don't go together? I think everybody sees it. In this country, 90% of the activation is owned by the government, i.e. The people's share. It'd be nice to get a guess. The senator of this, the great difference between, and how he feels about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Birgir Þórarinsson's request for the inquiry. I agree that in this case it is the European Union's basic concept of the country where the situation is different and quite different from that of the European Union. That's why we've been over it here in speeches that Iceland is an island north of the sea. There are other things that are not relevant here, and applying for extras outlets to form railroads, canals, etc. And if you weren't planning on setting this warning, which is now clear, it would be easy to apply for the expanded access also to the EEA joint committee? But this is exactly a big deal. In Europe, energy plants are largely nuclear and fossil fuels, with less hydropower workers, or man's use of dump gas or wind power. There's something else. These are enterprises that largely share private ownership and compete in the market within this area. But it's not like that in Iceland, and you ask yourself, " Is the purpose of linking us to this internal market in the European Union? ' I think it's pretty clear that it is, and I think it would be only honest for people to step out here and say plainly that they want to enter the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, this is very interesting. The three energy package, such as we're talking about, and its induction, includes the export of legislators, executives and legislators when a sea cable is laid and realized. And it becomes reality. We just need to face it. In order to agree with the third energy package, the government's scope on the case is to ban a cable to Europe. Then you ask yourself, " Why should the European Union's administration of electronic power markets in our small country be under ban? ' That is something the government must, of course, answer. But the point is this roundness. Are we so afraid of getting charged or what? What's the deal? I think it's just, as I've said before, that it has to be tested for the joint committee, and that's the right setting, not just to accept it without a complaint. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u128	V.E.G. President. Here's the thing. It's incomprehensible that humans don't want to do this for the joint EEA committee. So here it has been declared to be a legal way and a relatively light. The EEA has declared that it is ready to give the required ones, and the EU as well as the Icelanders have declared this. So I don't know what to do, then, should stop it or how scared people are. I think that's exactly what it is: people are not afraid of this. People actually want to bring in the third energy package and can look back and say, "Oh, come on, we just did it wrong, and that's why it's the way it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u129	A respectable president. It has amazed many to see the urgency of this matter. Why is it so important to run a case through as high as possible? In fact, a minister himself had indicated that there was no need to be served at the Fall Summit? What Is the Cause? There is no evidence to suggest that there is a special timex in the matter, nothing. There is one thing that I noted in this case that has not received much attention so far, but here I hold to the joint EFTA declaration in the EEA on Iceland's special status, from 10 May 2019, published on the State Department's website. It has a news report on the top. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðla Þór Þórðarson, has introduced to the United States' Common Declaration of Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein, which is by chance in all fundamentally as well as the joint statement of the Supreme Court. Minister and then Commission of Energy for the European Commission. What may have given little attention so far is a conclusion of the news release. I reiterate that this is a report of a joint statement by the EFTA states in the EEA regarding Iceland's special status and refer to a meeting that discussed these issues. And the conclusion of the story says, with permission of the president: The European Union also read a statement at a meeting of the Joint EEA Committee on the importance of the third energy package being agreed on in the entire EEA area, this would be the basis for the smooth, energy exchange between the EU and the EFTA countries already linked to a common energy market. Someone would call this no very mysterious threat in the European Union greeting. Someone would ask: "There's no connection, and it doesn't matter. This has suddenly become the premise of an unscrupulous energy exchange between EU countries and the EFTA countries already linked to a common energy market. Is this maybe what it's all about? The ability to do what is right. Councilmen are allowed to see this declaration read by European representatives? Of course, she hasn't shown up in the evidence. I'm just going to allow myself here, because I'm at the sideside manager of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to mention that it would be interesting to hear if she could point me to where in the evidence that representative of the European Union is, which was read up. This conclusion of the report on this meeting suggests that the European Union representatives were present and numbered by the EFTA authorities. With President's permission, again: The European Union also read a statement at a meeting of the Joint EEA Committee on the importance of the third energy package being agreed on in the entire EEA area, this would be the basis for the smooth, energy exchange between the EU and the EFTA countries already linked to a common energy market. This is a paragraph indicating that there is something more underlying. I wish that we members of the Parliament will be informed of what it was that European representatives read up there, apparently above the EFTA national headside. If there was nothing in it but what the presentation reveals, it's only when it's revealed. However, it is all evidence that this is the European Union's representatives, according to the European Union's opinion, did not recognize a complete or unsurpassed threat to the EFTA states. Whether it's what calls for this shoddy business, and fast, I don't know. There's no one here to answer. [[The president calls.]] But I wanted to mention this because I haven't noticed it before, and I think I listened to all the talks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This statement, I don't think it's part of the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There's one thing I'd be interested in getting a reputation for. Senator. What brings us especially attention to this whole affair is the emphasis on bringing in this energy package and the practices that have been established at the council and that we have talked about, having talked until the morning. The clock is now 20 minutes out for five in the morning, and committees begin at 8:30. This is a case involving the entire nation, future generations, up until the morning. It's a very strange procedure, Mr. President, to say the least. Another interesting point is the position of a greater part of government supporters. We see that about 80% of the population is opposed to increasing power over energy in Iceland is being moved to Europe. The opposition is the largest of independence, or 92%. Over 88% of the candidates are opposed and 86% are left green. However, the matter must be carried out. To be honest, Mr. President, the presidents of these political parties may not be fully aware of what they are doing and what the political parties may have to do with bringing up a case that meets a great deal of opposition. [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to hear from what you hear. A senator as to what he may think is the underlying issue in the face of all these opposition to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. It's nice to tell you that I was wondering, because I'm representing the Independence Party who's been sitting in the side room for the longest night, how we could get them into the discussion. Of course, one option would be to review the class's material position over the years and how a vision of the backlands of the party, as it is sometimes called, is shown by surveys. There must be a very strange relationship between supporters and council members these days. But this is not just the Independence Party. This is true of the advance party, which seems to go directly against the conclusions of what they call grass roots. Then there's a left capitol. They've been tough against the first and second supply of energy, but now they've been waiting. Maybe we'll talk about it later with some representative of the left green. Hv. paritaprevir Senator Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir seems to have at least I'm in a house. She's always coming to the conference board. Perhaps it will be a shock to receive them in general with us. I'll have to come to that later in my answer, but the way this case is being pushed forward is the only way to encourage suspicion that there's something in there that you don't trust to reason, to go through in the open and transparent way. [[The president calls.]] That feeling continues to progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with what he said about tremendous opposition within these categories, at the root of the groups, and the political system of running this issue against those oppositions and without listening to the grass roots. I don't think the groups really understand what they're doing to the nation and themselves as political powers. I'll give the forward party an example. I've noticed that he's been holding back very much during the discussion. I also mention, as an example, that the former senator, Frosti Sigurjónsson, is and has been an active fighter against the induction of this energy package and has now organized a signing in which members of Congress are challenged to reject it. I think he and other people who said that the telethon had just given them the President's signatures this week. This shows that there is considerable opposition within these categories to the case. Nevertheless, it is driven forward, and I wholeheartedly agree with it. A senator that there is something that has not been said, which raises questions as to whether there are some interests that the government groups know about and prefer not to promote. [[The president calls.]] These are all speculations that are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u133	A respectable president. Just this paragraph of a report from May 10 of the State Department's Web site, a joint statement by EFTA, EEA, on Iceland's special status, is the conclusion that you cannot help but suspect that there is something in this matter that we agents in the government stand not told. Maybe it's just that people don't have it in them to tell you that they're a little bit small, afraid of a representative of the European Union who read something up. Of course, it can be scary when some Eurokrats come from Brussels and read to you. People take these things differently. But you don't know if that paragraph is inserted here to have told the story and to be able to refer to it later. There is no discussion of the matter, in the paper or in the synonym that I have observed in this case that the induction of the third energy package of Iceland is the key to the smoothing of energy exchange between the EU and the EFTA countries already linked to a common energy market. So they say, "The import of Iceland is essential for e.g. Norway can interact with other EU countries in a low energy trade. It's fine if this shows up, the threat is imminent. They will evaluate the situation from that point on. But while we senators have to look for this kind of information with a magnifying glass, this is not done to increase confidentiality. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u134	A respectable president. As is often noted in this discussion, there are so many things that you are not really able to make an answer to all of them. But, hey. The senator raised the issue I have noticed, in fact, that this joint statement is at the highest level. The minister of state and this Miguels--what his name is, this commissar--is almost like what came later from the joint EEA Committee, very close to the wording, which shows us that this is an expression that has been calculated. Like what? A senator has pointed out that it is primarily thought that one might be able to get away from it later. But what's wrong. A senator pointed out - and I have to confess to myself, a respectable president, that I had not given it enough attention - is the final words of what came from the joint EEA committee, which, in fact, cannot be interpreted as different from what men should do so that the common market works. Then what's the point? Yes, it is important, and there is no reference to what has been claimed to have no effect. The question, then, is: Who is so important? Has a what? A senator may answer that question or may he be able to determine his or her primary benefit is that it goes through here? Of course, according to the wishes of a respectable president, in the middle of the night, when most people do not see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u135	A respectable president. When asked: " This is an interesting subject of interest. ' In this context, I'll think of countless articles, and blog mails here and there on the Internet, where it has been claimed that our members of the Central Party are all going to be involved in delivering a message from the Norwegian government into an Icelandic political debate. I don't realize that in itself. If my interests are the Norwegian interests, which I imagine are the best and the largest, well, well, we've come to an reversible position in the Middle East, compared with what has been so decided on. Perhaps these are the interests of some of the nations that receive energy from Norway, which I give myself to be the largest exporting energy from the EFTA countries that are linked to the common energy market, so that the bonds are drawn there. But it puts in all the other contexts this fault, or whatever it can be called, these constant declarations, that we are going the business of the Norwegian people - whatever that means, I have not been in touch with any Norse in this matter all, although they are, of course, the finest people and good friends of ours. I can't offer a better answer than informed gigs would be that the interests of energy importers in Norway are the greatest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u136	A respectable president. I want to find out right away that I'll come across a question later. A senator on Icelandic politics and the strange state of state that has developed in their case. But Norway. I have a theory. Now I want to teach them. A senator in the light of his words in a talk earlier. My theory is that at least... Part of this has to do with more things, expected very much more things, Norwegian officials of the management system are Europeans. This issue, the third energy package, proved to be a very controversial issue in Norway, where, like this, some warned against its influence, and it was difficult to pass through the council. It was actually crowded through the council. Yet, not by the methods we have met here - night meetings, to cover the discussion - but by promises that there will be eight common warnings. But then you've got two masks coming on. If the Icelanders return the case to the European Commission, it will be granted to the Norse and the opportunity to bring their share together. It may not be that some Europeans in Norway are overwhelmed by the fact that the matter goes back to the European Commission, where not only Iceland, but also our friends of the Norwegians, have the opportunity to have real resources that are relevant to these countries and to defend interests, not just Iceland, but Norway and hopefully Lichtensteins as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u137	A respectable president. I have to admit, the theory that had it. paritaprevir This is where the expressed Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson sounds pretty credible. I must admit that when I tried to answer a question from a previous answer, I was just looking for financial interests in business. Of course, it is obvious that there are others underneath, the interests, and, of course, they are political and they are turning to control and control these factors in Norway, all the same as here. I would think that all honest Norwegians should welcome this way again in view of how the talk has been about the eight warnings of the Worker Party, if I remember correctly, had a prerogative or insisted on being put in, and then men have lost faith in the fact that there will be no restraint. It beats me to celebrate our Uncle Norses. As is well known, the government system there is highly harnessed toward the direction, the opinion that Norway is to be joined in the European Union. According to surveys, officials differ greatly in how they respond compared to the nation as a whole. That group would probably cry this, but I would think that more of our other cousins in Norway would be very happy without a underlying objective in my position on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u138	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the senator for the talk that was very interesting and came to a new point that has not been discussed here. In part, it discussed the meeting of a foreign minister and some communicator down in Europe, and you ask yourself, " Do I have more understanding or lack of knowledge in Icelandic boys than I expected? ' The fact that a foreign minister is not in the area attracts my attention. He was here in his earlier discussion briefly, read quickly, and then hurried away from it. He has not been seen here in a subsequent discussion of his own synonym, and he has clearly described that this is a complete zero, it doesn't matter, has no effect, had nothing to do with it. On the part of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik, the son of Hirst, are totally rejected from his viewpoint. You see, this is important. That's what I want to ask myself. A senator as to whether it might be, as we have been shocked not to be read or to have missed items, whether this document is read all through the definitions of ◯constrol, and the documents that follow the definition. It seems we're taking the edge off and saying, "Hey, there's two ways, we're taking them worse. Without signs. Now that I am running out of time, I may see in my second speech what I'm pointing to right there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u139	A respectable president. After the two days that this case has been in the past, I have no idea that the members of the Central Party are the ones who have studied the matter, so I am completely honest with it. Of course, this makes you feel that especially in the councils where the matter was most difficult to swallow, people searched, whether they do it by a U.S. president, or by other means, that the most convenient way out of the case, the most convenient way of speaking, by permission of a president, as it is ever called. With the members of the Central Party, all we can do is work this out so that we can get the answers to the questions that have been raised in our discussion today. It surprised me a bit, I must admit, when it happened. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson relates - the senator was an assistant for me when the first discussion took place, then I was in foreign lands on the council so I missed it - and I have to admit that I just gave myself the highest level. A minister of state would have been here to answer all the questions that were raised. If he didn't, it's even more surprising that he doesn't see anything in the discussions here. An end to a spontaneous question that came out of four today. We haven't yet received an answer to her except by this wonder here, when men were looking for the answers, and they found four when they were going to find one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u140	V.E.G. President. The reason I asked about this is that, in the opinion of qualified men, it says, by permission of the president: No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if it is not to be tested in the face of an tolerated law code. So it has to be logical and indeed inevitable that a policy-making approach to policy-making agents that are already linked to the third energy package - before and before - once, it's a password -- the General Assembly agrees with the third energy package. But there's just what's being tried, and I apologize for, to hang here through the middle of the night. By the end of this discussion, it will be approved by the middle class that this presentation will be implemented. There is then a law that violates the Icelandic constitution. It's amazing. A minister may not be here in the area or other government ministers, prime ministers to form, yet still responsible for this work. I cannot quite agree that these matters can be won at the High General Assembly, and it is also possible to talk about increasing the ways and respect of the General Assembly. We are going to lead and influence the work of the nations in this world. It has been held under inspired counsel. Who would want us to lead us in charge of anything in any place when we make such a move?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u141	A respectable president. To answer the last question first, it will be only those who wish to be led into a ditch that would wish such leadership. I'll be back to answer the question later. This discussion about the presence of the Minister of the past discussion and the complete lack of a future discussion is all I'd thought that the Minister could just come here and explain to us what the four officers had planned to use. Of course, you could call it the highest. Minister of Industrial Affairs, Þórdís Kolbrún brown The Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir of the area She's responsible for one of the four suspected warnings found. I hereby direct for president to the highest degree. The minister of foreign affairs will be called to the area so that we can have a word with him, despite the second discussion, not the first. It is absolutely unannounced that after 13 hours - that is 13 hours since that question came up - is the only answer we receive to the fact that the middle-class members have the authority to complete this meeting by refusing to express themselves. At the same time, members of Parliament went home with confidence that a meeting would not continue until the night, and they would find their point of view when the discussion would be opened. I don't have much of the time left, so just wait. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, I hope he forgives me for not answering the questions, but his discussion actually made me feel that I had to express myself in the tone I did and ask the president to call for a minister in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u142	A respectable president. First, I'm going to make an effort to ask the highest question. After understanding what he said in the 12th hour, the president may be able to find out if he had changed his mind after a brief meeting with a few more speakers. Of course, members of Congress began to go home and work hard to get themselves ready for committee work and so on the streets, knowing that they did not succeed. I want to be curious now, when it's 6:00 p.m., to know which is the highest. President changed his mind. At the same time, I'd like to request the highest position. A president to my request that I made just now to the highest level. The minister of state would come here and have a word with us, for it is now drawing short. Whether he gets up sooner or later does not mean black.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u143	Mr. President. I wish I could first guess the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was here yesterday and the previous part of this meeting that remains, and I believe he has not received any inquiry or that no one has spoken to him directly. I think that explains his absence from this meeting right now. I have to say, based on the way the program is going on, there are only a few short talks left, there should be a game by itself to complete this meeting. I would like to encourage a president to see if this discussion cannot be concluded right now by a single ten - minute talk and three five - minute talks or something like that, as the proverb indicates. All those on the rosary have spoken before, so some often cannot be said that they did not have the opportunity to promote their views. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u144	V.E.G. President. I kind of have to take it for granted. paritaprevir One Birgir's Ármannsson said that all the senators had been allowed to express themselves and share their views, and it would be a time to shorten this meeting. The fact is, though, that. In the past evening, the president of Allallis indicated that there would be no continuation in the night, and there are non - members of a house who took off a rosary, confident that they could express themselves on the subject. I can't help but see that this plan has come behind those people, who can hardly be sure that the President has intended - or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u145	A respectable president. I suppose the highest. A president has now come to realize that. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year was cutting back strings. Knowing that a senator is a man of discernment, we realize that this discussion is really just beginning. I myself have described several times how many items I will discuss in subsequent talks, without a complete list of them. I've only given a few samples of the points I'm going to discuss. I'll remind you of the highest. Again, the importance of time management and how these speeches are most useful. We can best avoid having to go back and forth - in fact, it's starting to publish but at a time when people have the opportunity to observe - to reiterate what humans may have missed in the highest circumstances. President's offer is open. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u146	Mr. President. I was wondering what's going on with this night meeting. This is an important matter. We have already identified this with a legal warning that may not be found. We have received four suggestions on where he is found, and we do not fully understand who is the right person, the one who the government considers to be this legal warning. We have also noted that the solution consists of seven and a half lines in the opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson, son of Hirst. It consists of a seven-and-a-half line that the government has decided to follow. And this has not been studied. There's no point of opinion that way, through these seven and a half lines. That's all, like, seven and a half lines. That way is gone, and there is no test of its potential. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u147	V.E.G. President. In the light of words, the highest. I will avoid talking to a president about material matters. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, however, must mention that the solution he mentioned is the result of a legal opinion, as many have been observed. I have to say for a word. paritaprevir Sigmundur's servants, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, say that they apparently did not stand in the way of trouble. The members of the Central Party renovate here. They have been busy talking back to express agreement with the speaker and have joined one another in a series of talks and answers - and are happy to observe the spirit that exists there. But I don't know if it does much for the discussion to listen to more of it. Of course, their freedom of speech will not be restricted in that way. But I wondered, " Does this really serve any purpose for the discussion? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u148	Mr. President. We'll come back here again and talk to President's conference board. It's fresh in mind that the president said just before midnight that it was almost over - and it's now now quarter past five. But what I specifically wanted to point out, Mr. President, is that a lot of senators came around and around midnight and asked for a press conference to be delayed. A lot of people. It was, I think, two more than three members of the board who wanted a meeting to continue. And then I ask, what business does the President in this meeting board decide to hold a meeting? Is it related to the government's affairs in these matters? Well, isn't the President of Congress all members of Congress? And is it not true that there were many more members who wanted a meeting to be delayed? [[The president calls.]] Why not? Is it the council leader of the Independence Party that measures here and tells a president what to do? Is that right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u149	A respectable president. I'm sure President would have thought what I had when he heard what he was thinking. paritaprevir Just before, the Birgir Ármannsson of an Aarhus claims that there had been a lot of repetition, that there was constant agreement between one another. V.E.G. The President could now have pointed out why. That's what a senator is, I suppose, has observed the discussion, as well. paritaprevir It seems that the year's Ármannsson farm did not, apparently, have repeatedly come up and pondered very much, in some cases told A, but not B. The matter of what the senators have been going to do and trying to get to the bottom of it has been explained, since there is no answer from the government section that keeps this issue going on. A respectable president. I reiterate a request presented earlier on the importance of the Supreme Court. President calling to the highest power. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u150	Mr. President. Yeah, I can't agree that I'm repeating myself. I've given one speech in this matter. If I have repeated myself in that speech, it will just have to be. I even have, but I'm in one speech. I won't be invited to hear that I'm repeating myself. It's just that it's not right. I can also say that during the discussion, just now for the last few hours and last night, there have been four proposals from the management board on which legal warnings are to be found. That there are four suggestions from most likely four different members of the council, now showing what? Good, careful work that has been discussed in almost every speech? It's been such a good, long job? So when we ask about the legal advance, we get four editions from four members of the council. [[The president calls.]] Is it not wise to talk about this a little bit more if it comes out of nowhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u151	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate the request to the highest level. The president has so little to inform the World Congress of his plans to continue meetings for a long time. It's time. At the scheduled schedule, the six - minute job will begin at 8:30, and only if they have someone to look out for them at the council. I think it's the least you can ask of me that there will be a misreading of how long this meeting should continue before it is postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u152	A respectable president. Of course, I would like to reiterate my wish that the president might share in the arrival of the foreign minister and have a place of word for us. Then I'd like to call for President's position to see if there's a repetition in the Senate speeches. I know for my part I'm sure that I didn't have any repetitions to discuss with me, which is the material list I'd like to come into so big that there was no need for a few repetitions. The third point again is the question I asked at the outset: Has the highest. President change his mind? For one thing is clear, his word at half an hour on an explanation at the end of a discussion of a meeting management will be repeated tomorrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u153	The president wants to inform us that the highest contact has been made. Secretary of state. It is going abroad in those spoken words, as we are informed, and it has no place to go. It is beginning to dawn, and the president intends to allow public speakers to move forward, but we realize that the committee will begin at 8:30. Of course, it would be tempting to believe that the discussion could be concluded before that time, and if handled properly, it should be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u154	Mr. President. It's interesting to consider this matter. Now I make it clear, and perhaps it's time to inform the House members of the Independence Party that what I'm going to say I haven't said before in the discussion, so he should pay attention. It's informative to compare this matter with the Bgret case. We're accepting market rules and refusing to connect to markets, which is nothing more than a political failure in the rhythm of Baltrexit. Of course, this general laughing material must be throughout Europe, just like the Bgret-slash of the British, Icelanders must agree to the market and then refuse to connect to the market. No one, either the EEA or the EU, has anything to do with this package being driven through here and now. He's been waiting ten years, so he can wait longer, at least while no cable is planned, there's nothing to do with this package. It does no good, as they say, neither in the European Union nor in the EEA community. It results in only the cost of my opinion and more trouble in the management of the energy of our Icelanders. It is interesting, Mr. President, to reexamine council members on the same subject, the electric market. Here, for example. To find a speech held on March 22, 2018, by Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson. By permission of the President, I want to quote his speech. It says the highest. Financial and Economic Ministers: ▪ What is human interest in getting under the common energy plant of Europe in our isolated country with our own electricity system? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? This speech gave financial and economic minister just a year ago, the one who is now in the government, and is about to overpreserve us under the common electrical agency of the European Union. I ask: Is it really hope that the National Council of Iceland will not have much confidence when we see and hear such talk and then see how the same people do against what they have spoken and proclaimed? I'm telling you right now, Mr. President, it's sad to see such tactics and how people can carry such things on a table for the nation, ask in one word why in all the world we are on the verge of getting under a common energy market system in Europe and in the other, working hard to get us into this common electrical market system. I'm sorry, but I don't think politicians who act that way toward their people have much confidence in the public and that their days in politics will not be long. Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] I did not finish my speech and wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. This speech is highest. I had been overlooked by the minister of finance of Ben - hadnah the Bjarni of Benediktsson. I may now need to steal the magazine from what? A senator will follow this and read it again. Now, apparently, with this powerful politician, I think about - I have a past in the fine Independence Party, I know why. A member of the advance group was formerly a member, and this changed attitude led to my thinking about what the candidates were doing right now. Well, maybe. A senator imagined why a group as firm as any, as I have observed, would always conclude against the introduction as this, and recently have done so in a field that I don't know how to mention, but I know that was an important conclusion. At what? A senator of some explanation or theory of what causes this complete conversion of members of the council? I'm not sure that many members of the council spoke for the induction here some time ago, but, of course, that's not impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, this is very interesting. I think it's just a good research material, like, for example. Only in political science, how to change one's mind on such subjects without presenting a solid argument. I know quite well at the grass root of the forward party, and I have many good friends there, and I have discussed this matter with them. It has to be said that they are very disagreeable and do not understand the route in these areas. I'd like to mean that so - called heavyweights within the category, as is sometimes mentioned, are very conflicting with this attitude in the leadership of the advance party. You wonder, " What is the cause? ' Is there anything in this matter that they know we don't know? Of course, that's what you're wondering. You would think that they would now want to spread all the information that they possibly can to reason with their own people and the public why they go on this journey that is so common to so many people. As I say, it gives you thought, and I think the leaders of a political party, such as the Foreign Party, may not fully understand the consequences for the nation and future generations, as well as for their political party and political work. They may wake up to a bad dream one day when they see that the band is just gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u157	A respectable president. Yes, they are certainly not simple explanations of this dramatic reversal in one way or another within all the governments. The left green has similarly taken a U-turn in this large picture. If I recall, the senators were left greener all against the introduction of the first energy package. I think I'm right in mind that they've all been against the introduction of the second energy package. Has a what? A senator hears something in the case of a representative of the left green here at the previous or later. which explains this revolution, perhaps in the process, have the viewpoints that are involved in further activation and environmental concerns some of the representatives of the left green who have been brought up in the discussion until now, either during the previous year. or the rest.? I think I saw all the speeches in my previous year. and have been watching them for the second round. I can't remember anything special that would explain the left green belief that the third energy package is perfect and fantastic, but the other two would have been impossible, unless it was the only thing that would be that they are now in the government. Is there any other theory up there? A senator Knows? It would be interesting to know if I missed something. This could be the basis for getting what's right. A council leader of the Left Green here for a conversation with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and I can be happy for him because I'm not so far from the talks I've been giving here that I've been particularly trying to recall the left-left green process when it comes to these energy packages. It is of great interest to consider the Senate hearings, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I will review it below that the extreme opposition that arises from the speeches against energy pack one and two is naturally interesting. You ask yourself, " How can I? ' A senator who gives such powerful and long speeches against the European Union's common electrical market, a energy package two, and a energy package, will be replaced and changed just by the fact that his company has entered the government? I'm so amazed that you hardly have words to describe it and show that people are not so concerned that they are protected when they can change their mind so quickly and completely. I will review this in a talk that follows. I have also noticed that this discussion has little value on the left. No doubt they know the shame of having spoken a lot against energy bags one and two and then plan to run through here with a pack of three just like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u159	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. It's nice to take this discussion because I think the people, the people, are a little bit thinking about it. Here is the government of three classes, and these three classes had, as I know, all of them declared that they would not go on this journey. But then they have a mind, and you ask them: Is it part of the Treaty that this is done, or does the pressure come from somewhere else that the government feels it is necessary to give in but does not reveal? And it was mentioned in a talk earlier that even former leaders of these classes, the harshest followers, have declared that there is no room for such a course. It attracted the attention of the natives of the day when the former minister and chairman of the Independence Party, Davíð Oddsson, wrote in the Morning article, he believed that by this procedure, or could be read from that article all the way, the Independence Party could simply be wiped out, but it was alluded to the conclusion of the article that they might reach a member of the council. Is there something else that is behind it, or is it something that can be explained and could be called for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. In view of what we have been discussing here, these are truly legitimate thoughts and natural ones. You can't quite figure it out, like I've been over, why this transition is. But what interests me most is that these matters are clearly not of great concern to those politicians and generals. One of the most important qualities of politicians is trust and credibility. They have long talks, powerful speeches, and some held for a year - that this package of energy is not to be introduced, and what the European Union's countries have to say on our matters, etc., feel it all for reasons - and then they need to sit in a government and change it as if it were nothing and not worry about what they said, even less than a year ago. It is a mystery to me, Mr. President, how politicians can afford to treat their people. I just have to say it. There is no evidence to recommend such an appearance. Granted, men may change their mind, but the same is true. It's a pack of energy and a pack of two energy and a pack of three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u161	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Now I'm so involved that I'm relatively new to be in here as a deputy and have only a few hours spent at the council and on committees. But somehow it was my understanding that in the commission work it was so that the committee's committee of stakeholders and clients, after an incident, to get people's viewpoint, their viewpoint, and then to process the information that would be there -- I would love to be corrected if I am wrong - and then to prepare a judicial opinion on each case, which would be brought upon by the Generalis to work with and, after events, shapes of Congress laws or law. Today, in this particular case, it has become quite clear that the nation's majority seem to be at odds with the practices or results being presented here. And 70% of the executives in charge of the State Department said they were opposed to what is being prepared today. Is it unusual to work against the will of a greater proportion of those who appear on committees when the committee is taken, as this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There are natural striking numbers as hell. A senator mentions. I didn't know the best thing to say is that such a high percentage of visitors to the State Department of State and this energy package had been used to dissuade it. So these are striking figures, 70%, who now tell their own story and just amazing that the government should not take this into account and consider it better, at least Then, in the autumn of the month, a better review, more guests, etc. and show good work ethic. But we see this work in other matters. We saw this in the abortion case, where the Central Party specifically asked for more guests. They did not listen. Even wished at least one special member of the council after further review and trying to make peace with the number of weeks we discussed. At the same time, they did not listen. So this work is very strange, and it is not for the benefit of the council at all. With the council members and the president of the council, we must unite in improving our position toward the public, that the public is getting greater confidence in the activities of the Generals. But everything here is done in the opposite direction. And hard work, such as this conference meeting here and how the President has ignored us regarding the meeting period, is naturally just to show the public that things are getting worse here, if anything happens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u163	Mr. President. The morning light is now being started. Our spring mornings are often beautiful in their stillness. I walked from door to door and met the first one tomorrow on my first walk. Of course, it is unnatural to discuss this matter at this time of the day, but I am not complaining about it. We will discuss important matters that are truly relevant to the national soul. During the early part of the last century, Iceland and I began to engage and make small - men in many parts of the country, especially in the South. Then it grew over the years until we started applying larger rivers and then rivers, then the big tides, the glaciers. From the middle of the last century, we began to build monumental workers and sold the energy we harnessed to achieve a major industry. It was there that the sense of nationality made us so fortunate that we would have enough energy in this country. That's possible. The reason why much of the nation has strong opinions about the energy resource and its provision, and has been reciprocated if people proclaim some sort of fundamental change in their order. Of course. The struggle on fishing the resources that have been available for decades is known. Much more of the nation is concerned with resource issues. Fallpower is one of our most important resources, if not the most important. Of this, all of us can agree. From the very beginning, of course, it was thought that when this huge investment compared to our small society was met, the nation would enjoy its fruits, and its inhabitants would look forward to a better future and lower energy bills. Later, in fact, many of the same products were produced by other major plants and industry, but the inhabitants agreed that these were actually sacrifices worth offering where the next generation would benefit. The superintendents were from the nation's beginning, as well as the distribution system. We've enjoyed the relatively inexpensive use of electricity in this country. We are to protect these valuable things that previous generations have built up in our behalf for the future. It has been the policy of the Icelandic government for decades, no matter who has been in charge, to use the national electricity resources for the development of employment in Iceland, and to strengthen the country's population. It has been a fundamental government policy in their efforts to enhance the variety of the nation's economy, which has been highly monotonous and highly dependent, for example. Fishing. Government policies that have largely been agreed on by governments have been known as industrialism and have been known as a 50 - year - old. History. A major policy involves the production of electricity sold within the country's low cost of a major foreign industry. This has been done and is forced to do it, to sell energy relatively cheap, with the assurance that later money would come to the nation. It would be possible to lower the value of electrical energy. It's like when you find oil in a small country. Of course, oil in such places is cheap. The people enjoy it, enjoy the resources. It was the way it was when we started building these inducers and selling them for industry, that we would pay them down and enjoy them later. Busting, in use in 1969, marks the beginning of the big industrial policy, which was the first major inactivation of the Icelanders, and built to see Straumsvík's plant for electricity. Since then, several major mines have been built. The last major activation was 690 megawatts, in the highlands of Iceland, north of Lake Bay, and was used in 2007, with the activation of Alcoa's cell at an electrical emergency. The construction and construction of the fortresses is part of the government's regional policy, which is also decades old and has been paralleled by this policy, i.e. Enforcement policy, industrial policy, regional policy. That must have been the same. Of course, people care about the future of this resource, of course they are concerned when it is announced that there will be laws made in Europe and we are going to introduce them. Of course, people are concerned and comment on them, rightly. Of course. It is so obvious and so simple to realize, and it turns out that most people have an opinion about it. There are few people who are not concerned about this. And we have opinions here, fortunately, even though we have to speak for only the morning wakers. The reviews of this case to the State Department were just about 50, I think. Not all of them were found in what I opened, but most of them were negative. I counted it together. I may have thought that wasn't entirely right, but there were 13 positive 32 negatives. I'm not gonna say it's official numbers, but it's pretty close to what I read about it. What's interesting about reading these reviews is a few things. First, many people send in envelopes. They're mostly against the energy package, they don't think they should introduce it. Then there's the next category, which are institutions; power companies, the energy company, host companies. They are usually positive. Official enterprises, which are not many, are also positive, i.e. Government agencies. On the other hand, I find that rural societies, which are not many, but none, are all negative, if I have read it correctly. That's interesting. People are interested in this case. People are interested in it, are wary of it, the communities in the country are taking a warning, but the federal institutions are celebrating the case and urging that it be approved. I'm not going to read this whole thing up here. In view of the polls, it makes me think about what some have suggested, and many people have said: " It's just a convenient matter to include in the National Remuneration. It's very convenient. Of course, this is a fear - inspiring experience. I understand that. But what would we be able to accomplish by setting this up in a national law? We'd start a discussion. It would be a huge debate, both in and out of turn. The case would be enlightened. The subject would be largely discussed in society, in media, in Internet and magazines, on TV, in interviews, in advertising, and in anything. Opinions would be divided, of course. That's what I'm saying. This is exactly the case that should be paid nationally. I'm not even halfway through my speech, Mr. President, and I'd like the president to put me back on the rosary because I see my time running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u164	A respectable president. There are not many talks in the council that could be published and published in a book. But this was one of their talks. I want to thank you. paritaprevir In particular, Karl Gauti Hjaltason for this remarkable historical review, which links energy issues to national development, in the context of economic development and the importance of using the energy to build the whole country. However, this fine talk, which will be only halfway at most, raises some questions in view of what we are discussing today. Then we'll come to what I hit a little bit earlier, and we'll keep at least that. one talk about the following. It is the big picture, the vision of the future, if this package of energy penetrates and achieves what is expected of the European Union, i.e. if he leads to the image he is designed for. Then I'm afraid - and now I ask why. A senator after his excellent tour: If he agrees that we could then be faced instead of being used by the Icelandic energy to promote employment and the settlements of the country, it will be a foreign company that uses energy - we have seen the sale of land and water rights. - Foreign companies that use this energy sell it to foreign countries where it's new for employment and earn the money that never comes back to the country? So that our most important resource, even, will hardly have to foretell the country's settlements and the Icelandic economy if this goes to its end in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. You can think about it. I believe that the activation of the fallwaters is closely related to urban development in the country. It is also closely linked to professional development. He spoke of the big movie, the vision of the future. I don't want to get used to it -- and not at all, I avoid it - painting the future in black color. I don't want to do that. Of course, in our lifetime, we have seen so much changes and advances in technology that some sea cable between countries, even though it is now overcoming this challenge to go from Iceland to Britain, may be much easier as time goes on. We have seen in many technological advances that distances are very fast as technology moves rapidly. So it could be sooner than we know that someone wants to take a cable from Iceland. This could happen much sooner than we can endure because of technological progress. Then I agree. A member of this Regulation, the energy package, gives us a vision into a future that may not be the most desirable thing for us here on balance with electrical prices, letting people through this on some European decision. Obviously, it could lead to a higher electrical price at home if people don't stand on their feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u166	President. All right, then. A senator is an optimist. I really appreciate it. Then let me rephrase the question, "May." A senator agreed that if the goals described in this energy package about the integration of the European electricity system, reach Iceland and Iceland, it becomes part of the interconnected system, there is a significant risk that the history of which the energy system is connected. In his talk, a senator described the energy used to build up employment and various areas of life - at least Much of this energy is removed from the country, and as a result it is not used to build up at home and to make the income of it, to live in foreign lands, to fall out of the country too? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u167	Mr. President. Let's assume that Europe's electricity system, including Iceland, would be interconnected, i.e. with sea cables, as it is in Europe today, there are sea cables in the North Sea and between Denmark and Norway and there, wide and wide over the memory of swimming - and if we added there by means of the introduction of this regular work that we are dealing with, of course, there is a serious risk that we will lose our grip on it. Of course it depends on the government, etc. There may be demands that a bigger power company be separated, and then we will soon be able to do that by means of this rule, we would lose control of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u168	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Karl Gauti Hjaltason for a very good speech, as mentioned earlier, an explanation of history, and perhaps an explanation of how our energy has affected our nation and the progress of prosperity in this country. This has been introduced here as if it had nothing to do with it, this induction, nothing at all. It's really a complete formality that's about -- I don't really know what, if it doesn't matter because it matters to me. A senator asks: " What if we lose our grip on this matter? The sheets on what? Yes, that's the upcoming control, the management of this energy resource, of the resource. We've got more resources, like that. The fish stocks and resources of the ocean around Iceland and the Earthman, the possibility of deepwater, the possibility of building wind power gardens in windy areas. I'd like to get it better by then. A senator: What does he think is going to happen? Will we be, then, a kind of developing society that sells the energy, the resource, unsurpassed from within the country? Is that what he fears, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, for his question and for his praise for this speech. That it is so good that it should be published, I certainly don't agree with it. Economics, yes - I think the activation of the falling waters has had tremendous effects and perhaps more than people realize today. We've come a little bit from this in time, the beginning that's to say. We started this tour in 1960. We are quite far away from that time, and people may want to forget it. I think this is a very important part of the nation's prosperity today, i.e. that we have been able to harness the fallen waters and create a network that is powerful. This is a large part of Israel's progress, prosperity, and wealth. Maybe then I'll come to a question. Senator on the dangers. We'll never lose these waters, they'll always be in Iceland. No one takes them. What may be bought and sold is rather the right to use it. It is all subject to governments at any given time. It is now that governments come and go. It is important that they stand on their feet and do not drift away from the nation and these basic ideas that we should benefit from our resources and that governments do not have too much to do with the privatization of the nation's resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u170	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the answer. Then we are here to discuss how we would lose this right to use or the definition of it. Have we come to this place, if such an opportunity, that there was something here that wouldn't be defined well enough, not clearly defined? Has the usefulness or provision of the energy sources been clearly defined and defined? Is it then done, given that it is done, in that we are content with that, i.e. The people? We're talking about our energy resource. Is this a clear and well - defined source for the use of these resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u171	Mr. President. Yes, thank you for these questions. Therefore, in my speech, in control of the resources, and in control of the rights to use them, I pointed out that this is the very case that should be set up in a national law, allowing the nation to decide the way we go. It is also necessary, and I agree with those who have fought for, that the right to use water and energy is clear in a constitution, very clear, to prevent this from going into the hands of private members. I'm not against the fact that private people will use it, but they will have to pay a price to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a really good speech. It is a pleasure to bring such an accurate historical summary of the importance of our nation and of our progress in having enough energy. I'd like to come in with you for a second. A member of the Parliament how the EEA contract has changed in a number of ways since it went into effect. Former secretary of state, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, has said that in the end of the European Economic Convention, in the Treaty itself, a common energy market was never discussed. Nor was it ever discussed that the day would require that we open the land to the import of unbridled meat, thus endangering our clean agriculture. The day has come, and the government has given up on that matter. In the autumn months, we will see that this is where raw European meat is being moved, headed for high risk for our clean agriculture and livestock stocks. The bottom line is this: The EEA deal adopted at the council 25 years ago is not the EEA deal we are on today. It is crystal crystal clear in the big matter we are discussing here. So I ask you, should we just take this without murmuring, even though this has not been introduced in the beginning? In case of a moment. A senator could only answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u173	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. Yes, the EEA deal has been developing. He's been coming forward. As we'll see here at the council, we are regularly recorded and in abundance recorded in Icelandic. For this rule of action, the third energy package: There seems to be something shy about sending it back to the joint EEA committee. Then I'd like to point out that it's only in the law itself, in the EEA Convention, a channel for such a conflict, as we have here. If that was the conclusion that we did not want to record it that way, that channel exists. He's legal and he's the way to the deal. That's why I don't realize why people don't just want to go that way. Heaven and earth will not perish at that. That is exactly what scholars have mentioned. Although some people have doubts that it might cause confusion, political, or agitate the partnership, I don't think so. It's in the contract and we have this. We have the right to do this. So I think it's just a really good way. About what Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson should have said, that the energy issues were not part of the original EEA business, I haven't checked it myself, but I would like to get the answer. But he has claimed this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u174	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's reply is clear. Can't it be said that this could be just the case, if we take this legal way, taking the case to the joint EEA committee? That it was never originally expected when we joined the European Economic Area that energy would be included and defined as any other product? There's got to be a way to say that this is a reason for us, if we make this legal way that the government is so incredulously afraid of, which is a complete mystery why. That there is an argument on the subject that should matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u175	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. Of course, there is an important argument, if that is the case with Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson. I tend to believe what he claims about the EEA deal. I think it's simple for smart men in this field to simply look it up. Then there is no doubt about it. If it is so that it was not in the original agreement, nothing at all mentioned, there is, of course, evidence for sending it back into the joint committee. A very important argument. It is no less important that we can, of course, point to the fact that this is a very important resource in the national community, and it has been ever since we began to activate these major falling waters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u176	On behalf of Generalis, yesterday, Tuesday, May 14, the President received a signing list from our representatives of the Orc, who are challenged by members of the Parliament to reject the third energy package. The business has been presented in a reading hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u177	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. If there is no disagreement on this subject, it will be accepted. [[Up front.]] As is well known, there is a considerable length of the talk list on the subject under consideration. It is the order of the president to clear this matter as far as possible until the evening. Hopefully, this is going well and has not been taken into consideration for a long meeting until the evening. If a vote is not requested, the president will allow himself to be viewed as being accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u178	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1349 construction reforms for mold, from Álfheiður Ingadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u179	To answer, financial and economic ministers, social and child - care ministers and transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u180	Mr. President. Today, there are eight days left of this legislature, except for the other day, according to the Council's Work Programme. We're gonna have a financial programme next week, probably a lot of changes due to adverse economic predictions introduced by the Habitat at dawn. Like many others, I worry about how high it is. The government will respond, both on the pay-side and on the side of the income. Especially is this year, and the next important year, this year as a box for budgets or the use of reserves, and the next as a box for budgeting regulations 2020. Hv. Government officials may say that they are not deeply concerned about the loss of a government operation or of planned infrastructure because of worse economic predictions that the rest is rife and that it can only be handled and that the plan is otherwise established. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the economy whether he feels the same way. Generals. In the 10th. law on government finance is a strict requirement for changing the financial policies of governments and approved by the General Assembly for the terms of the term. Tells you the highest. Is it possible for a financial and economic minister to take over an estimated budget and to compromise the government's financial policy adopted last year in the economic situation, without changing the law on public finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u181	A respectable president. I'm not quite sure I understood the inquiry. Is it possible to walk the rest without changing official financial laws? If the question is that it is obvious that each year's budget is adopted here at the council, and the idea is in the law that we set the budget up in accordance with the plan, which is called back to the policies we set in the beginning of a terms period. Of course, things can come up in the middle of a budget year, resulting in the failure of the financial bill. It is going to be that way this year that the huge amount of money we supplied on the budget of the current year will be very different and much smaller. This will greatly reduce the growth of the State of the year on the basis of changes in the economy, so the budget at any given time is, of course, predicting how certain national economics will develop into the future. If the basis then breaks, it affects both the income and the remuneration sides. I mention, for example, that unemployment benefits this year are going to mount up and grow into billions higher than we anticipated. I think the most important question in the situation that exists today is not to 2019 but rather to the coming years. What we're dealing with now, after a new economic forecast was published on Friday, is the greatest change in economic growth we've seen for decades when the collapse is taken aside, i.e. There is the worst change between predictions. The question we face is, Do I not really have to, and I agree to, bring up a new financial policy that points to the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u182	Mr. President. I understand the highest. A minister that considers them, because he wants to bring in a new financial policy, that the basic pioneers of today's policy and was accepted in the past broken or predicted that they will be missed by economic failures, national years, or other circumstances that are impossible to deal with by means of available resources. It's in 1 0... it's a government law. There are very narrow limits to changing policy if it has been approved for the terms of the season and is intended to sustain governments. When things go slightly wrong, they should respond, either by cuts or by income. Is it so great? A minister looks at the situation similar to that of a economic crash or a different national threat and is therefore the basis for changing policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u183	A respectable president. I think there's a very different basis, yes. I reasoned earlier that the change between predictions is quite historical. But I don't think this in itself is the main thing. I really think this is a debate about whether you're going to be a formalist and say, what Iceland needs in 2019 is that the project is being held in 2017. That is what will ensure the prosperity of the cities of the country, that we are doing the rest that we predicted would be in public finance in 2020, as we saw it in 2017. Or that people are practitioners and ask serious questions such as this: What is it in public finance that best benefits the economy and the people living in this country today? [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is the real question - except if one is going to be a formalist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u184	A respectable president. The first 65,000. a month from a pension fund, but 0 for disability. 100% tax of a pension fund is nothing more than economic violence of the worst kind. The possession of the law-enforced savings of them. And not only are they being kicked into the financial security of the cripples but they are also tramped on with dirty taxes. 780,000 a year is this account of property. A dollar a year is still inside. I saw a headline the other day: A crown against a dollar's decrease will be removed. When I read the story, I noticed that it quoted Daðason Mydason, the highest. Social and child - care minister, and it was found to reduce the effectiveness of a penny against a dollar. What does that mean? Yeah, it's probably supposed to be in stages. What does that mean? Yes, if they become others, they should have some leftovers. And in financial planning, there will clearly be no leftovers. We are talking about 2.9 billion. How is that to be divided? When? We're talking about 4 billion more next year. That won't do. There's only one fourth up to what's needed. We're talking about 2.9 billion capable of 10,000 bucks. per month. What, though, is the amount that needs to be taken? Now it's over 50,000 bucks. It tells itself that this will require at least 12 billion. The question is also, What is to be done over a period of time? One year? Two years? Ten years? A year? Twelfth? No answers have been made. So surprised. The minister and the government agree that disability has not signed a new work programme. They no longer trust them because they betray everything they promise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It's been way too long since me and what. A senator has discussed the matter here at the council. What I'd like to say about this is that it's a tremendous pleasure for the working group, the one who's sick. A senator was seated, has now returned. It is true that there were conflicting opinions on the final outcome, but there was a general agreement, I would like to say, the importance of making changes in the social security system, that it has to be simple. There was a general agreement that we would have to come together to reduce the incidence of disability in Iceland, including Because analysis has shown that if we do not do anything in that category, there will not be much money to provide additional provisions for those who truly need it. If there is no change, the money the state needs to make will increase dramatically. In 2016 it was 41 billion. If the incidence continues to increase as it has been in recent years, it will reach 90 billion in 2030. This does not include any actions to improve the benefit of this group. The budget of the current year is estimated to include 2.9 billion running to improve the quality of biofuels. Following this report, we will first and last look to reduce the decline within the system with the 2.9 billion available. This supports the conclusions of this group and supports the work that we then need to engage in. We assume that the bill of this material will be submitted next week at the council. This is being concluded, and a lecture is being made both to the Ministry of Economics and to the Ministry of Presidency. I hope it can enter the council next week. I have stressed that there could be a law by the end of the council. It has to do with exactly how we reduce the decline and use the 2.9 billion in the event party in the present year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u186	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. He says it should begin - these 2.9 billion. Then it must be used immediately. But that's only 10,000 bucks. per month. This is just one fifth of a dollar in return to a dollar. When are we going to get it over with? There's nothing to worry about making sure the first 65,000 bucks. a month, a pension savings - this is a law-enforced pension savings, a property product. He's tagged, 65,000 bucks, 780 grand a year. Nothing to do with it? This takes most of the loss of women because they have less pension than men. Why is nothing being done about this matter? And when do you want to complete a cent for a dollar's impairment? In one year, two or three years, ten years?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u187	A respectable president. It is 2.9 billion that we have a budget for the current year's budget. It is assumed that the bill on how it will be taken care of will be settled from the government as soon as possible so that we can discuss it and complete it by the end of the council. It is important that these funds be used during the present year. I hope so. We have presented the Commission of the Qualification Society with a plan on how we plan them and are considering certain factors that it pointed out. As this bill continues, it may become a law by the end of the council. However, I would like to reiterate that it is extremely important when we take this discussion to reduce the incidence of disability, and I hope that it will be. A senator join us in the government. The amount I mentioned earlier, 41 billion in 2016, if nothing is done, will be 90 billion in 2030. Of course, if there is no increased income for the groups involved, there will not be much to spare. [[The president calls.]] That's why we together have to take that step, and I call for it. A senator will follow the government in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u188	V.E.G. President. A lot has been discussed in the media recently regarding flying in Iceland. After the fall of WOWair at the end of March, It was found that Istavia, an official partner, had been known for some time by society's management problems. The bank barn is a fresh memory to all of us. Its leading and consequences will soon be forgotten. A person who does not learn from history is sentenced to repeat it. What you learn can include The failure of the government and post-requisite organisations, responsibilities for monitoring roles and follow-up when it was realized that certain companies were not operating or faced a business problem that had to be handled before the issue was due. As a result of this efficiency and inaction, they became Icelandic homes, taxpayers, and pensioners who were affected by some of the lives of people in some cases. Istavia is a government partner and the government's owner is the highest. Secretary of finance. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance two questions: Has or had Istavia ohf. permission to provide pay or special pay for individual pilots to form landing charges or services, and thereby a competitive advantage on the free market of the European Economic Area or by not collecting public debt? If so, what is their sources exactly, and where do they originate by law or by regulations? Who is in a position to provide such authority? Second, have the highest. Financial Ministers and post-traumatic cases by other government ministers had information on action or the occurrence of inactions by public health care providers such as the Association Agency or the Management Board, such as Isavia ohf.? And if so, how long had there been information available to the Ministers and Ministry for the crash of the airline?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u189	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It's so fun that he's working very hard in this business. I'd like to start off with the fact that Istavia is not an airline surveillance agent. Istavia is a business partner. It's not Istavia that releases airlines. It is not a requirement for flying society that Istavia has to be handled there. And it is not Istavia who makes a decision to get paid with commitments. Rather, it is like many and all other flight crews involved in business with that on business grounds. The sources are in the business plan. They are found in part of your partner plan as such. I'm aware of all the business decisions taken by the Istavia administration. Hv. A member of the United States claims that because of the activity of this airline, the homes of the country were affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u190	The bank barn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u191	Because of the collapse of the bank. All right, then I've misunderstood something. But I'd like to keep the economy in place because this airline has stopped working. At the same time, however, the economy has benefited greatly from both the international flying competition and the social activity. Governments have been very attentive, both at the Ministerial Committee, but also to ministers in their field as far as the material is concerned, from the time it became evident that the Society was having trouble making money through the bond tenders of the last fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u192	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I may not have been clear enough, but in the introduction, I talked about the bank crash in relation to the lack of proper follow-up with surveillance agents. I linked it that way. But my question, in particular, was about how long men had been aware of the problem and perhaps so serious that it would not be fatal to intervene in earlier stages. It's clear that if a company is in business and gets the lead on these grounds, it can harm another company while and, as in this case, there were certainly a lot of people who had to deal with the sheep, the airline staff, possibly taxpayers, and most of all, government funds. [[The president calls.]] For example, public fees such as pensions had not been obtained during the past month before the collapse of the Society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u193	A respectable president. Of course, these are important factors, and I am in no position in itself to make any judgments definitively concerning whether everywhere and at all levels the right decision has always been made, whether at the Association Lab, which is not actually under my office, or in the administration of Istavia, an independent government. But what I've seen, I believe, was all grammatical and built on the right foundation. On the one hand, as if I were, it has been said that the situation had called for a very close monitoring of the operation. It was almost breathed down the neck language of the financial directors and directors on the precise status of the situation at any given time, and there was a reliable plan to overcome the situation so that the license was not removed. It was an assessment at any time that was frequently updated. [[The president calls.]] For Istavia it really was the same, there had to be a plan to repay the debt that was building up and the company had to make a business decision about whether they wanted to work according to that plan or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u194	A respectable president. Financial and economic ministers. On the board of directors' website, the government's support for the biographies is discussed. It mentions 45 points made by the government and refers to a document that reviews these points. Sadly, this document contains just 38 things, and no one has been able to explain to me which seven things are missing. However, it is less important than what I'm going to ask a minister that during the one and a half months since this government support was announced, there has not been a single comment as to what that support means in the context of the financial program that the Senate is in its final meters. A financial committee does not know how the government's support of life document agreements is affected. The labour market members who have visited the branch office do not know either. So I'd like to ask a minister if he knows and when he's going to let the rest of us know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u195	A respectable president. So I understand that this inquiry is about how the declaration affects the financial agenda. So there are cases that are already funded by an existing strategy. Thus, there is the fact that income tax changes have been included in the financial programme of this government and the scope for tax doctors and improvement is still in there. Improvements in these changes need to be financed. I think this will be explained further by the final payment on the budget and in the processing of the budget committee. To get the bottom of all that work, we first have to take up the income and pay off the side so we can see what the overall picture looks like with the new economy in our hands. In the foundation the answer is to the most extent, to the extent necessary for special funding, it is to be found in an existing financial program. In some respects, special measures will need to be set aside for and prioritized. Then there are some actions that will cost nothing. Let me mention, for example, that I gave this week a bill on the extension of warrants for the two more years of Special Parsing. There will be no effect, either on the income or on the pay-off side over the next few years, extending that warrant. This gives us an example of an operation that supports the lifetime contracts without moving on a financial agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u196	A respectable president. This is truly remarkable, since the parties came for meetings and claimed that they had achieved as well as possible, and now they would need loyal government support in order to communicate. As a result, this 45 - point biographer agreement, the support of governments, that all who had studied financial programs, saw that most of it was in a financial program. But what was the tremendous advantage of the government that was needed to close the gap between parties if that was largely true? That's why I don't realize why you can't list very simply what the addition is, now one and a half months later. What else is this matter, and what will it cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u197	A respectable president. I'm afraid that would be the best thing to do. A senator speaking to the officials of the union, who expressed great joy in this declaration, simply asking: "Wait, what was it that you got out of the contracts that matter so much? I think I can honestly predict for us the agreements on behalf of the government that it is of utmost importance how, for example, it is. The tax changes are implemented. We knew the space, but we hadn't built an export to the distribution of that space. We predicted how we could make sure that the overall objective of raising most would be met by those who had less than one hand in mind. It's in the extraction process. There is a new, lower tax level and other changes in the income tax system we've been discussing. Thus, the implementation of the change in birthalorfs, the change in rights to child reform, the implementation of income tax change, etc. was the scene of the decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u198	President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. A congratulating minister with the results of a team on a review of the micro-organization system returned to Minister of Ministers last week. In the foundation, there seems to me a lot of practical suggestions that might be useful in reevaluating from the current pension system, which in many ways has brought us into great trouble and is knowing one of the main reasons why we see so much disability rate as we can see. It features the highest crown of decline, which, in its own case, leads to a severe decrease in the motivation for employment participation, if any, of which may be the case. It's about a lot of things, as I say, excellent suggestions and familiar ones, including... Based on the proposal of a professional group appointed in the middle of 2017 and the proposal of previous work groups on the same subject. However, I am concerned that the proposals are in no way financed in the government budget. V.E.G. A minister has put emphasis on it from the beginning and repeatedly declared that the major weight of these changes will be the exact removal of a dollar to the level of the impairment. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. First of all: When can the proposals of the task force be expected to be fully implemented? Secondly, and I've asked the highest. To that: What is the cost of the suggestions there is, and how do you plan the highest? A minister finances the changes involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. We share the view that it is important to reduce the incidence of disability, as was attributed to a question period earlier. The senator asks when these suggestions will be fully carried out. I think that it may have revealed what was best in the conversation that took place between the two parties that it would be extremely important to have a problem in the processing of a changed system. There are things we need to make sure that we get a change of thinking into the job life, both in the public and in the general market, in order to support in the changing financial arrangements and change the social security system. Asks us when work begins. The key point is that we are now going to start working on a bill. Part of the work on the bill then involves the final estimate of the costs of the individual organisations in these sectors, etc., of which a change of priorities is needed. And that may be added to the plans of the Minister, when it comes to that work, try to get financial support for the Generals. Of course, it makes sense that the funding for that would come from the council. But until then, it becomes part of the work of changing the workforce, preparing us for this changed vision. If we don't win it very fast, there's no point in installing a new system. And that's what they called it. Therefore, the government, and it has been announced, will prepare the strong access of the public system to develop flexible jobs, to build up part - time jobs in the public sector, and to start a conversation with the public market on what kind of work would be done. At the same time, we will start work on preparing the billaries and changes, changed infrastructure, in order to introduce the modified view offered in this report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u200	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister has repeatedly shown that he is well - versed in the Theocratic Ministry School, and he is very impressed to avoid answering questions that are addressed to him. [[Up front.]] It's been tried repeatedly to ask the highest. A master who is slippery like an eel, how much the suggestions will cost, and how to finance them. These are two simple questions. I don't believe anything but to the highest. Ministers know the answer to them. I'd rather expect him to choose not to answer, and I'm sorry. Of course, it is very important for the council to weigh it now when we are at the same time. reviewing financial programmes in the coming weeks what is inexpensive in this financial programme. It's clear to me that there's a legal case at the highest level. A minister is not expected to be at any cost. A minister for information, because I think I recognize the jury and have even asked questions. into the working group how much this will likely cost, it has a size range of 151⁄230 billion depending on the type of output selected. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to answer me in the second answer: How do you intend to do the highest. Will a minister finance expenses now as society squeezes out to make sure that one more trip will not be left behind? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u201	A respectable president. Of course, it is clear that part of this work is to set up part - time jobs and flexible jobs and to support employment, whether on public or public markets. However, the distribution of this is not exactly being done, and as a result, it does not have exactly how much money it will cost. That's where we figured out that we're going to take this path. The changes we make in the social security system now will support it. We're gonna get exactly what the cost will be, and then we're gonna get the funding for the Generals. Me and what. A senator had comparable discussions about the birthworm system a year ago. A senator gave the same talk about the government's inexpensive proposals for birthworm. In time, the money came with it. It will be the same way, a respectable senator, of course, when we are ready to do so. But as long as we're making this accurate and complete, it doesn't exist, any more than it does in the hysteria. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator might come and ask about the birthworm now because it would show that in this matter he is in a circle like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u202	A respectable president. In my opinion, publicisation in Icelandic agriculture is huge if the right thing is handled and you have the guts to get out of the old system that even happens to be the case. The domestic agreements on which this case is based also on the facts. The store contracts that were made back then were bad. They were not primarily good for agriculture, nor were they good for consumers. There's a little positive step here in my opinion, and that's why I'm going to sit by. It's, for example. do not take any products that include keep farmers in the midst of a certain disaster. It needs to open up the system and make it more free so that we can encourage innovation that we really need in the Icelandic agriculture because it's huge. That's why I'm going to be in charge of this case when it comes to the livestock deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u203	Mr. President. I'm going to include some words in the discussion on the current subject. In the past, we can say that both of us have a number of topics that have been discussed on this subject. and, actually, in a subsequent year, as it has been presented, there is reason for comment and correction of viewpoints. V.E.G. President. I have found that, most important, as I have done more research, and the discussion has been raised, that the meaning of this topic in the discussion became considerably more than the point given. I also wanted to say that there are concerns, even world forecasts, as it were, regarding the effect of this energy package is in my opinion without cause and without links to reality. But saying so, I would like to say that I understand that the matter can cause many feelings and concerns. This is understandable because of the state of the country's situation in dealing with other countries of the EEA, the EU situation with the EU and a administrative position which is certainly involved in this discussion; I have understanding and compassion by making it possible for people to approach matters carefully. I also understand that all energy-related issues, in general resources, but notably energy, can be sensitive and make humans want to be careful. I think it is normal, from these two viewpoints, to be thoroughly viewed by humans and others of the same nature, to oversee the potential impact of such induction, whether or not it is going too far compared to the governmental sources that we have and the like. I think there is good reason for this matter to be noticed, and there is every reason for the council to be careful when such issues are discussed. This has been true of the previous EEA cases that have developed at the council. There are some, in fact, far fewer people than are often exposed to public discussions, where there has really been a need to take sides with the Council's administrative agencies for its introduction on the basis of government records. I will not, for the sake of time, go into the unique cases of the sort but more recent issues we have been discussing, e.g. Last year's personal protection, the 2016 financial market, and earlier years, I can mention involvement in the field of flight security, climate and competitiveness. These are some of the problems that have been under test in this regard in the last 15◯20 years. In each of these cases, the council has adopted, discussed, and came to a conclusion about government privileges in this regard. These issues are in their own way, but it can be said that basically, they are linked with the fact that a certain two - sided solution has been identified as a compatible constitution, and so is the case. Of course, when I came to this case at earlier levels as a member of the council and president of the Foreign Affairs Committee in 2013-2015, this was the question, Was this really a compatible constitution? During 2014 and 2015, I recall several letters and several meetings in a foreign press committee where these cases were addressed. In fact, a board of administrations and monitoring committees also discussed these factors and the job management committee at the time. The result of the work was that the way in which this Regulation is introduced was a compatible constitution. This aspect of the matter, it could be said, was reinforced to a great degree by both the legal opinions that have been made this year and the last, and the evidence is presented in the case, and especially the final application that was made when the case was presented in March/ April's annual assembly. I'll mention it because I think the point might be in this. I think we can say that what the council needs to think about, when administrative warnings are lifted in this matter, is primarily whether we are going beyond what we are allowed to do in relation to the Constitution, and that is why I will make it my main focus here today. Before taking this part, I'd like to say that there are other concerns and statements that have been made in this discussion - about a vast passage of authority over the energy resource and energy of the Icelanders to the European Union or abroad, about how it would be impossible for the Icelandic government to resist the requirements for fixing a cable and then about the consequences of the development of sea cables possibly affecting electrical prices and such factors - all of which have been very clear and clearly answered in this discussion. We should not have to spend much more time on those views. I'm not going to condemn one or any of them in this discussion, whether it's in the debates here or in the council committees, but I don't believe that, based on the reviews that have taken place, there is a need to worry or to share more. It is not the fact that the resource is being given to foreigners, the energy resource for the Icelanders. You're not giving up the energy resource. Nothing in this matter gives us reason to conclude. On the one hand, there is nothing in this matter that makes you worry that a cable will be laid if there is no will in this room and from the government of the United States. No one will be forced to do the same or anybody in that relationship. Third, there is no need to worry about the secondary effects of a cable on this matter. If there is a suggestion to place sea cables for energy sales in other countries, we can ponder over the advantages and failures to make them. Then we can wonder what that means. That's not what we're doing. We are not taking a stand on that question in this matter. But again regarding the administrative part, I think that in this case, extraordinary preparatory work and detailed reporting have been provided by a number of legal scholars, many with expertise in exactly the areas under consideration, in the administrative rights, in Europe's rights, and in energy rights. We can say that these opinions are all one way only in one way. There is a definite distinction between the opinion of scholars on one point, so we simplify it, that is, primarily, one factor in which there is a definite distinction between what is going on. On the one hand, it is the viewpoint that has been expressed in Stephen's multiplaguing essay, the Már of Friðrik and Friurik of Frildur, the Friðriksson of Hirst, and all others, the son of Skúli Magnússon, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, Tjörvi, the Ólafur of Tjork, Olefur Jóhannes Einarsson, etc. There is one difference. And what is it? Yes, there is a question about whether any particular aspects of these types that require that under certain circumstances the EFTA monitoring agency be entrusted with a ruling authority in certain controversies, whether they are compatible with the European Commission. To make this easier, it can be said that scholars have proposed it - and even though wording differs, the approach is always the same - that there are some authority available to the legislature for the legislature to international or multinational institutions that Iceland is involved in the specific requirements fulfilled. In this matter, the distinction between scholars'opinion of one thing is about one, i.e. Whether the expeditation of these specific documents for the EFTA monitoring agency is limited and well-targeted. That's really just what's considered between Stefánsson's Már and Friðrik the Árni Fridik's Friðriksson Hirst and the others. The Friðrik of the Árni and the Már feel that this is not well - founded, that it is too extensive a form of authority, while other scholars have reached a different conclusion. If we're going to sum up what's presented in these opinions, I think there's a difference. For other conditions, there is no difference between scholars in their fulfillment. Another understanding of the requirement for a limited supply and in a limited field is the Friðrik Árni and the Már. I can say that for some time I have come to the conclusion that I believe that the exuberance involved in the EFTA Monitoring Institute is in a well - defined and limited field, and therefore is more likely to agree with others who have written about this, and I specifically mention Davíð Þór Björgvinsson and Skúli Magnússon, both of whom entered this most detailed and practical work. However, it can be said that in the way the government decided to go to the final stage of the matter, before the matter was submitted to the council, there is this controversy or this doubt if we can say so, aside. The Már and the Friðrik Árni say it is somewhere in such a way that it is postponed. In any case, considering the suit today does not test this administrative feature until and if a decision is made about the fixation of an ocean cable - which is not on the schedule, just so that it is repeated. It's not on the agenda. Although there have been many speculations and discussions, proposals, and reports in recent years, there are no plans or plans for any more part of the Council of England. Personally, I think it's quite a distance. However, it may be said that this is the way in which a certain delay in this matter of opinion is under way, and it also promises that if the council is faced with making such a decision, this administrative element will be taken up, reviewed, and again discussed before making a decision. The only thing in which we can say that different viewpoints have been placed on the part of scholars is taken aside and stored until it becomes practitiony, so to speak, because it will under no circumstances be practitiony unless we face the decision of a sea cable. This point, I think, is something that must be kept in mind in this discussion, so I have no doubt that the way we offer in this matter is a constitution. We are not violating a constitution with what we are doing. The anxieties, the criticisms, and the comments that have been made in this case are unconvinced to me, are not valid, when we consider the situation in the suit it is presented, as we consider the way the Icelandic government has made a statement, what decisions we are making in order to hide the council, and so on. Although there may have been legitimate and sound reasons to be cautious about this matter, the conclusion is presented in this way, in a suit, in the worries and comments and critical voices that have occurred in my opinion were answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u204	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, although I may not be able to agree entirely with his interpretations or the comparison of existing legal views. But let's leave it to each other for a while. At Congress proposals, it's the highest. Secretary of State says, with the permission of the President: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 implemented in Icelandic just the standard way, but legally under legal notice, the report on what will be the content of this legal issue - ▪ that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy markets only if the exception of a review of the Regulation's legislation on the basis of its cross-border connections will not be carried out until the revision is completed. So here is a plan for a legal document. I allowed myself in my speech yesterday to advertise by that document, and I want to use this opportunity as a talk on the subject that may be considered the chief member of the government's support team as the head of the Independence Party. Has he seen that legal advance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u205	V.E.G. President. The legal arrangement is revealed in the rest of the case. A legal advance is not something you find a model in a legal foreword book. It is known that by means of the induction of these regulations and regulations, we are using conventional means. However, it is clear that the greater part of the council that will issue the matter will provide the legal basis for making this legal decision in terms of the linking between countries, the linking through the cables, reviews and reviews of the administrative factors before making decisions about this connection. Such suggestions are not available and such decisions are not in preparation or level. We can call this a legal statement or a statement or anything, but materially, I think. A senator does not have to question what this means for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u206	Mr. President. I think there's an amazing answer to that question. A senator's failure to assume that the legal guardian who has been made clear to have a great deal of significance in this case even exists as a document, if properly understood. I'm going to say then that the concept of this legal advance is very late, and none of the estimates that exist other than the opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik, Frirdur's Friðriksson Hirst, since the possibility of being torn in seven and a half lines, is about that legal advance. I reiterate what I've said before: There is no legal basis for any legal opinion on the national merit of the kind being proclaimed. It says, I'm going to read a paper with the Congress resolution of the Foreign Minister: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced into Icelandic rights
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u207	Mr. President. The legal court has been put on declarations by the Icelandic government and in the common EFTA declaration, now the last May. In substance, he agrees, although he may appear to be using different expressions. In the end, it is the points that, if any, are clear in all of this. There is some doubt in the matter of what it means for the Icelandic government to make this declaration, in the case of the meeting of the European Commission on May 8, with the members of the EFTA countries, that there is no such issue as rule, cross-country between countries through sea cables, they will be considered and discussed before a decision regarding such a transformation is mentioned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is, in effect, no doubt about it. There is no doubt about it, whether within the country to what has been done on the part of the European government or to the figures presented, both orally and by letter, to member countries of the European Economic Areas at the centre of the common EEA Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u208	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Prehistoric Birgir of the Ármannsson. There is much talk about legal opinions that we have received and that they agree in most respects but possibly not all. However, there is little mention in the specific areas of this opinion. It goes far, the opinions are expressed solely in the reports, that when Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, appeared before the State Department of State and was asked something out of the framework of his opinion, he said that he did not represent comments on that matter. He would have been asked to answer only certain points of opinion, and that was what he did. However, Skúli Magnússon gives us more insight into what happens when and if we had the connection, once we had activated 7,9. Gr., and it's not quite the same. What I want to ask you is why. A senator is, if we are wondering: " What do we really have to do with the internal market of Europe talking about electricity in an isolated host in Iceland in Brussels? That's what it's all about. Wouldn't it be more pure, when we call out for counseling, our legal genius, that we would try to get as many people as possible, not just some administrative notice as one of them, Björgvinsson Þór Björvvinson's son, said that there was really just a home bridge, had nothing to do with it? Then there's an order of opinion, ordered by a representative or former judge of the EFTA Court, Carl Baudenbacher, and you haven't quite figured out why. I think it's all about that - I'll bring it back later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u210	V.E.G. President. First of what the council and the government have done. When questions arise as to whether the introduction of certain EEA types is compatible with the Constitution, some experts, sometimes more, are sought to form legal opinions that may be the basis for the General decision in this regard. This was done in the same way as has been done in all parts of the world before, but unusual in the sense that more experts have been consulted and called for more opinions on these administrative issues than in most of the cases we have had in which similar questions have arisen. I hope this explains the point. For the other thing, at least. President, asks why. A senator what we have to do with an Icelandic energy case in Brussels. The situation is by recording IV. An Annex to the 1994 EEA Convention was a language of energy inside. Energy issues have indeed increased into the area of the inner market with the first and other energy package. So is this also. As participants in the internal market, we must take a position on the induction rules that apply to the internal energy market unless we see in some way a reason to reject such induction. It must be on the basis of some real interest, real opinion, real anxiety that we have, not just because of some general irritation toward European cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u211	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There is no general irritability on my part to our wonderful cooperation with the EEA Convention, not at all. I'm proud of that deal, and I actually felt at a certain point that it was just the best thing that ever happened to us. It doesn't change the fact that I'd rather ask who our deal really is now that we're in a contract with the European Economic Area. Do we have no right to put these things to the test? Pointing to legal records makes it clear to StefánMár the son of Stefánsson, that they had two possibilities. Stefán Már said that the first one had rather destroyed legal matters. They felt that it was a better way to test it before we brought this government on the alert, that we were testing for the joint EEA committee which one of us really was on the market, and if we had been able to negotiate it in advance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u212	V.E.G. President. No one has questioned whether the council can reject the induction. These regulations and measures are of no value to Iceland unless approved at the General Assembly. There is a tremendous security valve in this European partnership. Of course, comments, requests for annuity or change are expected to appear in the early stages of the preparatory and preparatory cases and to be handled on the part of the joint EEA committee. Once this has been done together with the EEA committee, there is a commitment that we can certainly stop now. There may be consequences in both this area of the EEA agreement and in the overall contract state that I cannot go into now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The question, however, is: In this case, do we have reason to resort to this emergency? My answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u213	The President's still on trial at what. Councilmen showing respect for the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u214	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. A senator of the same questions I've asked at least two different steps. Councilmen who were opposed to the case, but it has to do with this administrative notice and the chances that a cable will be built. Now it seems in the air that by agreeing with this case, the chances of a cable being laid, something I don't see by reading the case itself, are higher. The original story, when this case first came into play in a general discussion, was that it forced us to lay a cable, that the EU was telling us to lay a sea cable. They were quick to correct. Then came the story that it would increase the odds, and she's lived a little. When reading the case, and especially looking at this legal doubt that the medical committee has identified, I can see no better than that with the approval of this case, the formation of a sea cable would reduce or at least make the sea cable difficult. I conclude that in this case, without a warning, this meant a government-registered doubt, which, in fact, I do not believe myself. I think this power supply is very clear and in a limited field of reading the Regulation, and I don't give anything to it that the ACER has some unusual effect on the ESA, so it's against the two supporting systems. You want to keep your experts calm and anyone who worries that we're breaking a constitution, and I respect that. But the constitutiond doubt that exists, before it comes to the court, must come back if there is a suggestion to lay a cable that I would think would make the sea cable difficult, there's an extra step that would have to go through. This would make the discussion much more difficult and longer than if such proposals were made today because there are naturally no administrative problems in laying sea cables today. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to ask you what. A senator how he feels about this diagnosis because I especially appreciate his opinion as a sponsor of the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u215	While talks are being given at the Hall of Congress, the president asks members of the front hall to keep silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u216	Mr. President. I share that opinion. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson that nothing in the energy package itself puts on our shoulders some duties in fixing a cable. There are rules to consider in case of a link between countries, but there are no obligations to establish such a connection. I think it should be pretty clear. I can agree with what. A senator says that with the uniform this case has been chosen here, including with clear regulations that the presence of the Generals and consent need to be provided for sea cables, be tried, and make such a decision not by means of a simple government permit but by the presence of the General Assembly. In fact, I think we have to bear in mind that this kind of project would have to go through a number of complex licence procedures before coming, and it has now even decades of work to get permission to fix a road rat in the country. I think they're rather theoretical than real concern that it would be with some reasonable minister who could snap his finger and make a decision to fix a sea cable. To finish my case at that point, I'll share that opinion with you. Hrafn The Gunnarsson that the case will be adopted in the current costume and in view of the discussion that has taken place here at the council and, indeed, in general, in the community as a whole, has further reduced the likelihood that the cable will be laid over the next few years. [[The president calls.]] I'll say this in advance that what happens in an unscrupulous future will only be revealed, but it will always be a conscious and balanced decision, after a legal and administrative examination, that leads to a definitive conclusion on the fixation of an ocean cable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u217	A respectable president. See, it's this, this administrative opinion that has to come here if there's a suggestion to lay a cable. Many people I speak to, on the Internet good and elsewhere, do not trust the Allied to make the right decision. I understand this lack of trust because the Council has made bad decisions in the past, once or twice. But it must be a administrative subject, if it is necessary to add a sea cable, if the constitution is to be activated by these articles, 7,◯9. A respectable president. Then there must be a question. If it comes to laying a cable, the current constitution will have some 7,◯9. par. in the Regulation, to return when applying the same articles. [[The president calls.]] It must be part of a administrative assessment when a cable is laid, unlike the event today without the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u218	V.E.G. President. I can say with what. Senator, I think you're right. If we assume that at some point in the coming years, there are practical ideas about the fixing of a sea cable to Iceland, after the events now, and for the legal reasons both in the induction principle and in the declarations made, that the legal basis of the trial must be reviewed in this case. They must be conducted in a controlled, balanced manner. A senator is here. Government assessments have been made on the basis of current criteria, and the reports that follow have given some answers in this regard. [[The president calls.]] But we're actually promising to do it again, go back, take another round in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u219	A respectable president. I'd like to come up and ask for the president to include it from the minister we are appropriate, whether in due time. Minister of Foreign Affairs or Supreme Minister. An industrial minister who kind of forms a warning, since it caught my attention earlier in answer to that question. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargie, to question why. paritaprevir Ólafur Is remnant Ísleifsson to be referred to, if I correctly understood, that the prime minister's announcement to the U.S. Department's Office of State has been made on the home page of March 22, 2018. It would be fine if it were. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson, I think I've asked for the word, corrected it, for I just don't believe that it's the Great Guard who's supposed to be the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u220	Mr. President. Of course, it is also more preordained by the clear wording of the in induction principle, which is fundamental, since the points are the same as mentioned in the press release as in the declaration given to the joint EEA committee. It is the worded and corrected in the induction protocol, which is being introduced precisely by the point referred to. I was trying to look it up in the papers where it is exactly. But the alarm is very clear on this, and I don't think there's anything to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u221	A respectable president. I would like to quote the proposal's report at the end of chapter 2, as it seems to me, just before chapter 3, by permission of the president: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced in Icelandic correctly but under legal notice that the infrastructure that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets will not be built or estimated unless the exception of a review of the law on the basis of the Regulation and the implementation of its cross-border laws will be carried out only after this review. It will also be considered even further and specifically at the Generals field whether its introduction in these circumstances harmonizes with the Icelandic constitution. It is now that in order to guide a minister in a job when we agree to the Senate arrangement at the General Assembly. I have personally participated in a group of people who worked after a Senate resolution, and the guidance in that group was according to a report. The same here. Thus, the premonition referred to in a paper with a synonym is the one that must be valid. [[The president calls.]] It is the authority that the General gives the minister, and he is obliged to follow the guidance given there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u222	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm surprised at what was presented in the case. A member of Parliament and the chairman of the Independence Party, Ármannsson, son of Aargian, said that the legal person is no more than a press release or a paper in a paper. The premonition does not appear in the text of the synopsis. However, it was mentioned in a report that stated that the issue of Regulation, No. 713, will be introduced legally but legally. Where is he? This reveals that the case of the case is more legal than you ever imagined. Of course, assessment of the national legal value of this seemingly nonexistent legal advance must be made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u223	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that it's okay. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's workgroups, but it does not make me very comfortable with this particular point that he was in the early stages of a working group. It simply says, by permission of the President: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced in Icelandic just in the legal way... Let us say that the discussion will be finished with this speech, that the vote and interpretation proposal will be adopted in a conventional way. Where is the legal guardian? What does it sound like, and what is the hold on it? I'm sure it's not in this report at the State Department website.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u224	V.E.G. President. The points are clear. When it comes to induction in a traditional way - how does it happen? As a result, a council proposal is approved on the removal of administrative orders. This will be published on behalf of Ministers on the case, and there will be the leader who has been put in writing with the Parliamentary decree and in declarations to our fellow EU cohesion countries as a court order, and in accordance with the Regulation, it will be in Article 3. ... witha completeword from the synopsis of the synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u225	V.E.G. President. It's interesting that it's playing like this now. The Conspiracy proposal here for discussion is merely a synopsis proposal, i.e. A recommendation directed by the Council to the Minister. It doesn't have legal value. She's an explanation, at best, afterwards. It directs them to the point that something is done. But this legal agent is going to be put forward. paritaprevir He's a Birgir's Ármannsson's farm. I think it is very important now that the members of the council take him in and can take his stand, and he is ousted of of it so that we can take a stand on what it is and whether he is of the nature of his efforts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u226	Mr. President. I make it clear that here, members of Congress come under the pretext that they will discuss the President's conference board, but neither will they be doing so in a material discussion that has been under consideration. I comment on the fact that a president will conduct a meeting administration in a manner that allows humans to have a material discussion under the pretext that a meeting manager should be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u227	The president encourages you. Councilmen to make good use of a traditional conversation tradition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u228	A respectable president. The original requirement for what? The senator was coming here to explain this warning. He came to this house because the defence was never written down. Now we've got two o'clock. Parliaments in opposing categories, very different categories, which agree on this matter. Ármannsson I'm not used to being on the same team as he is in the President's conference board, I must say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u229	It's just fun.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u230	It's a good change. But I've been told where to find this warning. Therefore, there is no need for a secretary to come to a house for this reason. In case of a moment. I don't think it's a reason for me to call the minister because it's already written in black in the paper of the synopsis who's going to be, for word's sake. And I'd like to mention it, because of it. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson went into the legal sense of Congress, that I am very aware of how they work. This is a Senate resolution, and the paper has a legal explanation, an explanation of its source, on what basis is the source of the source given in the main legal body of the Council's Syllabary proposal for the Minister. [[The president calls.]] That should be perfectly clear. No matter what. I don't think the senators are going to let this one go. If they're going to charge the highest. A minister on this they just have to say out loud, that they did not trust the minister to read aloud or write down or ◯pyr/pasteère to what is said in the motion itself. [[The president calls.]] The material is included in the suggestion. There's no reason to call a minister to explain this particular subject, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u231	Mr. President. The new information presented in this discussion makes it necessary that the discussion will simply be postponed while the necessary information on this subject is obtained. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Here is a big issue that has caused much turmoil in Icelandic society. Senators sitting here laughing didn't notice. Of course, it is absolutely necessary, Mr. President, to make a thorough explanation of the national value of this warning, which is unclear whether it is or not and now is said to be part of some law. That's at least complete minimum before the discussion continues that this Regulation, or that it, will be shown to members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u232	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason insists that we speak here for President's conference board, but that's exactly what we're doing. A meeting is being conducted and the evidence available is called for. I think it's only natural that it's done in this field. What else would be better? I think it's a good thing that these notices are in place and that we can take sides with him because, as I read this, we are spoken of as bringing in these regulations in conventional ways into Icelandic rights, which will be made legal notice. What, though, is the legal requirement? He thinks? And who will decide whether he will stay?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u233	A respectable president. I'd like to start by mentioning one thing. The legal warnings here made out of the comments that came from one scholar for this matter are on the one side of the synonym and the bills that lie by. Work committee from the highest. Ministers for e.g. about a cable. That's totally in the way. The legal premise referred to stands in the synonym that we are dealing with. Of course, he will be taken up directly in regulations when it comes. But there will never be a regulation on induction before we remove control arrangements. That's how the council works, no matter what EU situation we're working on. This is clearly stated in the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Convention on the grounds that no cross-border infrastructure is now available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including Regulation 713, is therefore not relevant and does not have a realistic relevance to the country. [[The president calls.]] It is this expression that will be applied directly to the regulations that, of course, come into play after we accept it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u234	Mr. President. In short, the Conventional Recontraction proposal presented here is to introduce the third energy package and also Regulation 713, which has been discussed extensively. As the report indicates, it will be legally introduced on a legal basis to specific items that we are calling for. Where is the legal guardian? Where is he? I can't help but see that if we bring in some regulations from the European Union, we'll bring them in. That's when they're in Icelandic. There's no way. Either the warning is made on time or not. I'm calling for further explanations on this legal notice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u235	A respectable president. I'd like to be very encouraging to the top. In part, the president of this matter will be explained. This is a topic under discussion, including The National Affairs Committee, where the experts in attendance, lawyers, were asked about the legal advance. Then it became clear that, first of all, they had not seen them; they had, of course, seen this report and the discussion, but they had not seen legal warnings; and they pointed out that it was a key that if they should keep, if this was to be passed safely, the legal warnings would need to be of no value, that the law would not be valid. However, this points to the fact that the legal defenses are just some general word in a report and some vague statement in a foreign country where they admit that Iceland is an island.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u236	A respectable president. I think it would be wise if a president could try to explain the matter in some way. First of all, it is extremely weak that this so - called company agent is in the Senate arrangement. You wonder why he is not involved in the legal bills that are laid before a job station, which, of course, is much stronger. [[Up front.]] We must bear in mind that Congress protocols are not as good and/or as valid as law, especially because we have received, 2015 I think it was, a position for the State Department of State, which states that the government is not bound to anything of the Congress made by other governments. If there were to be a government switch before the Supreme Court. A minister who has promised to bring this advance might bring him in, but the government that would not. That's why it's much better to get into the law. Consumption proposals have no value for those who accept them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u237	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to discuss, not material things under these circumstances, but primarily the chairmanship of the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u238	A respectable president. I don't know what to talk about. It is clear that when we discuss the consequences of the implementation of a government plan, he will lead ahead of the ensuing order that follows. What it says will be made up of a synonym that we are about to agree with. And then, of course, the highest. Minister bound by Generalis's resolution. What confidence do you have in the Generals if you believe the Minister is not tied up by the general decision under this heading? That may be clear, first of all. A senator noted that, of course, the induction principle will not take effect until it has arrived, after we have lifted a governmental notice. It's something else that wouldn't be good. It's never done here. And why doesn't she stand in the council arrangement? was also asked. Are we putting regulations in the council arrangement now? I don't know exactly where it would lead us. As to what scholars and middle - class leaders have been talking about, other scholars have said: These legal warnings have made a clear and important point to what we are doing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u239	A respectable president. I reiterate my request to the President to interrupt this hearing so that we can get a proper explanation for this. Here, for example. How wrong are the claims that scholars have said that these warnings appear as they appear in some form of paper to solve these issues? In fact, it became clear that they had not seen warnings but that they had to be that they ensured that the law would be of no value unless certain conditions were fulfilled, they would not take effect in the meantime. Now, too, we can see what another expert, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, meant when he spoke of the fact that these watchmen were only for home bridges. It is likely also clear what the former chairman of the Independence Party and prime minister meant when he spoke of praiseworthy deception. I agree with him about the archdeceiver part, but I do not consider these deceptions to be praiseworthy and therefore encouraging. A president to help us get an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u240	Mr. President. We come back and forth to the main subject of this matter, which is simply that we cannot implement the rules of the energy package in this country, but at the same time say that some of its regulations or regulations that are contained in the package are not relevant in this country. We bring in the rules, and then we say, "We're not gonna use this thing here. This won't take effect here. This isn't working. Of course, it's just an domestic bridge and nothing else. Premiers like that have no real value. It's a new kind of illusion. I've been looking for Mr. President to get a minister or specialist to explain this better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u241	V.E.G. President. I've sat here and listened to people talk about the President's conference board and repeatedly called for a president to give us the opportunity to see these people who are supposed to exist, but there is not yet a place where they came out of speech. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, said that it was nothing more than a declaration. In fact, when the statement is stated in EFTA in one way or another, the statement is too complicated by the Icelandic government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u242	What's the difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u243	Right, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u244	Well, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u245	This needs to be very clear, so we'd need to see if there's a difference. Can we see some document that has a legal value? That's why I'm asking the president in part that we'll see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u246	The president sees no evidence that more people would like to talk about the President's meeting board at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u247	A respectable president. I was beginning to despair that I would have to go up to the President's conference board to find out. We'll talk about the second time we've had a synonym to introduce the third energy package here in the country. In the beginning, I'd like to thank the Foreign Affairs Committee for an extremely careful job on the case. I must admit that I myself have been sick of the long discussion that I have been discussing because I have not, although I have sought a great deal of explanation about it, understood the massive discrepancies that have been in progress, and the claims that have been made, both in this room and in the public discussion, about the third energy package, and the claims are basically applied. What matters most when we consider this matter is how the third energy package is introduced here. All the experts involved in the case, all the discussions that have taken place in the public field, and in this room have provided the most clear evidence to show that the tremendous claims that have been made concerning the alleged effects of this energy package are unattainable. It is quite clear that the third energy package does not affect whether, how or for what we use our energy resources, it is absolutely clear, it will in no way address the full resources of our energy resources use. Also, the third pack of energy has no effect on whether a cable is going to be laid here or not. No matter what the Parliament may think of such a cable, he has nothing to do with the third energy package. It will not change, reduce, or increase the likelihood of sea cable fixation, much less, the implementation of the third energy package has some impact on the possession of national energy companies, our common energy companies owned today by public authorities. He doesn't change anything about it. There is no obligation to sell property or to change their ownership of land induction, no charge on the holding of landnets, and so on, let alone a commitment of some kind to the privatization of these enterprises. It is also good to bear in mind that, as we discuss this decision, when we're inculcating the administrative warnings in line with our commitments in the EEA Convention, when we're in line with our alliances in the EEA's territory on whether and by what way these measures should be introduced, it's in the field where we all have the opportunity to present our views, to give our reasons and give solid support to the reasons why individual regulations are not in this country and how it should be possible for them to do so. This is clear from the detailed discussion that has been under way over several years, since it should be kept in mind that the matter has been in the treatment of the council for at least Six, seven years in a row, that all the opportunities to make such remarks or modifications were given in the treatment of the Government of the High Priests and Self - Opportunity in 2013-2016, under the president of the Central Party, why. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. Despite the repeated arrival of the Parliament and its members to the case at that point, there was no reason to comment on the recording of the third energy package in the EEA Convention. Now we have the opportunity to validate those decisions. In spite of this, despite all the evidence that concern has been shown by men about the alleged supply of energy resources, allegedly requiring the correction of a cable, alleged claims of the personalisation of energy companies - despite the strict rejection of all of this by reason, opposers of the third energy package suggest that we reject the problem and refer it back to the joint EEA committee, which was the first time for the 25-year history of the EEA Treaty that we dealt with such a deliberation. They certainly are. It's an emergency inhibitor that we have the right to apply in the EEA partnership but with the inquiries to which it leads us. Of course, on the day we stopped bringing in the joint regulations of the EEA market, we're going to reassemble our important cooperation. For this reason, there has been strong evidence from well - respected experts in this regard. I wondered, " What way are the senators taking?'" When a case is stirred up with such an incomprehensible fear - control as the case has been. There is no stone stone in support of the issue. Each of the main arguments on the matter has been rejected with compelling logic until the use of trained experts. However, do not listen and continue to stir the pot and try to cause fear of the expected effects of this energy package, which is not found anywhere in the Regulation and in the text of the matter being discussed here. This is an incredibly irresponsible discussion. It must also be remembered that it contains some responsibility, for much of the language used has been used repeatedly. The members of the Independence Party in their doubts about the alleged state-of-the-art enterprise in the European Union, despite the unwillingness of the same party to change anything there, with the necessary change of the constitution to provide definitively with the power supply that is certainly the EEA community and that has long been discussed in this room. But this discussion is irresponsible. This is direct fear propaganda. That's a completely meaningless argument. In my mind, there is a lawsuit like this not designed to increase confidence in this institution. It is strongly suggested that there is little trust in the Council, that we cannot be trusted to make such decisions. I think that's a very serious thing to do. People should be able to trust that what is said here is true and true, that the claims presented here for the nation are based on sound evidence. Hence, it is not to be spread in this matter. Rather, opposers have not hesitated to make a complete statement of inconsistencies, despite repeatedly reviewing the same statements in the hall over and over and over in the hall as by experts who have been introduced to the panels. This brings to mind what is really following in the face of opposers. I wonder if it's the same as watching for the opponents of Norway who have been masked by it, the Norwegian Central Party, that they want out of the EEA community? It's the official policy of that class. It would be nice then to hear from members of the Central Party whether this is the policy of the Central Party here. All the other reasons in this case have been transferred directly from Norway, which has a major deviation from a joint European energy market in comparison to us that Norway is linked to a joint European energy market, not present. Does the Central Party want the EEA community working together, the huge international deal, the common market area in Europe that has made a big difference for the Icelandic nation in the past 25 years, which has induced economic growth, large-growing standard of living, large-scale regularity, competitive right, consumer protection, and so on? You cannot express how important the contract has been for the public and for the Icelandic company. What a sense of irresponsibility it is to put them at risk or to upset them with such an incomprehensible statement! If we were to base the rejection of this case on such a case in fact, we would be working against Icelandic interests first. This, however, is the world's sad discussion of growing isolationism, not just in this country but around the world, in Europe. Of course, the Bgret speech has strong symptoms for this one. The same can be said of American toll wars as did China under President Trumpur of the United States, and so on. I'm sorry, but this may give us reasons to discuss the value of international exchange for a small nation like us. We are fully dependent on our marketed bioavailability on the quality of living and living at the common market in the EEA. That's where we get the largest part of our import. That's where we're moving the largest item of our export and services. The standard of living here would be far less effective if this important business relationship and business agreement were not to be used. I'm sorry about this when you look at the constant use of terms like a prowess, that we're independent and free people, and that by contracts like the EEA deal, we're in some way giving up our freedom or our sovereignty. In this context, it is worth remembering that in our independence campaign as a nation, one of the main arguments of our leaders was to break up our country's isolation so that we could personally direct our dealings with other nations, we could use our sovereignty, and we could gain freedom of business with other nations. There, leaders with a farsighted and courageous view of the world as a sovereign, free and strong nation, who would not be afraid to use their sovereignty by treaties with other nations, even though at such treaties, they eventually met a contract like the EEA Treaty, where we certainly choose to hand over the sovereignty to promote and trust our business relationships. It's the cornerstone of the EEA Convention. We have built with him a common inner market of 500 million people where we can do business with goods and services, where we ourselves can go to work, and the people of the same territory, as if we were at home, where the same rules were valid for all of us, where there would not be discrimination on the basis of ethnic background. Key elements to the success of developing a common European economy over the past 25 years are just the quality that the same rules apply everywhere. This, of course, requires that we make a commitment to film them once they have been molded and combined. That is true in this case. In recent years, we have had every opportunity to shape their progress. While we had opportunity, we did not make comments to this arrangement. Now it's time for the moment where we have to fulfill our commitments and that we're to tear to an emergency inhibitor, get ourselves into some scandalous mission that we don't know where the end is. I think we should keep that in mind when we discuss this matter, and I think we should keep that in mind when we vote on this matter. Its main importance is that if we were not to accept the recording, if we were to use the denial power with as little reasoning as we have been brought into the matter of applying the emergency inhibitor right now. We will use such an emergency only if we are in extreme need unless our interests are actually covered. It has repeatedly been shown by the most skilled experts that this is not the case. Again, a stone does not stand upon a stone in the case of opposers, and I certainly hope we will succeed here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u248	V.E.G. President. An excellent discourse has been given here. The thought that now is the right time to reevaluate the matter, not because we should have done it before, but because the time is right now. That's to get on our record. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator's time is now? I'd like to argue that he is now because I'm afraid that otherwise we'll be told that we haven't done things right, now it's time to look at things, maybe for the last time, if it's been right for all this induction process that's taken quite many years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u249	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer is no. I don't think that's the date now. At this point in the induction process, we are talking about a total emergency inhibitor if we felt strongly and convincingly that by means of the induction, we were going seriously on our rights. And there has been no evidence in this case, not a single one. The claims that have repeatedly been made that in this case, there is some sort of exponent to our custody of our resources completely rejected. There isn't a stone on a stone. That this has any effect on our chances or obligation to place a cable here is completely rejected. A stone does not exist in that this has any effect on our ownership of energy companies or duties or commitments in order to privatize or otherwise. A stone does not stand over a stone in that cause. We will not use an emergency unless there are good reasons, but we know that this can lead us to a failure, since we could even end up with the EEA deal in total agitation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u250	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer, but we're not turning anything down. You can use the word that there is some kind of emergency... because this is a very serious matter. I don't think those who want to look at it at all have fear. It's not the people who've claimed we're upset with the EEA deal and no one wants to work with us, that we're isolationists, etc. I ask, "What kind of fear propaganda is this? " A senator believes that we want to reevaluate the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u251	President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. That's exactly what we're talking about if we refuse to enter. Then we're returning the case to the European Commission joint at the beginning. It means legally that the energy package will not be recorded in the EEA Convention, north-side, and Liechtenstein will need to be restored to negotiate the situation again with the European Union. It's rejection, it's the denial authority, the emergency control mentioned here repeatedly. At the same time, it is important to keep in mind international relations and our credibility in international partnerships that one of the main features of Europe's cohesion is that claims on rich interests of individual countries are heard when strong and convincing evidence is given. Of course, the same is true of our cooperation with, e.g. Norwegians who have already lifted administrative notice and agreed to take up the energy package and have a very high and rich interest in business with a joint European electricity market. We do not go back to them and say, " We'll just turn it off. ' [[The president calls.]] This may not really matter to us, but we still decide to reject it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u252	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. To me, it was remarkable to listen to what happened. A senator talks so much about the EEA deal. That's what happened. A senator to hear that he was actually just another way. A contract is a contract, and there is a law that if there is a conflict, it can be submitted to a special committee called the Joint EEA Committee, which will then be expected to be an adequate solution. Sounds like it. A senator that he is so terribly afraid of it, that it has never been done for 25 years, etc. It is as if this is the whole European Union side, i.e. The European Union is responsible for this. We are involved in this contract, so we have our rights in these matters. I'm a little surprised at what kind of thing it is. A senator puts it up and just wants to ask him, "What is he afraid of? Is he afraid it's gonna be cold-collar, the deal's gonna upset, and so on. Because we're going on a legal route that's in the contract? [[The president calls.]] I don't understand the connection between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u253	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not afraid of that career. It is an emergency inhibitor we have, and it can use with full rights if we believe it is absolutely necessary. It is proper to keep in mind that our own legal career, which we have to influence, put our viewpoints in motion and protect our interests, is in the early stages of the matter. It also gives the council full opportunity to present their views with regard to the foreign - language committee and the professional committees, as was done in this case. There was an agreement at the time that there was no basis for taking up the third energy package in the EEA Convention. In doing so, we were actually giving notice in this regard. This legal route is certainly an emergency, but it is only if there has been some evidence that we have overlooked something amazing in the induction process of this case. The evidence has not been made. When there is no evidence, we do not use such an emergency in some trio.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u254	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't agree with what. There's a senator who says he's in some bridal, so there's a lot to it. The people are opposed to this. Supporters of the political parties who support this work are opposed. This ain't no bridal. It's a big deal to take care of, e.g. ... whethertheseprecautions are holding their heads. The government claims they believe, but it cannot claim it or assert that it will. It hasn't been tested. That is why it is far wiser to take the legal course of 102 C.E. in the EEA Convention, which is this unequivocally effective tool that we can take in such a position. Hv. A senator also became informed about the access of the independent party and the forwarding party to this matter. [[The president calls.]] The first problem was, not to the very decision taken by Iceland's 2009 Commission of England, in the long administration of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u255	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator answers back to his second. The senator referred to the polls to the people's opposition. The more people have studied the matter, the less their opposition is - and those who have studied what is wise according to their main supporters. It may be worth considering, when such a lot of nonsense has been spread about one matter, as it is here, since all this time has gone into refuting unfounded statements that have been lived - and in fact, the job is a special money page on it, and all the supporters of the case have immediately been thrown out of the way for an effort to take the argument. There's nothing to be afraid of in this matter. We should never be afraid to use our rights. We're always supposed to fight very hard for our goods in the introduction and recording of the EEA Convention. We did in this case. [[The president calls.]] That time passed. Now the time has come to end the matter, and nothing new has been made to allow it to go on and on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u256	A respectable president. I'd like to mention two things. The Senator was here reviewing all the details regarding the control of resources and personal development, and things that have been dislodged. During discussions, I have observed that all that remains is the career of power. When you look at and read through the regulations and directives, I find only one conclusion, that this power supply is about the rules of the transponder cable. Period. Nothing in this country, nothing in the United Kingdom. The power market is about ESA access to ground-of-border structures. Done. Nothing in between. That would be very normal, since the British, if the cables are placed in their hands, would want something to say. He comes to them from another country. We cannot control a cable that reaches another border alone, and they do not control a cable that reaches from them to us. I want to ask you why. A senator whether this is not a common understanding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u257	Mr. President. I just agree with what. That's what a senator does. I don't see anything else available to ACER sources, which are then carried out by ESA in our case if there is a situation where the energy institutions of the relevant countries do not agree on the business that applies to the cross-border transport sector. We realized that there is always power and power of agreement to begin with. If this were to happen, ESA would be intended to cut a knot. I find a little dramatic in this discussion to be acquitted and holy to be spoken of as being the value of warning that such a rule does not apply in the absence of the transboundary ministries. I don't think it takes much notice. It is rather obvious that the rules regarding cross-border transport can't have much value if there's no such structure and it's absolutely up to our custody to build it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u258	A respectable president. That's a little bit of the power industry. Nothing about domestic matters, nothing, just the rules of sea cables between countries. All we can do after an argument with the other Agency in the other country for six months and nothing goes on is to be determined who is right or if both institutions ask for help and say, "We can't do this, we'll get a decision on this. They may even ask for another six months in order to reach their conclusions before ESA or ACER. The other thing I wanted to mention was that I have a definite parallel to that emergency. It's a legal way, and it's incredibly simple and predictable, according to some say. But that's what the British also said about the Biffit Code. It was highly predictable and easy to resort to it, and the arrangement was not a matter of going out and getting much better contracts thereafter. No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u259	Mr. President. It's an excellent analogy for a dog. Senator. You see, the British set out on a road to Bfenit, which they did not know where to end, and they were in the first place primarily to an inside bridge in the British conservative class. Never was it expected that the British would actually agree to leave the European Union. It is one of the greatest scandals the British nation has ever made, and it is not yet clear where it ends. But it is quite clear from the weak status of the pound and the escape of companies from the UK that it has seriously damaged the economy and does not provide the end of this trend. It would be more honest for opposers of this case to say so plainly if it is really so that they are tired of working together on the European Economic Area and want out of it. Then, too, let us see what that means for the nation's economic and economic situation. [[Taken out on: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u260	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his speech. I would say that he spoke of this as a tiresome saying. I don't think there's a filibuster here. As far as I know, there are probably still about 20 members of Congress, on the contrary, who have placed themselves on the rosary, and many have not spoken up before. I don't know any better than we're just discussing this. Regarding this emergency and the waste mission, there are actually two ways we're going here and which would be normal. Is there any less scandalous missions to put in advance or to get a statement from commissars in Brussels or Europe that this is not valid, which is exactly the same as we would do if we put it before the joint EEA committee? We're just having a decision that's how we like things, i.e. about these infrastructures across the border. We are trying to choose a way out of what we can agree on. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he knows how to prevent such induction and whether he thought it was possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u261	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. For the discussion of the warning, this one is quite clear for many reasons. We have a mutual declaration that this common order of the European Union's joint energy market is not relevant, while not available to distribute cross-border transport systems, as is the situation here. It's a common understanding of the party. At the same time, we are included in the council a law bill that allows for an entourage like a sea cable to be built here only with the approval of the Generals. That is a very clear legal arrangement. It takes a posetive approval of the Generals to put a cable in here. I don't think there's anything clearer in front of you. And I have full faith that the judge will think, for there is obviously no way to force us to adjust the string. This requires the approval of the Generals. Besides, I just think it's silly to think that people really think that someone can force us to put up with such a cable with all the passes that have to be taken care of here within the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u262	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I understand them as saying that a senator does not know the premonition of actions and whether they have thought or not. This joint resolution binds the political but not the members who will work under the contract or have access to it, i.e. hospital or individual. The declaration given is political and will not be legal in advance. This legal bill mentioned by the senator is certainly on tables, but it has not been approved and if we consent to this induction, these types of actions will be accepted. I believe that chronological order is wrong. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree that the order of time could be different in order to hold things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u263	A respectable president. We have made many warnings, usually temporary notice, during the introduction to the EEA Convention and they have certainly held. But in later stages, e.g. when we have been expanding the joint labour market of the region, have frequently been made a warning or given temporary release, we have been given two, three years for induction. We have irreversibly separated ourselves from certain aspects of the EEA area where we have reasoned that they are not relevant here on land. But in this case, we will not be overlooked because we are not connected to the European Union's joint energy market and will only be connected if we decide to connect with it. On the basis of all experts, it has been clear that such a decision will never be made any different than the decision we make. The more clear and stronger the warning cannot be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u264	A respectable president. We're going here a lot. We've discussed the rejection of the third energy package leading to political uncertainty, not just legal, but political uncertainty. As far as I know, we're always in political uncertainty. Is that not simply the nature of international witnessing? It has been discussed in the discussion how useful the declarations of the joint EEA Commission and the head of energy on the warning of those who are being introduced by the third energy package are because they are political binding. Yes, political binding; saying: If faced with warnings, they will have to deal with the consequences. I can't see that there's a great guarantee. There's a situation where the State Department of State calls for a report on Iceland's interests on the case from a foreign specialist who has long worked on behalf of another state who has already accepted the induction of the third energy package, performed as president of the EFTA Court, was in court for 22 years. So I testify, by the permission of the president, in the words of Styrmir Gunnarsson the son of... It is far gone, when the Islozk State Department calls for threats abroad as to what might happen to the rejection of the Allied Energy Package 3. I'll bet you that since the establishment of republics in Iceland it's never happened before. What interests are being cared for by such practices? It will be interesting to see if any members of the General Assembly of Iceland see the reason to comment on this kind of work. Can anyone think that such an opinion would have said something other than what it says? Can anyone think that the person in question can be given an unsatisfactory view?●! Another legal opinion that covered the induction of the third energy package did not provide sufficient information on how to negotiate for a restricted access to the package unless it was stated that it had never been tried before, so there was uncertainty about the situation. I would have liked to see that question answered better. The EEA has developed more and more in terms of the EFTA countries having little control over their own interests. More intense and more powerful demands are being made to be involved in the internal markets. The primary market has many advantages, but over the years there has been a growing number of flaws. The situation is now that we are not enough to comply with EU regulations but should direct us to follow the commands of the European Union. Thus, the two support system applies only in word but not on table. I wondered how far the European Union could go before members of the greater part of this matter would consider the interests involved in the internal market less than the benefits of implementing a more comprehensive and more regular work of the Union. I believe their presentation suggests that participation in internal markets is really so important that such interests are not really meant to be held out when members of the Parliament reflect on the induction of EU types. In fact, as we meditate on the introduction to the EEA, we need to consider whether things have gone too far. If we do, we just have to say stop. Our interests because of the ability to control our own energy are a matter of the heart. As the nation entered the EEA community, the general public was deeply concerned about the impact of the cooperation on national resources. They were concerned at that time about the effect of cooperation on our management of ocean resources. At that time, the electricity production of my people was out of the question, and Icelands thought that such cooperation might involve involvement in the EEA of domestic energy production. It doesn't matter if that was part of the contract from the beginning. Since the people did not think so, they did not have a chance to take a stand for the matter. Since then, the world's energy crisis has increased, while energy production in Iceland has increased. It is clear that in part, the Icelandic nation opposes the foreign authorities'involvement in national energy issues. No matter what warnings we will face, the day will come when the European Union demands that we take an active part in solving European energy problems. We have to negotiate that Iceland's energy issues are outside the EEA community. Therefore, we should not put off the uncertainty involved in such discussions. Rather, we should immediately begin our work. Of course, it would have been a wish to agree on notation at the time of the joint EEA committee in 2014 under the administration of prime minister, why. paritaprevir And the president of the Central Party, Sigmund David Gunollon and the case of the then foreign minister, why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son. Sadly, though, this was not done. If there is a common understanding between the joint EEA committee and the head of the EU energy sector and the secretary of state that the national law of the third energy package on access to a floating cable must meet our understanding if we wish to negotiate that Iceland's energy is out of cooperation. How good is this partnership with us in the EEA if we don't even get a reserve from the introduction of types that have, by the way it seems, don't have any effect? I hope Iceland's involvement in the EEA is valuable to the other Member States. We're supposed to be able, under contract, to negotiate that we're not involved in the EEA partnership in the extent that it is possible to transport on e.g. Electricity between countries. At least Should we put such conversations to the test? In this regard, we are helped to discern the path to international communication. As far as I'm concerned, we should try to negotiate a further cut since the EEA's cooperation in transporting electricity between countries. My attitude is based on my conviction that the people's interests are best paid if the energy produced from the nation's resources is new to them. The main source of energy in the country, land induction, supports the induction of the third energy package, as well as support for the adaptation of the marine cables and the European Union has a sea cable to Iceland on a list of development projects. Foreign people have recently introduced plans to at least establish themselves in the past few months. in two wind plants with over 100 MW production capacity. Privates compete to purchase an activation rights in the rivers of the country and apply for an activation permit. Carl Baudenbacher himself noted in his opinion that a major reason why the European Union would view rejection of the third energy package is that energy issues have been very important in EU policy. Pointed him even. in a talk by the then European Energy Commissioner, Günther Oettinger, from May 6, 2014, where, by permission of the President, he stated that the European energy market is more important than ever. So it's clear where it's headed. Even though we're talking here about a third energy package not saying anything, it doesn't drive us to lay a cable -- it's absolutely true. But these warning men that are being talked about, and I'm going to refer here to our excellent son Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, who came with the opinion of a certain legal figure -- unfortunately, as often as it happens, these opinions are wrapped around a certain frame. It's not taken as a whole. Not all the matters of opinion that actually happen. We see we're looking at different things. We realize that an energy package has been created, using a pack of two. Now to generate a pack of three, an energy package of four is available on the table and will probably be introduced into Europe this year. Where, then, are we? Is it not our duty as a representative of the people at the General Assembly to view the general development of energy efforts in the European Union? Do we not really have to realize that Europe is in a very different place what is involved in the need for greener energy than we are here? While we can be happy with what we have in our green energy, it does not change the fact that the small island of Iceland will not be able to one of these markets and the requirement that I know will become ours. I also find it a bit quiet to talk about isolationists, popu lists, and I don't really know what they don't do, panic propaganda. Is this some kind of panic propaganda when you want to call for a test of a deal that we've been on for 25 years? Who's gonna think of standing here while we're at it? former senators and ministers, members of all groups in the community, call for us to look at the facts in general? They are against the induction of the third energy package, at least versus testing our contract to be granted an exception from having a head over us talking about our energy issues inside the European Union's quarters. It is often said that this pack of three is not doing anything. Despite what's being introduced here where ACER is coming in and we're about to do a lot of things about taking out the Power Institute and making it completely independent and freeing all the surveillance from the Icelandic Minister. No, there are others who need to look into the Icelandic Department of Energy and send it instructions on how to handle and deal with their situation. They're talking about consumer protection. I'm just saying, are there any consumers above their heads better than Icelandic consumers at the power market? What is it we need from the European Union and the EEA treaties on energy issues? Why is it talking forever? If there's some kind of panic propaganda, it's in people who say we're putting the EEA deal at risk by trying to see if it's the real deal or not. Is he two-sided, the highest. President, is he just one side? We just don't have anything to say about what we're talking about? It is remarkable to listen to how to put up with all kinds of things without taking a objective view of the matter. That even though we have a different vision, it's supposed to be pulling something out - politics, that's all that is political - to make opponents look like a bit of a fool. Try ten votes a day because a political opponent looks like an idiot. It only works in both directions, a respectable president. If something's silly, we're going to overlook the fact that we've had a very good relationship with our European economic contract, a very good relationship, for 25 years. We've seen how our economy has prospered through this contract. We have been able to bring our products into the EU's inner market. Still, we are not obliged to say: "Hello, we don't want to, and we can't control our own electricity resources. Why are they mixing the electricity into the common consumer market? Despite being warned by electricity? Yeah, you're hit on your fingers, and you're also totally out in a ditch when you're talking about it. Yes, electricity is defined as a warning. It's a matter of special nature. All have answered you, Sæland Goad, that we are under no obligation to lay a sea cable. Privates don't have anything to say about putting their product on the market because we're so sped that we both bake the cake and eat it all too. It also came to our speech of a fine guest sent by the Ministry of State, Carls Baudenbacher, that after this Bgret position developed, the European Union has moved much more aggressively into the European Union as to why they are not taking the Member States and those who even want to stand outside the internal market, such as Switzerland, he named Switzerland, no special silk gloves. He said: "It is getting worse to follow up on the contracts and to put Member States in line with what they are told to do. In fact, it is quite remarkable that Davíð Þór Björgvinsson was telling us on the Foreign Affairs Committee that this so - called legal agent, a government manager who is being swinging here, right, wouldn't be worth the paper. He'd only be showy to home bridges. It's pretty clear, and I'm quite aware that none of this will be tested, and none of it will be activated until we have placed the cable on the drawing table, which the third energy package doesn't tell us to park, and I never said. But this does not change the fact that activation of paragraphs 7 and 8 and 9. The third energy package will not be available until a cable has been laid. What? That is when we must test the governmental advance, not before. That's why I ask again, "Why in the world haven't we settled this matter before?" Why didn't we go to this job right away? Is there any excuse to say, "Hey, we didn't just bucket it? We just introduced an energy package one and two, and that's only because it's only ◯? Then we'll have to introduce this, because if we don't, we look stupid to the European Union or the EEA-- or what, to who? When we've made a mistake, as I think we've done by doing nothing unless we put a pack of energy into our contract, and we don't need to be part of an Icelandic energy market, and we don't have to take the energy issues over our heads into the contract. Whether it was because, I understand, land induction, all members of the Parliament agree that we should have Landic activation, the nation should have land activation, and we want to have our own energy policy clear. This does not alter the fact that if there is a situation, we're going to go through a natural absolpt to do so on our terms, not on the basis of the EEA or the European Union. I'd like to finally mention one thing that I thought was natural, very wise: it was already the highest. The minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, left no doubt about it just a year ago in this speaker's office, and with the permission of a president, I'm going to refer it directly, according to the words: ▪ So let us consider what we have to do on the inside market of Europe to be involved in electronic activities isolated in Iceland, Brussels. What do we have to do with talking to other EU countries electronic energy cases off the island of Iceland? Is it a matter of direct involvement in the inner market [...]? It is never a question of whether those who speak as I speak here are opposed to the EEA treaties and are grateful for the miracle we received by receiving free access to Europe's inner market. That's not what it's about. It's about the nation's energy issues. That's who we're talking about right now. It's about whether or not it's about the induction of the fourth energy package, the so-called winter package, whether it's gonna be the one we're going to try to negotiate. Or is it when the fifth package comes, the water? Is that what we are going to do? When is the right time, a respectable president, to take decisive action and show that we are in a two - sided contract in the European Economic Area? It works in both directions, that's pretty clear. I think this has turned out to be a good time. I just hope everyone is excited to ask me something. At least I'm excited to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u265	Mr. President. Now we've been listening to what. paritaprevir Sæland Happyand goes over a vision of this case, which is strongly based on denying literally all the claims of any scholar who has gone over the matter, acting as if these claims had no business at the platform, and even going so far as to let one particular scholar, Carl Baudenbacher, have in some way intended to lie on behalf of the state, which I find to be an idea. [[Up front.]] This fine scholar, Carl Baudenbacher, is a Swiss man, not from a country belonging to the EEA Convention. He was elected to the EFTA Court on behalf of Liechtenstein, and using the EFTA Court, Iceland, as well as other countries, where he sat for a very long time and has written 40 books of various kinds on legal matters. He even wrote. The book on how EFTA works and how these decisions are made. I don't think it's implied, by the way. The senator, that this scholar would in some way decide that this would be an ideal occasion for sacrificing his good name by lying to the committee of the Generals. I don't think that's right. I have to ask you what. A senator whether she really believes what she is saying, that this scholar would damage his reputation in this way. At least I think I'm sorry. It's ridiculous to think about it. I don't have time to review all the mistakes presented in the talk. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u266	You're always in trouble, Smári ones. Name the villas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u267	- I'm going over villas. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u268	Hv. There's been a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u269	Not anymore, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u270	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's the second time he's coming up against me, and both times he sees why I'm here, and I'm just in the bullshit, and he doesn't make sense the other way. In either case, he has mentioned one, so I'm going to give him a chance to answer it below and pick it up even if only I can answer it. He says I imply that men lie. It's completely out of the map. I quoted from Styrmir Gunnarsson, which points out that it is far too late to be above all doubt that man is not partial. In accordance with the nature of the case, I guess. A senator who can see it. I think he should look into things a little when he comes up with these bad words and puts words in my mouth or imagines that I'm thinking something that's completely out of cow and map. Hv. A senator speaks of scholars, but I specifically noted that they were asked for a specific purpose about certain matters of opinion, not put it in complete agreement, all of which were more and less characterised by the so - called legal, administrative advance. No one was asking them what our real position was, in their view, was in relation to the European Economic Area Convention. That's a big question I'd have thought worth asking, huh? Senator. I appreciate this cooperation, and I think a deal is a deal. I often feel like he's just no deal. This fine man you referred to said: " If we do not keep on walking by what we are told, there will be unforeseen consequences. What does that mean, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u271	Mr. President. I hit it hard. A senator not a single word in his mouth, but it's not necessary. I didn't mention a single fallacy, I spoke of facts. And if we're talking about facts, let's start with that the third energy package is not about any way that we somehow lose power over our internal systems. [[Up front.]] That's what they said. This was literally indicated in a talk given at the beginning. Senator. It's wrong that we lose control of our resources. We won't. That it will be part of, like cot. A senator said, about Iceland's internal issues in controlling internal energy resources is not the case either. I feel that there's a reason to be held on the basis of how many facts occurred. I didn't really hear anyone else's disorder but, in effect, determined that a few scholars were misled, and I thought it might be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u272	I don't know. Councilmen are required to use the proper comment and direct their case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u273	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for all these facts. I've never said that the third energy package linked us to one thing or anything, never in a speech or a publication. I've never said we're losing one thing or another. I've never demeaned scholars, either. A senator is suggesting. I said that they were only wanted to be viewed in a limited way. That's what I've said. I've been talking about in my speech how we should look overall, that we're here to generate a energy package based on an energy package, and we all know what the main objective is by bringing in this energy package. We know how the problem is with an electrical market in Europe, and we know well that there is a need to connect with us at some point. That's the vision I see in the future when we get all the energy packages ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u274	A respectable president. Hv. A senator talks with inspiration and insight into this matter, well. I made a note of her talk in which she suggested that foreign involvement in domestic energy was accompanied by the introduction of this package, which is not correct. I just want to share it in this discussion after the last answer. Hv. A senator asked: "Why didn't we take the warning earlier? After my review of this energy package and the administrative warnings made, they are made at exactly 7th, 8 and 9. in the sentence of the joint organisation and for the basis of cross-border structures only. It is the only authority that this agency has to issue, not within any country, just between countries. The only act of authority would be to give this institution a ruling authority on a cross-country between countries. This is natural in a sense because there are more than one country that is sharing. They are even given a very reasonable period of six months, and they can extend it up to 12 months, in order to solve the situation before they have to consult the Cooperative Organization. Of course, it is a partnership because it is a building to which more than one country arrives. It's all the power market. Perhaps that is why we did not take advantage of these warnings sooner because they are not relevant to domestic matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u275	A respectable president. I am fully aware of the origin of ACER and purpose. I also know what a third energy package is. But this is exactly what it is: Isn't it foreign to introduce the third energy package, i.e. if he takes over his own values because of all these administrative warnings? Don't you think it's foreign to me that we're going to have to take the Power Institute and make it totally independent from all the ministers? Is that not foreign intervention? Does that not interfere with foreign affairs when we receive directives and all kinds of regulations to implement? Is that not foreign intervention? What I've been trying to emphasize in my speech is a comprehensive assessment. I am well aware that ACER is designed to deal with the opinions of people who are in the common energy market. I realize that's the natural purpose. It's also very interesting, sir, that you're here to be giggle and moaning, and it's nice to have a bit of fun in the pontoon and get some joy. But there are foreign interventions all the way. What I'm saying right here and now, and I've put emphasis on it, is the basic food I feel I lack. This is the main objective of the induction of the energy package, which is where you're headed. We've always gone further, and all the scholars have said, we're always expanding our cooperation into this market. That is what every scholar said, and they know who attended this meeting. We are always getting closer to this market, seeing from the fact that we're not really in the water cables.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u276	A respectable president. There was no laughing or whispering about the whisk. A senator, far from clear. We're party to this deal because we agreed to be his party. We have constant adjustments, even in the process where the EU is creating the rules itself and then again when the case comes into the common field. It's not about us allowing foreign influences and foreign influences to dominate us, not at all. We choose to do this, and that's part of what we're doing here. We are deciding whether to submit to these rules or not. And when you look at the rules that have to do with just consumer protection, which involve the separation of production and distribution, which is very important to energy security, which is very important to many areas in Iceland, how we set up an energy program within each country, for Iceland - and we make that decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u277	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I am so glad that we have these legislation, what is involved in the energy of Icelanders, today. There's never been any doubt on my part. On the other hand, I'm looking to the future. It has often been camping for one night. I just wanted to look to the future knowing about a pack of four energy and a package of five, and I don't know how many of them are gonna be. When are we going to take a stand and test the EEA deal on our contract to deal with the deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u278	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the fine talk she gave just now. It addressed a number of interesting points that I find very helpful to ask. Early in 2018, or February 15, 2018, scholar Baumgart Baumgart spoke to the University of Akureyri. He concluded that, in fact, it was the European Union's legal obligation to land a sea cable in Iceland. What is noteworthy about this is that when this legal obligation has already been discussed by the EU, we will be trapped in this contract, not on our terms. That's what I want to ask you. About: A scarlet cord, shall it be laid? What does the senator think?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u279	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. I'm sorry, I wasn't in Akureyri in February 2018, and I can't express myself any further on that. But if a cable is laid, and probably on the basis of the third energy package, I feel that this is actually a matter of premeditation over legislation. I'm against the introduction of the third energy package and all other involvements of foreign bodies in Icelandic energy legislation. The content of the third energy package may not be important. It's that it exists, it's there. The National Parliament shall control energy, but not decide, depending on the EEA recommendations. That's why I want us to negotiate that the Icelanders' energy business is outside the EEA and if they leave, they don't want to work with us on that basis, we'll just have to meet that. But I'm against the third energy package because it involves the involvement of foreign parties in Icelandic energy law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u280	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. Now is the time. I think we agree that now is the time to put our notice on what is being done and to help the joint EEA Commission, that is, in spite of all the defenses brought into the contract, to direct matters there is a way to resolve differences. Angela Merkel has claimed that it is necessary to absorb pure energy in Europe. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator: What is the aim of bringing in all these packages? We know that Europe has 70% energy from environmental energy sources. Then I wondered, " Where are we going by bringing all these packages? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u281	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. You're right. A senator says, and it has been observed by scholars and fine visitors who have brought us home, that there is a shortage of green energy in Europe. What's going on over a head with these inductions in general, just here with us? A third energy package is one step towards the target that has long been put on European energy issues. We stand in front of a climate problem, as we know, and the fourth energy package, the so - called winter package, carries it where we are trying to link the green energy heat - free climate issues. It's only one direction to go, it's a common internal energy market in Europe. It's just that way, trying to make the best of it. It's Angela Merkel, I'd read it too, but I'm not quite there. But, personally, I still stand there feeling that we have been obliged to test the EEA contract and that it doesn't need to be tested as soon as the so-called government manager doesn't like or what comes out of it. They say it's nothing, just for a doll, but nothing will be settled in the end. There will always be courts that have the final record of how we have succeeded in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u282	A respectable president. I want to start by speaking only about political trust - and about this matter. There are contrasts between this matter, on the one hand from the Independence Party, the government, such as, but I look especially at the Independence Party, for I have only certain prejudices against the class that I know perfectly of myself. That is why I give much notice of everything he says and examine what comes from him to make sure that it is not just my prejudice that causes any concern that I automatically have from everything that comes from. But it's a Middle-class thing, too. I have similar prejudices there, and I am fully aware of them. That is why I must also examine everything from there to make sure that I do not just make a decision based on prejudice. When these two sides disagree, one side is different from the other, I can't easily believe that I agree with one of the different categories that I have established. That is why all I can do is read and study and look at criticism without having an idea of who brings it out. I simply see criticism and try to try to put it in the text of the energy package and find where the article is, where the text is, the source of criticism and anxiety. Where is the text that is concerned about the intervention of foreign parties? Nowhere. They won't find him. We've always chosen. We're in control of how we plan national energy issues. As discussed first in the discussion, all agree that this issue is no longer about the control of resources. Everyone agrees and backed up that language, that something needs to be taken personally. That's not the point. All that seems to remain in this discussion is the promotion of power. But before I go further into the office of authority, as I have done in a few answers: I believe the concern that people feel about this matter is completely justified. Perfectly. There are historical reasons for them, and there are contemporary reasons for having specific problems, such as geologic laws. But the real problem at the moment, so I can see: Is it in the right place? It's not the third energy pack, it's a national reserve. The country is to have all the interest of land activation, and some external government is to be placed over how it should be governed according to the current version of that bill. And if it doesn't ring any bells, like they've done in this bill, I don't know what. Because there's nothing in this package that's worrying me about what I see in the National Fund. But it is far harder to find some foreign enemy, some intervention of foreign parties - which also provokes a reaction that is often hard to check. The European Union is a very easy enemy in this regard. But we're dealing with this energy package, which is a total of eight documents, including four regulations, two directives and two of the Commission's decisions. They have a lot of things about natural gas, so Iceland can avoid them. And there are three regulations and one directives: Regulations on the cooperation of the Rapporteur of energy market, national-reguage network access directive, national-relevant regulations and the publication of data on electrical targets and finally a joint directive on the internal market for electricity and the breakdown of a directive. Never mind. I'm going to do a little story - hopefully I'll get some of it at least - about two things that are most important, i.e. On the one hand, the power supply and then possibly the improvement. I can see how far I can get with it. Regarding the power supply it is stated in the Regulation on the European Commission's cooperation with the energy market. The purpose of the Agency is to assist the monitoring authorities in each country with common rules for the internal market and for the implementation of electricity at the level of the EU, since this is the EU Regulation as it comes from this country - a follow-up project carried out in Member States and harmonises the activities of the surveillance organisations. It discusses in particular the types of action carried out by the Agency. It provides an opinion and recommendation in several aspects for the transport system manager, the administrative authority and the European Parliament and the Council and the Commission. These are opinions and suggestions, not binding or anything like that. But then she can make remarkable decisions. Here is the entitlement: specific cases can be decided - important words, specific ones. This particular incident can be found in paragraphs 7, 8, and 9. of that Regulation, i.e. That's exactly where you can find them. Seven. will be discussed with national monitoring authorities. In 1st. stated, with the permission of the president: the Agency should accept some technical decisions. 3 mg. the Agency is made to set a framework for the cooperation of national monitoring authorities, taking into account the results of such cooperation with the implementation of its own opinions, recommendations or decisions. In other words, individual national monitoring authorities should be taken into account. 7 mg. it will discuss that the Agency needs to determine terms or conditions for access or management of the core efficiency of electrical energy that connects at least two Member States. It is discussed in Article 8. how the Agency decides on these conditions and conditions; which lead us to Article 8. Seven. does not have such an enormous supply of power, since there are opinions that have come down to the council mostly on the 8th matter. ..... for tasks relating to terms of terms and conditions for access and/or the management security of infrastructure across borders - and there are passwords for the cross-border principle. The Agency makes a decision in terms of protocols, falls within national legislation and contains conditions and terms of access and management security, if the national authorities have not agreed on the case within six months or if all national security authorities ask for a decision together. In fact, it is possible to ask for six months to come to an agreement before the Agency gets involved. Here's the key. The terms and conditions which allow infrastructure to cross the borders of the ◯sklu include, in English: ◯shall include. There are four things the Agency has the power to decide, i.e. Transport capacity extraction guidelines: How much transport capacity is being assigned by the sea cables or by this cross-border infrastructure? How is the procedure in assigning such transport ability? The timeout of distribution during transport costs: How long will the person working to have an invitation to have access to this transport capacity? Who's involved in earning money because of a carp? That. if there is a lack of energy somewhere, energy is transferred to, from the source of excess energy, and it is paid for. How is this divided between countries that have access to this crossborder structure? And then, finally, the stress charge for users of the infrastructure, where charges are taken from the user of an angel. Again just the basis of national infrastructure, sea cables, not the cost of anything else, not of any transport network within the country, just between countries. These infrastructures are the only ones in power with regard to opinions and suggestions or decisions. In view of Friuriks of the Árni and Már Moys, we will consider the exercise of power to ESA and the ACER for the European Union in this article asking if the power supply to ESA is clearly defined and defined. This is a translation of the words ◯shall include to say that they do not eliminate more things; the power supply is therefore not clearly defined and defined as it can be added to the list of conditions and conditions. However, when that is true in English, it would be said, with the permission of a president: 'Shear include', not related to, but not limited to. If we examine other translations, e.g. A Danish translation, which uses the word "gamphitte. " And as in English and any other language, the word is used in links on the list. The same is true in Swedish. It also uses the word "toms." In these languages, this means: an empty list. It also does and does so in English. This is the key to all this criticism, that this list is not exhaustive. But in all the languages in which this Regulation is translated, it is complete. So the criteria that say that the power enterprise is not well defined and defined just do not fit according to language translation and practice in writing how a list is limited or not limited. In this translation, he is clearly exhaustive, and there is no possibility of adding additional factors. This is a power exchange, yes, it is absolutely true, but it is the agency that there should be a process of distribution, that it should be clear what time limit of bioavailability is, that it is clear how your income will be divided if there is a system problem and how you will be affected by the users' infrastructure across the border forts. We'll set these rules. They only have to meet the standards set out in these regulations and directives. Then I ask: How much power supply is it really when it has no effect on any domestic or energy distribution, no more, just on the sea cable and the rules that concern it? Only on them. It is only natural to think, " Is giving away this court of judgment? ' It's not really just a right to decide, it's a court of decision after all, because each member of his country has the opportunity to make a deal in the first place. Of course, for some phenomenon, such as a cable, which is not only in Icelandic jurisdiction but also in another country, there has been something about the matter of saying. This is usually done in contracts. This is the basis for these contracts by setting common rules. It is very normal to understand this in European languages, where border borders are much more and much easier to establish connections and can easily connect to more countries, that there is a need to be a common rule. Otherwise, agreements have to be made with each other on how this is going to work and when it comes to moving energy from one place to another need to be considered that as well as many contracts according to the amount of energy required. Therefore, the European Union is always setting common rules, setting principles that do not limit national decision-making, not property or resource control, but setting up a set of frameworks that it can work within. What the rules are, not to have abnormal obstacles, not to have a monopoly. That's what it's all about. This is a specific anti-monolification rule, which was the problem after the first and second energy package at the time of analysis. That's what didn't work in the first and second energy package. Hence, it took a little further to eliminate an ongoing monopoly. That was the problem. We have a problem in Iceland too. 80% of the energy we produce goes to the aluminium companies. Garden farmers, e.g. who would like to have a store or something like that have had such a problem trying to obtain a price similar to that of the aluminium companies. This package of energy would be more apparent because the price needs to be displayed. When we see the price of a similar event, they say: " Hear, forgive, why does he get it at a much lower price than I do? ' It's the big companies that get into trouble with this energy package, much more than the Icelandic consumers, much more. In the 9th. will discuss other projects, that the Agency can accept annullation when newcomers are submitted, with the exception of these rules that are placed on the foreheads. They may be temporary, to encourage innovation in energy production, etc. So it's not really a show of power because it's subsidizing the conditions the Agency would otherwise set. A career of power has no particular meaning in this sense. This Regulation then contains additional articles on consultations and transparency, monitoring and reporting, planning of the Management Board, the management of the Rapporteur, the Commission, the Commission's project, full of the highly normal information on each project. They discuss cases, how charges work, how lawsuits and financial restrictions work. I recommend that people read through this. It's not that far. It's no problem to read this text. You only have to get a little context, certainly, because it is often referred to in ◯ this article in the other Regulation, etc., so you only have to go back and forth. But in the end, you will reach no other conclusion than that this Regulation and the power promotion that it certainly includes is actually small because it has to do with things that are between countries. Of course, it is not our decision to determine everything about that relationship. If we were to say, "Okay, we're going to lay a cable and take it to Britain. The British would say, "U, what are you doing?" Just like if the British were going to put a cable here, we'd say, "Wait a minute, we'll have to negotiate." Of course. That's why we lay the foundation for these common rules. And that, when there is a disagreement, we have a chance of going to the Rapporteur or Co-operation agency to decide it. If there's a disagreement, it's only a court route after that. So there are all kinds of defenses on it, back and forth. It took a little longer than I expected, so I'm just going to skip a review of the conditions of access to a network for electrical exchange across borders. However, the objective of this article is to set reasonable limits on electrical exchanges and thereby increase internal market competition with electricity, taking into account national and regional characteristics. This includes implementing a system due to an electronic emission payment across the border and setting up agreed cross-border costs, the distribution of the transfer capacity of the transfer line. All of this has been followed by the Agency. All of this is to facilitate a well-worked, well-transparent, well-translational market with high delivery security and establish a system to coordinate national energy exchange rules to eliminate the obstacles that have fueled the system's monologue. Again, the rules are only being made. Seven. has been specifically stated by the president's permission: The Commission rules should be developed for national networks and cover cross-borders and market integration and should not influence the right of Member States to establish national systems that do not influence cross-border business. The key point, thank you, for all those who are going to say that there is some intervention between foreign people or something like that. This article accurately states that this is not true. That's not true. The delivery protocol and publication of electrical targets data? All I have is a good thing about that regulations, and I can remember anyone else saying anything else. It belongs, for example. To provide information on stress, forecasting of pressures, production, inseparability, corrosion, infrastructure, transport ability, measures for systemging, equations, prices, and other activities. A lot of these programs that put the basis for the national and regional programmes that each individual needs to make. So, finally, it is a directive for common rules on the internal market for electricity. This directive contains many very good things, e.g. for the Icelanders. It speaks of energy security and services as well; for areas in need of energy, a programme must be set up to meet that energy need. This applies, e.g. We're on Eyjafjörður. That's what Westfjords mean. This is something they land would definitely want to get clearly in a national programme on how energy development to their land will be in the future. It's absolutely necessary to finally get something like that they've been calling for a long time. This is about energy security within each area that has recently faced problems. Let's do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u283	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a busy speech. There's something I'd like to be at the bottom of. A senator, e.g. the fact that the third energy package does not include translucency of translucency, at least In my opinion, it is quite clear where the European Union is heading for the long-term in these areas. That's what I'm always talking about. I would like to mention, as an example from Regulation No. 714, which is one of the types contained in the third energy pack. In 1st. CYP3A4 induction by tipranavir/ritonavir. To achieve increased efficiency, competitiveness and higher levels of service, and to contribute to security and sustainability. That's kind of what I want to ask you. Senator: How does he actually see what I've been trying to talk about today - who does he think is their main objective in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u284	A respectable president. This was an excellent list of the aims of avoiding contaminated energy, building energy security for consumers and smaller companies. It is specifically discussed in the national service package that national authorities, each member of the Member State, should establish energy security policy, a programme, a national home and can also organise smaller companies. This is something that is absolutely necessary to do and has been necessary in Iceland for quite some time. I've been at some committee meetings where Landsnet comes and says, "We need a plan because we don't know where to put lines. Meanwhile, e.g. The Eyjafjörður and the West Coast say, "We need electricity." This is exactly what they are dealing with in Europe too. That's why it's so important that we do the same thing, but they've just done it for us, and very well, too. They have done so very well in many other types, e.g. ... witha telecommunications company. There's been a decrease in the price of phone calls, remuneration, and netaff. In this regard, we are very effective. And we do not have a common price there, even though we are connected with the nets and the paraphernalia back and forth. We do not have the same price as we do in other lands. We don't need to have a higher price on Internet connections here in Iceland, although we're connected in exactly the same way. So I see nothing bad in this vision of energy security, delivery security, green energy policy, and nothing but good to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u285	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Besides, I don't see anything wrong with having energy security, so I can't help seeing that we have it. What I am primarily asking is, What is the future? How can you tell? A senator's vision of the European Union's future what brings them together, so I can get it out of me, the internal energy market for all Member States? Are we not on that road, or are we counting it? A senator says that we have some kind of energy problem, even though we are building up an increased transport capacity and using less energy to establish areas where we know we need energy? And what? A senator rightly points out. That's right. What I'm mainly wondering is this future view that I'm asking about, the European Union in the common energy connection between all Member States, which I think I interpret as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u286	A respectable president. As shown in the language of the dog. There's nothing in this for a senator who drives us to sea cables. This is true in all other European countries. The European Union is naturally merely developing these common rules for the European Union as such and is, therefore, primarily thinking about it. When it comes to building strings between countries, however, it is few in Europe because distances are much shorter. Yet there's no obligation to string them down, nor is there anyone here. The cost of wearing a cable and connected with it is natural only absurd in view of the circumstances in which we are in. The European Union is naturally not involved. We have a power problem. We have very green energy, but we take the grossly polluted industry here to use that energy while we might be able to take the environmentally friendly industry to use the same energy in and allow more contaminated industry to be in some other place that will cost them more and will not be as competitive. At least it comes out on an equal scale, acting like that. [[The president calls.]] We do not have to take over the pollution of others, not at all. Instead, we should consider building a competitive and green industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u287	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. This is where I have made up reviews received by the State Department on this matter. We can see that this is a thick book that shows that there are many who have expressed their opinion of it, and that is good. It also shows that this is a big, important matter for the nation. If I only have a review sent by HS Orcs, I noticed one interesting thing. It says here, by permission of the President: With a 6. bill of changing electricity laws and the Power Institute laws [...] on panels. In addition, 1222 is added to a 45% increase in energy monitoring costs. As soon as it is recognized that the public cost of monitoring by electronic law, as well as by other laws, the HD Energy may well point out that the increase is considerable and expect it to be protected by electrical energy and will ultimately affect users of electricity, both homes and businesses. This hall of the Management Board has now been held to say that this energy package does not change anything about raising electrical prices for households and businesses. Now we see in black and white that it doesn't make sense. Here's a company that says it's just that they're gonna put this into the prices and raise the electricity to households and companies because they're going to raise the power monitoring fee. [[The president calls.]] Hv. At the beginning of his speech with politicians, a senator spoke about confidence. It would be good to have his presence in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u288	A respectable president. That's a very good question. We went over the numbers and we calculated how it spread. It's a cost - it's actually paying for the surveillance agency as such. Yeah, there's a 45% increase in the price that's a certain dollar in the end. Not a 45% increase in each account for each user but a 45% increase in total cost. The price is then divided into all users. The price is not so much when you share it with so many users. Those who use the most energy will pay most of it. We simply calculated it. We'll take about 80% aside that the industry would pay, 80% of that price, 20% of it would fall in the home or less. That would be about 100K. every year, per man. At the same time, right out of the energy package, there is the possibility that you can go and change supplies, and there are circumstances in which people can reduce the bill by $30,000. in one year by switching from one to another. So we have $30,000. to profit against the price of a hundred. I'm not worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u289	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It was quite interesting, actually, that changing energy sales could reduce the energy bill. I've tried to do it personally. I had my home with electricity, and I had no reduction in it. So there are two accounts. I think it's just a little bit of the essence of this case, this uncertainty. It is not possible to answer here what the electricity will do to raise users. I can't see in any of these comments that it's going to be 100 bucks. in a home. If that's true, it's good to get it out. No evidence of that. It just says it's a significant rise and it will lead to an increase in users, both households and businesses. Sadly, it has to be said at the moment that there is so much uncertainty in this. [[The president calls.]] There's still a lot left. This is one of the main points of the matter, an increase in the electricity of homes and businesses in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u290	A respectable president. We just counted it ourselves, with all the warnings we made. Of course, it would be good to get opinions from more partners in this regard. The levels, however, are in such a way divided by energy production, that it is not so difficult to calculate. And because of this question, I think it's kind of amazing. A senator did not take advantage of this opportunity in the Committee to ask the exact question. Why was that not to be asked? We didn't find it very difficult. We just took the number, we calculated it, saw that it was nothing special to worry about, a hundred times a year for a home or so, would be at least the degree in which we didn't have to follow it any further. But, hey. A senator's probably worried about this, so I guess he should try to figure it out himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u291	V.E.G. President. This is an outstanding speech that was given here. I want to take one point out of this, legalized in the third energy package, focus on continuing to strengthen the internal market for electricity and the implementation of further measures to ensure sustainable, safe and competitive energy for Europe. The energy policy is also linked to the 20/20/20-2000 targets, i.e. in 2020 renewable energy sources provide countries with at least 20% of the energy needs, 20% increase in energy efficiency and 20% in greenhouse gas emissions. This is a term here, 20/20. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament whether the Icelanders will benefit in any way by implementing EU energy restrictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u292	A respectable president. This is a very ambitious goal, but it might be even more ambitious. Since we have reached that goal, we need not worry that we need to work at something to get it. But why would it be good to record it? There are other things I went over, e.g. The consumer protection contained in this energy package. This is the separation between distribution and production, which, for example, provides a specific monopolydipsia, such as. In a telecommunications market with Shimann and Mila, the one who's going to buy Simman's TV has to shop at Mila, can't shop with anyone else. It is such a monopoly that is being attempted to break up and exist in many parts of Europe. In fact, it is still there in Iceland too, so it needs only attention. It is the independent surveillance that closely observes that there are no abnormal obstacles. The best thing I see in this is the energy security and the whole service, that's the best supplement I've ever seen. In this country, national policies are designed to provide a national policy on how to provide energy security throughout the country. So it would be, not by hoping for energy somewhere else, but by some contract: Would we like to help with the security right here between us in these areas and where we're connected? We don't need to. That would be 800 billion dollars. An investment, not to make energy, but to transport energy only crazy, completely crazy. And yet, all the people who come to the idea of a cable are: Yes, we'd love to do this as long as someone else builds it, because we're not going to put 800 billion on this. But once the cable has arrived, it would be awesome to be able to carry energy through it. That would have been great, for example. When the first farm came here if there had been a sea cable then we would have been paid a much better price for the energy instead of selling it to contaminated industry. [[The president calls.]] But we didn't have that choice then. We have a different choice now, fortunately. This is very positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u293	A respectable president. It's all right. Unlike the largest member countries in the EU, Iceland is rich in clean renewable energy. As is common in EU countries, we burn our houses with ecology rather than with oil and gas. Electricity today is less expensive here than in most European countries. Then I can think of: Can we trust that the EU will set rules that will suit our situation? To do so, 62.5% of the people are at the opposite. I feel that this is sometimes forgotten during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u294	A respectable president. As I went over the report on the conditions for access to a network of electrical exchanges across borders, it says in Article 7. that the system rules should be developed because of national networks and cover borders and market integration and should not affect the right of Member States to establish national protocols that do not affect cross-border business. It was there when the first and second energy package was introduced, so no electricity subsidies were allowed directly, i.e. They couldn't pay this energy company money for the production. In contrast, it was to be paid indirectly to the user, to be done on the distributors. It doesn't matter who he is using, who he chooses to buy from, who he comes down from. We still have the right to establish such rules, on subsidies between areas, etc., to provide a specific energy security for the people of the country, so I'm not into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u295	Mr. President. The Icelandic government has now had the so - called third energy package under consideration for nine years or so on their tables. The committees of the Parliament, the State Department, the National Affairs Committee, the Commission and the Commission have discussed the matter, and all of these committees have concluded that there was nothing in the way of accepting the third energy package, curing natural policy decisions. In the early 2015 of the government, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon's son was actually presented a administrative bill for changes in electricity law. It was the first step in implementing a section of the third energy package, and before its introduction to the EEA joint committee was established. In other words, twenty-two. Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2009 No. 72, on the common rules for the internal market of electricity, this country was created two years before the joint EEA committee met for induction. As was pointed out when the bill was submitted, the aim of this directive is to improve and integrate a competitive electrical exchange within the Community. The Law made was the electric law. This added detailed regulations for the transport system system. Preparation of a system plan, material content, control status, including with regard to community planning, implementation, and follow-up. Is specifically responsible for the role of the Power Agency in agreeing and monitoring the implementation of a system plan. As mentioned earlier, the committees have discussed this matter in a detailed way. The Foreign Committee concluded its discussion on September 20, 2016, with this review being sent to the Commission's opinion and monitoring committee from November 2014 and the World Commission from October 2014. According to the State Department, the adaptation agreed on by the two support systems of the EEA Convention and is comparable to what is agreed on by a European financial monitoring system. In May 2017, all the states of EFTA within the EEA decided on a administrative notice to implement the three energy directive. Norway and Liechtenstein have already lifted the warning signs. In our dealings with other nations, as in our personal relationships, it is so important that we can be consistent, that we act on a project when we take part in molding it, especially when we desire to be taken into account our individual status, or individual, in terms of some kind of rules that humans would agree on. That it has all that work, especially homework itself, only indicate that there is a full and firm willingness to cooperate with the developer on the basis of the rules on which men work together to shape. All 2010 governments, as well as the World Council, have arranged their affairs in a way that our fellow workers in the EEA, mostly within the EFTA, have maintained the good belief that Iceland would introduce the third energy directive. That the government would not seize the emergency, as it were. In this regard it is necessary to remember that it is undisputed that the Icelanders and the Icelandic Governments, the Generals, have the full and uncluttered right to refuse to omit controlled warnings regarding the induction of the third energy package as well as the other directives as the joint EEA committee, where we are seated, have agreed to initiate a follow-up of Congress, at least At the General Assembly and then at the Assembly Hall, which, following this discussion, has given green light to implement the directive. The emergency inhibitor is there. We can use it, we could use it in this case if we believe that our interests are better protected. But it is naive to think that after all that is going on, where all the countries of the EEA are working on consistent rules, there is no impact on communication in the EEA. It is not because of the evil will of the national governments towards us, but primarily because of the fact that the history, when you see every step that the government has taken over the case, governments by governments, members of Congress by Congress, has never given you anything other than a firm will, after we have received approved adjustments and releases, to install the third energy package. Of course, with that in mind, we must lose a measure of credibility. We lose a measure of trust, just as when we communicate with each other or with friends and associates, and we try to make a decision in a matter, and we abandon meetings in that faith, with the assurance that the handshake, the handshake, is standing. Of course, if we do not live up to it, we must lose a measure of credibility in the mind of the one taking our hand. If we look at what we have done, we made a decision, or rather, the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugson made a decision in January 2015 to request that a possible sea cable between Iceland and Europe or Scotland be placed on a special list by the European Union, PCI. It was not the European Union that took the initiative. It wasn't the joint EEA scene that took the initiative. No, it was Icelanders. It was Icelanders who wanted an Icelandic sea cable to be in the European Union's list of possible infrastructures. It was under the premise that in the wish, no commitments were made from us. The climate at both the Committee's section of the State Department and then in individual talks here is indicated that in the EU's list of sea cables, there is some evidence that the European Union is storing up cheap and clean and green electricity. On the contrary. This is on the hands of the Icelanders. There is now a decision and a request that we no longer be on this requested list. As I said before, all the committees of the council that have been involved have recommended the approval of the energy package in 2014 and 2016. So the Council agreed that the induction of the third energy package would be beneficial prior to the final decision for the King Sigmund Gunnlaugsson Gunnulson to introduce the third energy package before the final decision for its induction was made at the scene of the joint EEA Commission. All of this, however, does not change the fact that the Council has, and will always have been the last to have been when these ships are introduced. It is Generalis to decide whether to remove governmental notice. It's an emergency. We must agree on this, even though there are issues we can debate. But there must be rich and great interests at stake for Icelandic society to justify the use of these brakes, the stepping on the emergency brake. And when it comes to the third energy package? We are not giving up the power of energy resources in any way. We are not putting up with any obligation on how, who, and when to use the energy resource. We'll stay here to manage and make our own decisions, regardless of everything and everyone, on our own terms and on our own terms. The nation's interests in what way we use the resource. We are not going under obligation or making promises about the sea cables. Whether or when a cable will be laid, a decision will be made on our own terms and will be taken, including, will be met by the government's case, subject to the approval of the greater part of the Council. On the contrary, we are not commitmenting ourselves to alter the ownership of the country's major and most important energy companies. We are not extending jurisdictional or ownership of the energy sources, energy companies or anything else with the third energy package or any other directives that have been introduced or will be introduced in the future. It is a built-in and inseparably part of the EEA Convention to the Management Board of Possessions and thus its implementing and implementing the custody of each Member State. That's inseparable. 125. g. The EEA Convention. It can't be clearer. As with Iceland, we're in charge of how to use our resources and all our systems because of the highest level of our resources. Secretary of state and supreme. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers have handled the case with legal notice of the fixation of a cable. Has been met with those who were concerned about this, and I am one of them, that this may be too extreme, even against a constitution. In this regard, however, it is important to quote the letter of Stefán's Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst of April 10, which they considered to be the right to write after discussions that took place in the council on the energy directive and in the media regarding the Congress proposals we discuss here. By permission of the president, they say the word - and it's clear: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamentally in the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. Mr. President, more clearly, you can see that. However, the moment may come when I consider it necessary to grab the emergency inhibitor for some reason. This is likely because governments, members of Congress, the entire Icelandic government, failed in the entire process, did not do their homework. I believe that in this case the Icelandic government was the sole object of Iceland's interest. I think that in the time of the government of Shimmer Gunnlaugsson, the Davíð of Gunnul, all the major and most important steps in this case were taken. All that was done gave our friends nations and our partners in the EEA evidence that we would introduce the energy directive with the provisions and warnings there. We've actually gone further. There is no danger. There are none of the interests being put to the fore. There is no danger in any of the interests of the public, on the contrary. If they decide not to lift the governmental notice - I am one of those who had strong doubts about the entire arrangement and then asked me questions that I then asked myself to answer in a number of ways. I was concerned about whether this would affect the competitiveness of the Icelandic community, the competitiveness of companies, and the competitiveness of the households because it might affect energy prices. I was worried that we might be handing over some power to an international institution we should not be around. Since these concerns were real, I understand well when many people in this Assembly Hall are concerned about what we are doing, and many people in the country are concerned about what we are doing. Of course, there are examples from the past, especially during the period when Icelanders sought to become members of the European Union, that our interest management was not being properly cared for in the EEA. They changed, and they began to do their homework and to care for national and national interests. Now, hopefully, we have arranged to see that the legal officer is sewn into this council-sense proposal and is actually in the legal bill that has come from the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. The conclusion is that we are not sacrificing any interests. However, we are making the promises, the metals we have made. There's no legal question, Mr. President, that everything we're doing is a matter of permanence, which matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u296	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I determined that in his talk he made it necessary for us to be careful in our cooperation and relations, both with other countries and with individuals, to be consistent in all work, and to work on the basis of the rules set out. The people we're negotiating with had the good believe that Iceland was going to bring in and not grab an emergency. The emergency inhibitor is who? Is it only if we follow the contracts and use the sources there to take the case back to the EEA Coalition Committee, but the warnings are not? Are they not an emergency, too, if we have indicated that we would introduce the energy law, the third energy package, and still put in a warning about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u297	Mr. President. I'm not quite sure I understand the question, but I'm gonna try. We're setting a legal warning, if that's what we're doing. A senator is referring to him. Of course, this is in agreement, and there is even a statement made by our fellow workers, both in the EEA, the joint EEA Committee, and no less important in my mind, these friends of ours who are in EFTA and who are members of the EEA. All I'm saying is that when we communicate - we can deal with our friends and we are to protect our interests, not theirs, that is, of course, on our terms - we must also be careful about something consistent. We have taken all their steps in this process, in every step we have been able to balance them, and we have never indicated anything other than that we would play the game to the end. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'll say, "If you're going to take the emergency, let's at least take it from here." Do not be so naive in thinking that our relationship with other nations will not be affected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u298	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u299	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'm talking about this warning that's been suggested there's lights and there's light for everybody. If they're legal, they're legal. But they have not been written in law. They are in the form of declarations. Hv. paritaprevir The Independence Party, the Birgir son of an Ármannsson, described it in a talk earlier that it was in the form of declarations. I call upon the Senator to inform me that, if we should take care of our interests with these warnings, why it is not stronger for us to do so inside the joint EEA committee. If the declarations of our collaborators on the way that these are what they are willing to accept on our behalf, why shouldn't it be easy to put these priors in the agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u300	Mr. President. Of course, the legal defences will be set up in a Regulation, which will be published on the basis of the clause we address here. Plus, we're in a hurry. Senator, bill, CDC on deck. 1253, about the change in electrical law. At the same time, there is a synonym, which makes it clear that we are going to arrange our affairs in such a way that we will not be placed here without the approval of a greater part of the Generals. There's at least Legally registered, please. A senator, and then he will be transferred to a book in the Regulation as a matter of course. A senator is having a hand in the process of making an arrangement - I hope that he will join us and detract the council agreement in a positive way. This will be a book in the Regulation that will be published on the basis of the judicial arrangement presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u301	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It is now that one of the main arguments of the management and their gangs in the struggle for the induction of the energy package is that the induction is of no significance for Iceland. Likewise, we hear in a talk given at any time. A senator's fear of what the consequences will be for us Icelanders if the Allied rejects the power package. Thus, this position is, in effect, to give up the right to reject decisions made by the European Commission, except perhaps in some emergency situation, although in fact nothing in the 102th period. The EEA Treaty suggests that this is the case. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask who. Senator: Should we be governed by political fear?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u302	Mr. President. I'm not going to make you especially happy by being short, but the answer is short, of course. paritaprevir Þórarinsson. There is no one here who speaks for us to be controlled by political fear. What kind of idea is that? I'm just saying, what? A senator, that we are not naive in human relations to think after going through this process - below. Government leader. The senator and the current head of the Central Party, all major steps taken then - that this will not affect our dealings with other nations, at least The ones that are next to us in EFTA. That's all I'm saying, okay? Senator. It is another matter whether he fears it or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u303	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I listened carefully to a talk. Senator. It was obvious that he fears the very political consequences of our refusal to accept this induction. I wholeheartedly agree with him that we have nothing to be controlled by political fears, but I could not help but hear why. A senator but who allowed political fear to govern him in the matter. If not, we can go the legal way, huh? Senator, to take advantage of us at 102 st. in the contract, to handle the case for the joint EEA committee, and to get a conclusion that we can hopefully enjoy, and a permanent release. Hv. Senator, you have paradoxs in your speech. I'm just gonna say exactly as it is: You're afraid of these consequences - and they're political - but you're not ready to take advantage of the legal means we have in the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u304	I want less of it. Councilmen are to be careful of correct comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u305	Mr. President. Hv. Birgir Þórðarson has not listened carefully to my speech. I was just arguing that there are no material reasons to refuse to introduce the energy package because of that, contrary to what has been claimed in misleading language, including. Yeah. A senator, that we are in no way canceling any of the interests that give us the basis for doing so in cooperation in the EEA as suggested. We're not giving up control of the energy resources. We are not making any decision to fix a sea cable or to commit any such commitments. We are not making any decision that affects the way we operate property or use the resources - contrary to what is said or left to the weather in this Assembly Hall and outside the council. Therefore, I say: There are no material reasons to refuse to introduce the third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u306	A respectable president. What a thrill it is to hear that there is considerable debate! Councilmen who aren't here. So I'm going to pick up that custom. Earlier today, it was. A member of the council, in fact, was a proclamation, a statement by the Icelandic government, and more than that, he also mentioned that the EFTA countries had this warning, just by another expression. I can see why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason will take along now so the defence will appear only in the terms of Article 1. the legal bill we were discussing earlier was published by the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. Is that the alarm? Is that the course?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u307	Mr. President. On the basis of this council decree, it will be carried out which I hope it will be stated in the Regulation. It is announced to the joint EEA committee in what way we are going to implement, legally or legally, which we will prepare to include. with a change in electrical law that I turned aside in an anti-energy situation earlier. It's not that complicated. Of course, they are outcasts and are being raised some form of suspicion as to what is called a legal agent. This doesn't work for humans in Norway. This doesn't work out for humans in Liechtenstein. It's not for humans in Brussels, but it's for someone in here. It's just because there's something else hanging on the stick. A senator wants to be left alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u308	V.E.G. President. There's nothing else hanging on my spit but trying to figure out what's more legal when we're talking about here. That's the main question. What has been said today is that there may really be nothing more than a political statement by the government and the more, because you are calling all these EFTA countries and their declarations, we are part of the EFTA and nothing wrong, it's also a political declaration. It's not a legal one. Furthermore, government policy is not a legal one unless we see it in writing and in an obvious way what it involves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u309	Mr. President. I'll admit, I'm not quite sure I understand what's going on. A senator is leaving. I have believed that it is generally clear to most people in Iceland what the word legal counsel is. The premise is a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u310	What law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u311	We are now, for example. ... toturntolaws--what. Former minister of foreign affairs should now know how we implement the directives and in what ways, etc. So I don't have to go over it - a law order that involves the legal officer, including On the basis of the changes we're making on electronic law and we're on the bill that's in front of us, and hopefully they'll take care of us next week. You can continue to discuss what is legal in advance, and perhaps there is a subject that only a better person's lecture is given to you than to me on the legal basis. I know exactly what I'm doing when I'm signing, for example. Legally, a contract. [[The president calls.]] I know exactly what is involved in a declaration of legal advance in general in human relations and, as it were, in dealing with nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u312	V.E.G. President. One of the scholars who came to the State Department said that this legal court was only for home bridges. It is not so good if the scholar's conclusion is that he exists only in a home bridge. But I would like to ask. Senator two questions if I can get them in. First, whether he is a little worried because the recent steps we have taken also mean that we are gradually taking the step fully into the common European energy market. I'm worried that this is part of it, and that's why I'm so careful about all of this. More important, since last year we saw that the French are giving in to the commuting of Brussels, their demand to replace French government companies. The Brussels power has forced the French for many years in an effort to divide them. Therefore, one might ask, " Is it not a concern if we are gradually taking steps in that direction? ' I'm not saying we're taking the step to the full right now, but this could be one little step in that direction. Eventually, after a pack of four, five, or six, we're there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u313	Mr. President. To be honest, I'm a little surprised at this inquiry of my friend, okay? paritaprevir Gunnar, the son of Sveinsson, from the Book of the Sheep, because we are both from there. These are steps. A senator took us and led us into our midst. I suppose, if I follow correctly, and remember that he has at least a not during the course of the Ministers were concerned with finding the joint conclusion of the EEA that the induction of the third energy package should be accelerated. I don't have the same worry, chief. President, and what? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. We're in charge. We'll work on that, and it's already taken up to work on the fourth energy package, to analyze the interests of our Icelanders, where they lie, etc. [[The president calls.]] We do so on our terms, as we have always done and should. We guard the interests of the Icelanders, and that has certainly been done in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u314	V.E.G. President. It's kind of a nasty tradition at the moment. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is usually being ignored or with some kind of damage. But it's only his way here at the Congress Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u315	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u316	In the years I was a minister and a good man. A senator was referring to them in an effort to negotiate with them all over the process, but, unfortunately, they were not available. There's been some exceptions that don't matter too much. That's why we're starting today to have to say no to this. Wrong as hell. A senator has said that something was promised. Who promised the Norwegians to bring in this package? I don't know who it was. There's nobody I know. Hv. A senator said so earlier. [[Up front.]] I'd like to ask a senator how he'd think of minimizing his party sister, Elín Árnadóttir, who brought a bill in 2015, a bill that was followed by the electronic law adopted in 2013 regarding the system risk for Iceland. Will members of Congress come here now and say it's wrong that the bill has been moved to follow the rules of 2003? And what did the minister say in his speech? That it was not a fundamental reason to bring these laws, the energy package now involved. [[The president calls.]] Is the senator saying that this was not the fundamental reason for changing the law lies in a public talk? ... Please open your talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u317	Mr. President. There are many ways to turn my words out, and this was a little clever. I wasn't minimizing my sister's party in any way. I was not making it suspicious in any way or critical of the change in electricity law in 2015 under the leadership of that government. A senator sat in and served as minister of foreign affairs and helped shape the third energy package in the current form. [[Up front.]] Let's not forget it. Let's not have a way out. I wasn't making it suspicious, I was reminding you that it was a common government decision. paritaprevir These are the steps that Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunoll takes. [[Up front.]] I think it was a good step. [[Up front.]] Me, what. A senator, who never said that we promised something to the Norwegians, that we had promised. I was just saying... [[Consider your talk.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u318	The Senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u319	There's something bad going on here. Senator. All I said was that in our dealings with the EEA Committee, with the Norwegians, with the Liechtenstein and with the European Union, we went forward in a way that they could and had a good faith that we would follow the case all the way. A senator led a long way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u320	Mr. President. I wondered how long we should be in this discussion today. I heard some rumor that she should be even past midnight, but I don't think that's really wise. There are very few reminders here, most of them in their second speech, and much is shown. We have quite a long, difficult day, both in committees and in the Hall of Congress. By all means, then, we will try to find some reasonable form of communication. So I aim to try to make peace among members of Congress on how we continue this discussion and for how long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u321	Mr. President. It is important for us senators to know when a meeting will be completed. When will the President complete this conference? Certainly, there was a agreement that there would be a night meeting. But how long is he supposed to be? That's what we need to know. At nine o'clock in the morning, the committees will begin, and we members of the Parliament will need an opportunity to organize our work. I would like the President to inform us how long this meeting will last.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u322	The president asks: Have the members of Parliament discussed how long they want a meeting to continue? Perhaps it would be nice for members of the Parliament to do so and offer some suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u323	A respectable president. When you hear that it is due until midnight, just when the committees become relatively early in the morning - perhaps nothing too early compared to some of the others at work - you may wonder, " I am not prepared for work law at rest time or anything like it. ' Still, that might be taken into consideration. If a committee meeting is to begin at about nine, we should not be much longer than midnight. Well, it's my suggestion, anyway, not that there's been any particular discussion in the past, anyway, so I don't know. But it's at least My idea. So I agree with the encouragement of the senators who have come here not to have a night meeting. There's no need to be, because there are also long and hard committee jobs in the coming days, and I'm not interested in being some zombie at those committee meetings, as very important and large matters are being covered at those meetings, and you have to be very attentive to visitors who make comments. You have seen such a long time in life that some committees may blink at times only when it is the most difficult to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u324	The president points out that the Labour Code refers to an 11 - hour rest, yet if required, men may arrive sooner than they receive double payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u325	Not senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u326	The senators don't get paid double, though. That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u327	Mr. President. I would like to agree with the exhortation given, on the part of. The members of the Council of Logi Einar Einarsson and Oddný Harðardóttir, that this meeting will be postponed in a reasonable time. They've brought up good and valid reasons, including ... theyhavea great job waiting on committees in the morning. For example, a meeting was scheduled for a large meeting on the job committee at 9 p.m. In addition, I'd like to add something else about the energy package case we've been discussing, especially this so-called legal advance, which is now a big question mark. This would give extra space to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u328	Mr. President. Just to say what's been said, it's okay to limit ourselves to some modest time. It has been challenging to spend less than midnight and even less. Now we know that the limitation of sleep has some negative effects on us humans. We'll be more forgetful. We're making more mistakes. In addition, we may find it difficult to keep logic into the albino process, and we know that this is not really to be done at the General Assembly. It's important that all of us are extremely critical. So I would suggest, if I thought about it, not completing a meeting later than midnight. That would be fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u329	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the members of Congress that have preceded me. Because of what? The president called for a suggestion earlier, I suppose - in view of the number of people on the rosary that seems to be yours, you have a real material introduction that you think the members of that body will come from - make my suggestion that we found in the morning. 11 and then we have ten hours to a meeting. In my case, I'm going to drive back and forth, and I know that a lot of others have to take a good time driving. I don't think it's going to be all right. 11 or 12 with regard to the rosary. Of course, there's a lot of things that I think there's a lot of time that can be used for someone who's gonna be able to process evidence in Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u330	Mr. President. I must express my joy in the highest. The president and how he suggested that the members of the council here worry that they will not get enough sleep, suggest a solution to the situation. I think it's a remarkable performance, and I would like to commend a president for inviting us to offer a solution. Those who have to drive back and forth an hour from work, e.g. If you have a problem with Aranesp, you should take it as high as possible. The first vice president of S. Brjánsson - I'd say we can't end this job later than about 2 p.m. 11th That's why. A senator returned to his home about 12 and needs to be back at 7:30 or 8:00 to be here in the morning. [[The president calls.]] Then we're talking about a seven-eight-hour rest period that I think is in accordance with public health goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u331	A respectable president. I only have to make a comment to a talk. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr before. He spoke of people's ability to reason on the subject of night - to - night witnessing. In fact, I don't think it makes any difference whether it's 8:00 in the evening or two in the morning. The middle party's arguments are equally pathetic for that. At the same time, I'll take my side. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir in the presence of a new president. The solution to the long evening meeting is simple: To reduce the number of evenings, e.g. Middle - class members - delivering the same talk over and over - could cut down a considerable amount and would not do the matter late in the council hall. [[The point is, What is this?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u332	Mr. President. I've come here to say yes - I think it's right to call it just a requirement - the senators who have come up here and said it's unacceptable that we're going to go back to some night meeting. The case is in the knot that it is, not necessarily because of the conduct of the Middle-class people who are just using their right to discuss the matter, but because the government groups have sat on it like a worm on it--I say gold, some say something else--for a long time. Here's the pressure. I was sitting in the office and reviewing the hundreds of cases that now sit on committees and that have not yet been decided whether to finish or go where they should go. And the government groups still talk about their plans to complete their routines at the norm. It's not gonna get caught. We need to be fully active. Now I may speak against having a late meeting, but the committee's work is important. These issues are enormous. It is unacceptable that there will be a sleepless assembly in the morning to participate in committees on the various matters there. This case has to have its course, and I strongly object that a meeting continues until midnight tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u333	Mr. President. I'll have to say, in part, with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that maybe there wasn't a lot of evidence from the Central Party tonight. However, there is a tendency to get worse. We can't afford it at all. In addition, it is also dangerous for our arguments to get worse at the same time. These are good reasons for not being late into the evening. This may be to correct the problem. A senator - now I am so tired that I can't remember names anymore - mentioned a number of cases mentioned in the committees. Now I've had a few issues that have come up with committee opinions in committees, one case in months, two other cases at least A long time. This matter could be handled, and in reality it is only possible for the directors to help us get things out so that they can continue to be treated for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u334	Mr. President. I think it's important that we find out when this meeting is to be concluded. Me and the council presidents agreed to an evening meeting. They never talked about a night meeting. I'd like to have confirmation that we're just having a night meeting, and I'm sure it's time to stand here until midnight. But I want to make comments to a talk. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. We cannot expect people to respect the Generals when we ourselves cannot respect what is happening here and to one another. Of the next ten men on the rosary, three are members of the Middle Class. We'll never catch them ten by midnight and note why. Under these circumstances, a senator was absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u335	V.E.G. President. First, I want to know that the discussion is quite surprising to me. The meeting of the council groups was discussed yesterday, and the president announced today that there was a warrant for being here until the evening. I suppose anyone who knows something about the council knows that it can mean a meeting until late in the night if the discussion persists. Now, with some organization it is possible to shorten this discussion, reduce the number of speakers from individual groups, if that is the case. If you can't do that, I can't see any trouble that we're here until midnight and something until night, if it's gonna be to keep the discussion together. If you don't trust yourself to stay, I'd suggest that the discussion of the matter continues tomorrow at the council. Then there would be adjustments in committee jobs, allowing us to discuss the matter in a conversation. [[The president calls.]] But I suppose the council presidents, like me, noticed how the discussion was about this yesterday, and I didn't have any comments of the kind that are being made this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u336	Mr. President. You know, if people overdo something, they like to get their face back. I'd like to review the words of the Council's President in the winter when he praised the progress, it would all come from the government, there would be more cases done than usual. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, however, points out that this matter has been in the hands of the government for months. It would have been long ago able to get in, e.g. without this warning, simplify it. Now I can't better see that the government groups are getting this little thing in the face and they're finally responsible if everything's taken place and we're not going to be able to do a big deal in the spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u337	A respectable president. First, I want to make a word of it. Harðardóttir With regard to my strange speech, I'd like to introduce myself to my son Hardydirdóttir. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son before, but that's all he's gonna do. It has become clear that the interpreter file is not about to run out at some crucial time within the day. Of course, an evening meeting was discussed at a meeting of the council classes. I'm not gonna call it any threats, but there are some mollusks that can be read through a word or a word. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargians, chairman of the Independence Party, says that if not controlled, members of Congress will be allowed to speak into the night. This evening, of course, is not a good start, for here is the next speaker of the Central Party to give the first talk. And of the next three members of the next ten members of the Vocal Index representing the Central Party, there are two in their first talk. I don't really understand what messages are being sent into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u338	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir daughter and what. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason to say a word of what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. They didn't mean that. It has been a very good discussion and a great need to explain the source of these concerns and how good it is to have been able to answer them. We have finally had time to answer such concerns, and we need to do so. If the same argument is to be true today about a combination or something like it, which brings us past midnight, then yesterday they were natural, and we stopped half an hour. A meeting tomorrow to keep the harmony in this? I'm fine, at least because of me. Like what? A senator named Hanna Katrín Friðriksson pointed out hundreds of cases to be handled. There are over 100 cases of government and about 100 members of Congress. We also need committee work, and it is not unusual to go late into the middle of midnight at the time of the end of Congress. [[The president calls.]] But now we're trying to get a case out of a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u339	A respectable president. I'm coming up here for a talk or something. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. When the senator speaks of broad daylight and knows that many are watching, he is a spokesman for freedom, democracy, and equality, but in the dark he comes here and does not want to allow members of the council to speak. [[To the point: Absolutely...]] However, I call for the senator to give a speech in this case and inform us why he now feels all right in the market of electricity, that his party wants to take the steps to the market of electricity in Iceland. It would be easier to explain this to us instead of trying to take the word from the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u340	Mr. President. For word's sake. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, said that the council leaders could have made things clear, I admit that I'm not particularly experienced in years when it comes to Congress. But I'm not psychic either. The situation is that at the meeting of the council classes on Monday, it was talked about, or given up, that there would have to be an evening on Monday and late on Wednesday, if necessary. It was requested tonight on Monday, till midnight. And it is not unnatural to assume that on Wednesday it will also hurt. I can't figure out the difference between us. The fact is, I'd like to finish the case as soon as possible, but these are the rules of the game, and we have to play them. The rest is just completely unacceptable. We have an enormous number of committees ahead of us. I don't know why I'm talking for this committee job. There are more and less cases of government that are there in one whale. But this is a man whose conscience is painted. I'll just say this, so I'll witness to a good partner, Senator Pirata, a Smári Mccarthy: The government's failure does not create an emergency for which the government's possession is responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u341	V.E.G. President. Of course, there could have been talks on the subject at the time that had taken up the meeting with President. It would have been possible to shorten the speaker's file if the discussion had gone reasonably well. All I'm saying is that I look forward to the discussion that will take place in the next few hours and especially in order to have a word with those members who may disagree with me in the matter. I think, as it turned out, by reason of what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear, that it is very important that the discussion take place, and that various statements and statements on the matter be answered. I think so. However, I think we can organize ourselves so that we are not repeating ourselves in an hour and suggest that we do so, rather than set some boundaries ahead of time to determine whether we are here to twelve, one, two or three, as is not unusual during springtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u342	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with the members of the council who have been present on the platform, and I would like to recommend that this be a reasonable hearing and that we do the committee work where there are many incomplete cases. I would like to mention that the discussion has been very good, and I think so. I have found it helpful to talk with those who disagree with me, and I have been able to speak with them in the public assembly, and I would like to do so. To be suggested to take men off the rosary, members of Congress who have not even made the first talk, I think it's a little far gone, and I think it's against the democracy. I think we should stick to the fact that elected agents have the right to comment on matters according to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u343	Mr. President. I come up here to deal with a word. A senator and a member of the Independence Party, Ármannsson, who spoke of it as being good if people weren't coming up here and repeating themselves all the time. I'd love to have a place of words, but you don't have to repeat it again. For this reason, I wanted to point out that out of the next ten on the rosary, one is giving another talk. Everyone else is giving their first talk on this matter. Someone may be repeating something someone else said. I don't know how to stop it. In this case that has been discussed for several hours, I have to admit that I haven't really passed through all the words in my computer that others have said to see if I might be repeating something that someone has said. [[The president calls.]] Although there may be a repetition, my speech will surely be a turning point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u344	A respectable president. I agree to criticize each other. paritaprevir It's Oddný new Hardydir's Harðardóttir on this one. In my jar, I joined the Middle Class and said they were repeating one speech after another, and it was uncool, I now see. May they speak as much as they can. But the head of Congress of the Central Party, huh? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, spoke of it as one night in the sun and the other when it's dark. For one thing, it is not taken to darken it now, and for another, I think the senator knows even worse when it gets darker than the person being here. I suppose tonight's debate won't be the worst thing the senator's heard in the dark, even though we speak here in the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u345	Mr. President. I've been at a council since 2013, and as time passes in May, the meeting will be much longer. It is not unusual for a meeting to be well and far into the night, if that is the case. Today, there are fewer and many important issues that we need to discuss. I agree that I just think it's best if people here speak up and discuss what is on their heart. We'll handle it, and we'll exchange opinions. That's why we need time, and I think we should use the time we have. Going in a bit in the night is not something that at least Many of us have not been able to deal with before, and most of us are probably in here. And going to a hearing in the morning? You can also divide it so that you can rest and change your shift if you are a solution instead of having a hard time going to a meeting in the morning. There are many things you can do to make it easier. But it is not a big problem to stay up one night at a council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u346	A president here finds, after watching a rosary and listening to what has been said, it's challenging that those who are giving their first talk on the subject can do so in bright light and when people are listening, etc. The president of the United States also points out that the new president of the United States has a problem. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson, and he will eventually have ruled over this. The dog. A senator has sat in the hall. I suppose he listened to me. I've been watching him listen to the discussion here. When the president standing here has been a senator, he has always been ready to take up the conversation that night. But forcing others to do so in these circumstances is something that the president here says will not do. Then it is others who take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u347	Mr. President. I've been paying close attention to this discussion here at the Senate Hall, since yesterday, and in response. What has attracted my particular attention is the rush I feel in this matter. The formation of the candidate for the proposal and the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the opinions of the Central Party is also prominent. Since then, my opinion has been that the Union's hearing, restoration and Pirata have given me special attention. In one case after another, they support the uncritical affairs of the government. Furthermore, it will not be avoided to mention the efforts of the followers of the proposal to minimize the conduct of our Middle Class. We are accused of panic and misinformation. In the first session here at the Senate Hall, I mentioned that building - warm electricity in cold areas increased by up to 90% during the induction of a energy pack alone. Then members of the Independence Party called out of the hall that it was a lie. I repeated this on the week's radio program on Channel 1 last week to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which was also part of the program. She repeatedly said that I was wrong. Now I can make these same senators happy, since I can show them this in black and white, that the power of house warming in the Southnes warm space was increased by changes in electricity laws during energy induction only. The increase ranged from 745.996%. DV published, including On February 9, 2005, news on the subject. Here's a photocopy of that story. This is an example of electrical bills from one of four farms. The account is presented on December 28, 2004, and then a month later, i.e. January 25th, 2005. The increase is 74% in this town. Then another town is taken, where the increase is 85%. Third town, where the raise is 96%. And then the fourth town, where the rise is 77%. Here we have this in black and white, Mr. President. And then I'm accused of telling lies to members of the Independence Party and that this is wrong. Councilmen would be pleased to let us be accused of misinformation in the Middle Ages and, in fact, should apologize for these comments they make to me. The evidence that the European Union's energy legislation was adopted by Iceland in 2003 was that it was so brilliantly good for consumers, and I have driven that statement here. The reason for induction of a pack of three is that we must agree because the matter does not come of any value to us, as this sounds strange - agree but has no value. The argument between the management and their party against not agreeing to the energy package is that the EEA Convention is compromised. If we don't, the part of the EEA deal may be temporarily invalid; that is, in line with the previous energy package, and I can't see that it's relevant to Icelanders or the European Union that they will fail until the result is legal and permanent. Mr. President. It needs to be adequately answered whether the European Union's European Commission's head on a cable would allow limitation of exports, as well as the use of such factors against the EU's approved implementation programme. Where does the authority limit European institutions in this matter like ACER? Do we know exactly how they will exercise their authority, e.g. After 10 years? Remember, it is the European Union itself that makes judgments, not Iceland. It has been mentioned in this discussion that we need not worry about a cable that would be placed in Britain because Britain is disappearing from the European Union or at least ... tryingtodoit. No one knows how the relationship between the British and the European Union with energy develops in the future. This does not know the government groups nor do those that support this proposal. Whatever the case, you should be surprised to learn that the relationship has an opinion on such a cable. Bear in mind that a sea cable has been drawn to Iceland on a map and is an important project in the European Union's infrastructure program. The map was drawn and stamped in Brussels. This would have been done only by the consciousness of the Icelandic government or by their request. þm. Björn the Leví of Gunnar spoke here in the hall. [[Request.]] Mr. President. I would like to agree only with a joint declaration by the secretary of state and the Commission of energy. The declaration shows the value of the third energy package to Iceland. Bear in mind that this is a declaration that may not have any value at all for e.g. Justices in case of such a situation. The declaration states that a large part of the third energy package, which is involved in the trade and infrastructure of electrical energy across borders, is of no value or practical significance to Iceland while there is no electronic cord. Then add: ▪ If there is a future framework for crossborder design, the EFTA (EU) centre has a decision-making authority on cross-border issues rather than ACER. This confirms that a cross-border energy policy will be established in Europe and in the EEA sector, the EFTA monitoring centre grants to Iceland. Let us not forget that EFTA does not belong to the Icelandic government, and few will forget that this same surveillance agency found out in the Icesave issue that the Icelanders broke the law by refusing to pay the debt of private banks to the Icelandic taxpayers. This same institution went into a lawsuit with Iceland and lost it as we all know it. If we continue to analyze this joint declaration by the secretary of state and the European Commission of Energy, they will say: The European Union's third energy package has no influence on the European Commission over Iceland's energy resources and on the decision-making and management of the European Union. The EU's internal energy market is at the mercy of the Icelandic government. If we compare these two statements, we will see them as conflicting materially. The first states that issues relating to marine cables and cross-border access of energy workers fall under the EFTA or ESA. It's an independent Minister's office in Iceland. The second statement states that the European Union's internal energy market is full of the European Union's decision options for electrical cables between Iceland and the European Union's internal energy market. So these two statements contradict the contradiction. Mr. President. It is said that the poet Einar the son of Benediktsson sold the northern lights. Now there is no direct record of the fine story or legend, but Einar was a salesman of God's grace and well - believed, in an effort to sell the northern lights. Today, tourism companies sell northern light travel to tourists as never before. Thus, what was so absurd has not long ago become a lucrative business. A cable will follow the third energy package because the European Union will be crucial to extending clean energy. Pure energy will not be available in the European Union in the years to come. Thus, access to cleaner energy will be of great value to the European Union. By bringing in the third energy package, Iceland is about to take the step to the full and put a cable on it. This will not happen on the day following an independent party, a forwarding party, greens, solids, and revereds have brought the matter into opposition to the majority of the people and in opposition to their supporters. It will happen, and not within so many years. It took ten years for the European Union to bring raw European meat into our clean and delicate agricultural markets, of course, with the help of the stakeholders, the company of employers and trades and services in Iceland. They were not taken into account by the people's health and terrors of pure livestock. Of course, it will be the same way when it comes to a cable. There will be Icelandic stakeholders who will stress the fact that the sea cables are going to be laid, the whole principle is set in motion, the General has introduced it in 2019, and we have to make good use of it because it has so much to pay for pure energy. The reason is that it is so profitable for Icelandic society. As a result, Iceland's electricity to households and businesses will be increased, and ultimately our speciality, our vital quality of life, the cheap energy available to homes and businesses, will be gone. What a quality of life it is to have inexpensive energy in a oppressive land! The European Union has a powerful rule of action when it comes to reducing the pollution of the atmosphere and in its leading countries. Substantial emphasis is laid on reducing fossil fuels incineration. The European Union is in a position of one major challenge to import half the energy it consumes at the same time as the reduction in fossil fuels in the world. Thus, the Union's superpower dreams will not be able to obtain clean energy. The European Union is expected to be dependent on the high energy import in the future. Industrial minister has claimed that a cable will not come. That is an unrealistic claim by a minister. It is just like that, saying that the telephone would never be in the country. In the words of the Industrial Minister, there is a great lack of appreciation for the European Union and its decision on the matter. The challenges that the relationship faces in the coming years of energy are great, the challenges it will face. That's why, the kind of terror that the government and their support groups have claimed, that the EEA Convention will even be canceled if we don't accept the third energy package, completely out of the question, by my opinion. The opinion that the Ministry of State has bought from the former EFTA judge that the EEA contract could be upset is legal. This is to be considered the last of the ruling parties in the case, and they have been very flaunting it. It's not political. The political thing is that the European Union won't confound us because it doesn't serve their interests. The European Union is eager to keep us good, eager to remain in the European Economic Area, simply because they are fully aware that we will be more valuable to them each year. In the words of the Industrial Minister, the Minister also means praising the sleeve of other political groups who have fallen free of criticism from the third energy package and agree to it. Some of those who did so before the matter was presented, and the documents came to light. In the Council of Europe and the Council No. 713/2009, one of the data supplied with a three-pack of energy, can be accessed on the Generalist web site, includingUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The Member States shall work closely together to remove business barriers through electrical energy and natural gas across borders in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. It cannot be clearer, Mr. President, to remove obstacles. Now, the main argument of those who support this case is that the matter is not as strange as it sounds to us, they are saying that there will be a law that will not be laid here without the approval of the General Assembly. I don't think it's necessary to dig deeply into the situation to see that when the European Union needs more clean energy, which will not be in the long run, the legislation of the Generals, the prohibition of a cable, the next of which may be considered as an obstacle to business through electrical energy on the European Union and thus a violation of the EEA Convention. At that time, the European Union will enter a key position, the relationship will simply put us against a wall: you open up a cable or we'll cancel the EEA contract. First, however, they need to make sure that everything will be ready for the cable by ensuring that a three energy package is created. This case will be very much like the meat matter so called, I dare assert it here. We set a freezing law on raw meat because we didn't want to import raw meat from the European Union. This threatens our clean agriculture, our fragile livestock stocks, as well as our public health issues. It took interesters in Iceland and the European Union ten years to break the walls we had set up. I predict a similar situation with the cable, it will not be realized within that long period of time. Mr. President. I'd like to take a little closer to the warning about the energy package that the government is so pleased with in my next speech. So I wish to be put back on the rosary where I see that my time is nearing its end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u348	Mr. President. The facts are good. An internal energy market in Europe today is based on free exchange by electrical energy between countries. It is said that we know exactly where to go with Europe's internal energy market. Now I'm asking why. A senator: Where does that lead out? Can he direct us to where that course is to be found? It is also said that the Power Institute is being transferred under foreign authority. Now, the Power Institute has about a dozen roles by law. One of them, surveillance, will become an independent unit with the third energy package. How does it rhyme with the fact that Ennis is being brought together as a whole under foreign control? And finally, maybe. A senator pointed out one or more examples of ACER being involved in the provision of energy sources in any EU country or EEA country, or ordered cross-country, e.g. A cable? They are quite widespread in Europe. It would be nice to have a clear answer, not to some legal discourse, but to the question of how the policy of internal markets, which is to be some kind of market, about the Power Institute, is taken under foreign control. Most important, where has it been that ACER was involved in any country's energy production or cross-country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u349	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it is relatively easy to approach European energy policies. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator also knows it quite well, and it attracts the market, that the whole area will become a market area, as well as cleaner energy. [[I will.]] [[Up front.]] This was my theme of this talk to a considerable part, giddy. A senator, to the European Union, has the problem of being one of the superpowers that do not have access to abundant clean energy. There is, however, one positive thing about the European Union, which is the struggle for climate change. They may have done quite well in this regard. But the point is that they need clean energy, in principle, the European Union's policy of shifting to clean energy. Since then, the pure energy will come, and that is why I expressed my concern that they would be very interested in getting clean energy from Iceland. I'm not saying they're gonna force us into some kind of action here, but we know the market situation. When pure energy becomes so valuable, the stakeholders will start and speak for us selling clean energy from Iceland, and we will be ready to go. This energy package is then introduced and fully equipped in the element. I think it's just common sense that tells us how things are going to develop. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u350	Mr. President. I've got to feel bad. A member of the Parliament with a generous answer because it is claimed that ACER has the authority to reduce energy resources from countries. That's it. I asked about Power Institute. There was no answer. I asked an example of how ACER has exercised this authority. There wasn't any answer there either. Then I'm gonna come up with a new question. A cable will come, says why. A senator with up to religious prophesying. Then I ask, "What in ACER's sources can drum the law and order in Iceland because of the sea cable in Iceland or Iceland?" What in the literature of ACER can drum up laws and rules in Iceland in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u351	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. He is talking about ACER in these subjects and how ACER can embalm Icelandic songs, as he put it. We have discussed the legal advance mentioned in the report. It will come, for example. in the opinion of Skúli Magnússon that there are a lot of requests to do so, or if there is any interest in getting a cable from here, we have to face up to the fact that according to the EEA Convention we might have to grant them our wishes. [[The president calls.]] It's an opinion from a scholar and a what. A senator can read this in the reviews received to the Foreign Affairs Committee. [[The president calls.]] I, of course, rest my burden on it, as men have, including directors, stress that we should listen to scholars. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u352	A respectable president. ▪ Support without criticism was an initial word. Senator. There is little that gives me greater satisfaction than saying how wrong independence is. You can be sure that I'm also looking for that in this matter, as if I were looking for a misinformation in the middle-class case and, as it were, all the other classes. The matter definitely does not depart from the Pirates through the council. Wherever we find it, we criticize what is critical. There's a lot of criticism in this case. Senator. Here's a good list I scraped down. Hv. A senator spoke of the implementation of 2003 and the increase in 2005 energy prices. I can't quite get the connection. This energy package is said to have no value and no impact in Iceland. There are plenty of points in this package that have a positive effect on Iceland, including consumer security, full-time services, energy security, and the national programme to be done. One reason is that the EEA is in danger. No, I mentioned more arguments and a lot better for shooting this package. It is said that the European Union makes judgments, not Iceland. - No, it's not true either. Finally, it would be the probable EFTA Court that would make some judgments. There was another thing about the bad EFTA in the Icesave case, but it was probably the best EFTA Court in Icesave after all. It's kind of weird. Convinced Declarations? - Iceland makes the rules. There's nothing more complicated than that. The EU needs green energy to be maintained. - Yeah, that's right. The energy we have here would last for some one and a half million people - 800 billion investments, which is just crazy. The consequences must be increased to the homes. - How do you get a what? A senator out of it? I don't understand how he gets it. If anything is, major companies may rise. That's more like what I get out of it because it's the ones who are getting energy at the cost and who need to find out what they're paying for. Other companies could come and say, "Hey, we'd like such a good deal too, etc. More later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u353	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of this swift passage. Apparently, he tried to put it together in a brief summary I told him. But that was a bit of a shoddy to him. Hv. A senator did not fully understand when I spoke of an increase in electrical prices for the house - to - house heating of the Southnes heat system when a pack of energy was introduced. The law went into effect in the mid - 2004's, and these increases came for years. There's nothing unnatural about that. I would like to refute the claims of a few members of the council here that power prices to homes have not been raised by the induction of a energy package alone. It's just a lie a couple of senators came to my attention. The point is that house - to - house power prices were raised. At that time, the Southnesia was at the time with a special agreement with homes in cold areas that would pay the same as if they had a heating system. When the law went into effect, i.e. When the induction of a single energy package went into effect, this company was forbidden to subsidize the electricity. That's the case. And the spores scare these substances. It is right to keep that speech in its place because it is very important. Then went the other way. A senator in a wide field. I'm especially glad that Piratars are holding up a critical case in this matter. Well, I've not quite heard of it, but I see rather that some Porita's senators had particularly pointed their spears to members of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u354	A respectable president. That's because I criticize what I think is critical. Hv. I guess a senator knows a house warmer law. Well, you see, something changed, you can't afford someone to take such an injury. Everyone must be equal to the table. On the other hand, the user can choose from whom he or she buys services. Of course, the electrical price for the Southnes heat system goes up. She was going to sell at the time, wasn't she? It was far more profitable to have a higher currency and to sell on a much higher price, full of possibilities. There's something else I was going to get to. It was about removing obstacles. It took ten years to take the frozen duties, but they were just an unfair obstacle. There are more of these, and we would remove unreasonable obstacles that contribute to isolation. That everything's ready? You see, it's all there is to it now. You can park a cable now and it would only be worse now if something was wrong than if we were to accept the third energy package, based on the criteria and the rules we have to take after that induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u355	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I was a little surprised at what I heard. A senator, that he wouldn't have any particular concern that the power rose there to house warming in the Southnesian hosting area at the induction of a pack of energy alone, it would just be normal for that to happen. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] We've got to figure that out, huh? Senator, that these users had a special contract that Southnesja was required to maintain. However, it was no longer possible because it was banned by law, according to a decree issued by the European Union. I'm asking why. Senator: What is it about the European Union that companies drain electricity to house warming in Iceland, our oppressive country? So to me, it has nothing to do with anything. Therefore I say, The track is afraid in these things. We'll see the consequences of a particular case I've been following here. Then we are faced with the prospect of selling electricity to Europe through a cable, perhaps 10, 12, 15 years from now. It only applies to the market law. The best paying is the most natural client, and the electrical price will rise. It's just a matter of the law of goods, services, demand, etc. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u356	Mr. President. I'll try to do my part so that the people at home and the people here can enjoy this discussion and therefore will not overexpensively extend it with this counter. I heard it coming from a talk. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, intended to consider the warning in his second speech. I assumed, given where he ended his talk, that he would rather use the opportunity in his second speech to analyze the details of a pack of three energy that he thinks is treacherous or dangerous because he did not do so in his first speech. Perhaps he can use this time in return to tell us what point it is in a pack of three that he really worries about, if he could give an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u357	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yeah, I can give you a few examples. I think it's perfectly clear, and it has been shown in expert opinion that the government does not choose the best solution in this case. There is one important thing. There is a problem with the government's choice. That's for sure. This is also shown in a specialist list.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u358	What are some of these?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u359	To me, the program was to activate the 102rd st. in the EEA Convention, take this into account for the European Commission and get a conclusion that will hopefully be positive for us and the lasting solution. It's not done. I believe there is a fault of this proposal and this treatment and of the government's lawsuit not to do it. I believe that the consequences of implementing this energy package without permanent exception will, in time, be that energy in the country becomes more expensive to homes and businesses, thus reducing our quality of life. There's something I don't want to be involved with. I think it's a very responsible part of the board not to want to go the best way. I have not received convincing support from the government groups why the best solution was not chosen. You wonder, and I mentioned it earlier tonight in an antiquated voice: Is this the political fear of the ruling parties? Why is it not just this legal way that is our right that everyone can enjoy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u360	V.E.G. President. Hv. In his second speech, a member of the body used the answer to discuss the warning that he was going to discuss. But I'm gonna give him another chance to come up here and find out what point it is in a pack of three that he thinks we need to worry about. He did not do so in his speech, he did not mention the details of a pack of three energy that we need to worry about that would lead to the terrible things he is preaching here. He does not mention any of the things we need to worry about. But if he doesn't get it in a minute, which I would understand, since he used these two minutes not in it but in something else, he may soon be able to enter it in his second speech. But that was exactly my question. The question was: What are its features in a pack of three o'clock energy? A senator is concerned about, which is contained in a pack of three energy, not in a pack of energy one or two or somewhere else, but in exactly what we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u361	Like what? A senator, and I thank him for the answer, is laying the basis for us to participate in the joint European market on the electricity market. Isn't that right, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u362	What are the points that you are concerned about?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u363	That's exactly what I'm worried about, that the soil is being prepared by means of this rule. Then we're getting involved in this common electrical system when the cable comes. [[Up front.]] And he's coming. He'll be here. Everything's ready, all ready to go. Once the cable has arrived and we start selling electricity to this common area, we know the consequences. They become the electricity for homes and businesses in the country, making them rise. It's just the law of the market, the supply and demand. It's simple. Sports scare these things, as I've mentioned. Energy pack one made house warming electrical prices increased, etc. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's simple, but... Senator. We are taking the step slowly into this common market system. It's something I don't like. It just doesn't apply to our situation here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u364	V.E.G. President. I'd like to take a minute to tell you what we're talking about here, the electronics in Iceland. During the 1960's, Iceland's inhabitants undertook extensive electrical projects. Then the nation set out to invest in activations and distribution systems that cost a lot of money and work to secure national and national and international electricity. Also to attract foreign companies and investments and to create European jobs for the future. It was then clear that the investment would not return to the nation at that point but in the future. It's at that point we're now. Land activation was founded on July 1, 1965, if I'm correct, to keep track of that national investment. Our programming now gives us a profit of about a year. One hundred and fifty thousand billion dollars. Each year, and according to the director of the company, the company can make money for the government budget of some 110 billion dollars. over the years, it was 2,20226. Such funds can be used to pay off debts, to reduce taxes, to invest in infrastructures that certainly are not unnecessary. Why am I bringing this up? Yes, because the induction of the third energy package will follow the separation of energy companies, companies such as Land induction, and the requirement will likely be divided into smaller units in the name of markets, followed by markets in order to achieve the EU target of energy. Among other things, on the European Union's internal markets and types, they are primarily dependent on the Marketing and competitive factors and the equal bioavailability and market in electrical and geological exchanges. Furthermore, the third energy directive goes further to promote an active electricity market by ensuring the separation of the ownership of market transport systems and the supply of electrical monitoring through various measures - this is somewhat open - and its independence. How would it be proper to interpret such a declaration? I can only understand the need for an active market, and the next, it is certain that, as in the case of national inactivation, 80 constitutes a market monopolitanization or a non- English - speaking English language. According to Regulation 713/2009, however.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The Member States shall, not be, closely working together and removing business barriers through electrical energy and natural gas across the border in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. The evaluation of the impact of a central institution revealed that independent central institution had long considered many benefits to be superior to other options. The European Commission shall set up a European Commission on energy market to improve the Community legislation on the field of Community legislation and contribute to the efficient activities of the internal market for electricity and natural gas. The Agency shall also enable national surveillance authorities to expand their cooperation at the Community scene and participate in a mutually linked activities. When this is all over, the profit of our energy resources will flow to private, domestic, or foreign people, not to future generations. That's what I'm worried about. Here, a social treaty made it possible for us to build this system, and then it would make a fortune for the nation. I think this is one of the reasons why there is a measure of fear in society and disagreements, that these matters are different from what was originally expected. At present, the nation is about 80 to 90% of the productions of pure energy, an enormous demand for and will only increase. It is important to recognize our unique position in Iceland, where we produce the energy. We own the resource, and we're consumers. We have authority over it. In contrast, in most parts of Europe, where the power plant is usually in private property and the largest part of it does not produce what we call pure energy. Most of the electricity is produced to form coal burns, nuclear energy, oil or natural gas, i.e. fossil fuels. The loss of electricity is stable in Iceland, and the cost of electricity is stable and low compared with other European countries, not much of a problem. We can produce more pure electricity than we do now, which could attract a foreign investment, which would produce well - paying jobs, and the production level would turn to Iceland. We are jealous of this situation, and although I am responsible for the use of natural resources, it is important to pay attention to Icelandic nature, which is sensitive and undeniably dangerous in the process of activation. In the synonym, it is requested by the General Assembly that it agree with the induction of the third energy package, in other words the State's exposition to the European Commission, all in the name of equations and consumer protection in Europe, but not in Iceland. What is it in a pack of three energy that is so desirable for us Icelanders? Are we ensuring good electricity for Icelandic and Icelanders, located in Iceland? Are we ensuring further control of the resource? Are we ensuring future generations from the resource and the standard of living? Or is it something else, some other interests for the people I don't see? Could it be that someone other than the nation is being given a real interest and a long future that will result in success at the expense of our Icelanders? Is it possible to ensure the competitiveness of industrial companies in central Europe with an increasing proportion of green energy and a decrease in the proportion of fossil fuels? Could it be that the samurai method is making sure that we remove a cut of autonomy and authority to Brussels until we are, against the nation's will, to the point where we may as well enter the European Union? Or are these my questions merely nonsense and nonsense that reflect spiritual poverty and poverty and platilism? Or is it perhaps more likely that the popeism would be the rest of those who rowed toward Brussels? Here are many comments from the Allegorium on fallacy and fallacy. Whether members of the Middle Party are concerned with fear that is not already there. At the same time, there is a majority opinion that announces the eulogy proposal. The minister of state is accepted by legal warnings, which no one, I know, has seen, or knows whether they exist, let alone the preconceived men have been seen. Is it any wonder, then, that people are unsure whether everything here is going to be taken care of? Is there any wonder that people ask themselves? Is it not otherwise true that about 70% of the clients who were allowed to appear to a foreign press committee were presented at the source of the energy package, or as it was laid down? In our earlier spring study of Machine, a majority of the subjects said that they were opposed to the induction of a three - pack of energy. The Parliamentary decree says, with the permission of a president: It is suggested that the General home of the Government to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA on the basis that no cross-border infrastructure is currently available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including the Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 to establish the energy market Cooperative Education Agency, is therefore inappropriate and does not have a reasonable relevance to the country's environment. - Still, there's a warning. This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced into Icelandic correctly but legally warned that the basis for transporting electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets will not be established or estimated unless the exception of a review on the legal basis of this Regulation - the exception means that it is to occur first, not after, that the exception of the European Union's reviews - ~and its obligations regarding cross-border connections will not be carried out until this review is concluded. It will also be considered even further and specifically at the Generals field whether its introduction in these circumstances harmonizes with the Icelandic constitution. Where is the legal guardian? It's been asked several times today. One explanation why. A member of the director's staff was that he was, in fact, verbal statements. Another explanation was that the legal guardian is in the Congress resolution. The third explanation - and all of this from the directors - was that it is drawn in a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws, No. 65/2003, where the warning is at 1. par.:................................ according to the government's policy on the structure of electricity transport systems. The Thirteenth. That's not right. The Minister will present the criteria that are proposed to be approved on the Parliamentary decree before we accept it? Isn't it just starting at the wrong end? We're talking about the quality of our work and our credibility here and sitting. I'd think it would be to calm people down if we were to, at least, do it in the right time order. All the discussions that have happened before or that could have been done better, with respect for all the good people who have spent years in the General Assembly - I'm not trying to get into it, I'm just saying that we should always be careful and do as well as possible. In other words, regulations in the Icelandic language should be introduced correctly to check if the constitution is correct. Then later bring the legal warnings that make it legal. But we must insist that this is above all doubt. We must make the requirement, with all due respect for all that has been done so far, that we look for any suspicions so that there can be peace. The work being done here is at best due to be done. The man standing here has a number of questions. Council members whether they know the exact amount of legal advance that has been put in place at the introduction of the EEA types and whether such warnings have been held. No one has yet reported such cases except why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, who spoke of temporary advance on labour law. However, they are by no means comparable, since they were temporary. It is evident in the context of the fact that national rights still exist. In view of this, by permission of the president, I would like to quote Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik, Friðriksson of Hirst: It will show up to 8 pars. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: The 713/2009 recording of the EEA Convention and implementing Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. Will then be entrusted with power to make decisions that will bind the Icelandic government to national rights and will at the same time have the most important interest in electronic power companies and the user of the electronic energy system directly and indirectly. The Agency would also have a significant impact on ESA decision content. In view of the nature and input of the power for ESA, of Article 8. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2990, the authors of the opinion team believe that the power agency will go beyond the terms of the Constitution under the current circumstances and the terms of the EEA Convention [...] include that ESAs are not well understood and defined in Regulation No. 713/2009...◯ The order of time is simply wrong in this case. V.E.G. A minister wants a party of the Generals to introduce a three-way energy package with appropriate regulations, but at the same time reject a part of the company's warning that is being called emergency inhibitors, because this is one of the two proposed ways, to do less and double than is needed, since it is not possible to take sides in the synonym until it is established. You can't ask people to do that. Of course, we Icelanders want to be a nation among nations and to participate in international treaties and cooperations, international trades. There's been one thought of it amongst us since the beginning, that I think. But it is relatively new that we want to hand over to the nation's self - control and authority authority for future generations - or for what purpose? Would anyone have thought of handing over our authority over the fishing grounds and the using of fish stocks, using that in Icelandic rights, to see if there was a constitution? No, of course not. We fought a war to expand the economic law and to keep our rule over the crops around Iceland. This was done, using proben, on grounds of sustainable use. They put nature in the wind, as it should be here. Why has this synopsis proposed? Why don't we just refuse to do this in this way and send the case back to the EEA joint committee? That is in harmony with the agreement we are in. This is a contract between us and other countries. We're part of that deal, just like everyone else. It is not surprising if there is something that needs to be said or something that needs to be considered more carefully when applying the relevant counsel and contract. That's the way you expect to go. It's not part of the EEA Convention that if we don't agree with anything we're bringing in, we're going to put on legal notice, whatever they are, and then we're gonna expect the deal to continue. We have the opportunity to create the knots so that we do not violate our authority over the resource. Why does the government, in opposition to the majority of the people, want to go this way? I don't have the answers, but I'd love to get them. So far, I have not heard or read about the benefits of this induction. The discussion goes on and on. about two solutions. The first solution I came into is to refer the case to the joint EEA committee. After the declarations that have been made, or given to a prime minister, or compared to the warnings made by the government on this council resolution - and people have striven to come up to a platform and to state that we all agree that this is the case - why should it put us in some political uncertainty? Because this has not been done for 25 years? The evidence has been made that humans agree completely that we have a special status and that we do not need to place a cable on which Regulation 713/2009 is concerned and the warning is being given. All I've heard about people is that they're completely alone here, both in the EU and in the European Union, that they're happy with this. Wouldn't it be just as good to have it scratched in a rock, like it's already on the street? I would think so. However, the second solution could include, by permission of the president: ... that a third pack of energy will be introduced into Icelandic correctly but legally noted that its directives for cross-border structures, e.g. Section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, without value, such building blocks are not meant to leave here. The premise of this solution would be that the third energy package does not add obligation to Iceland to set up groundworks, but is a matter of making a firm decision on Iceland's custody, so here it is whether or not the Regulation will put up with this obligation, but it needs to be prevented. If Iceland made a decision to build a framework across borders, the third energy package's directives on cross-border infrastructure would be reexamined, including depending on whether or not they fit in with the constitution. This solution, however, is not flawless.◯ My conclusion is that I wholeheartedly agree with the government. [[The president calls.]] It's too far. This cannot be introduced, but I suggest that the matter be canceled, anyway, before a decision is reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u365	Mr. President. I listened attentively to a talk. A senator where he even speaks. for the fear of power and authority in society that it moves to some other people from the common people. It's fear I share. It's fear I think most people share. I don't think there are many people here at the council who are not worried that such an arrangement will take place. But yet, no one has pointed me in any clear way, in any way over my head, on one law, one letter in the third energy package, indicating that such transfer will take place. I'm going to get to object as long as I can. On the contrary, a senator said that there may be some spiritual poverty. I think that's what. A senator may be a great rationalist, but I cannot help but wonder what causes the reasoning of experts, lawyers, other experts from around here, and from where they have been, it is not enough to convince them. A senator to tell you this is true. I understand fully not to rely on political campaigns, but when neutral experts in the community agree on these things, why is that not enough? Is there some sort of fundamental discrepancies in the way we understand things? Or is it supposed to be some stated or uninformed beat to withdraw from all reasoning and then point out the existence of resources, despite the fact that it is not supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u366	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy query and warm words to me, pleasant. Perhaps part of what's going on here is that we're not getting the same picture. Perhaps the reason for my position is that my background always prepares for the worst but hopes for the best of the work I do. First of all, I may have been the reason why my language is the same as he is. Scholars who clearly stand in the process of interpreting regulations or laws have warned that a possible transfer of power into the induction of the third energy package would suggest that it is not being introduced differently than putting certain defenses against it. That's where I'm thinking about the constitution. We are not in the same position as many other countries, especially Scandinavian countries, where countries can be committed to a political office with increasing political support, i.e. not clean any more. And I don't see any better than we're all here in this room, whether we've already spoken or against this energy package, agree that the third energy package cannot be introduced unchanged. There has to be a warning here, a comment must be made to the actions, either by legal recommendations, by going to the EEA joint committee. I kind of think we agree on that. However, some may have brought up the possibility that there is no danger in bringing in this energy package without any action. [[The president calls.]] Then perhaps it is right to come up here and tell them plainly that people are ready to do so. I'm not sure that all council members are willing to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u367	Mr. President. Yeah, maybe. I'll tell you what, I think we can skip these notices, and I've heard more senators say it. I think these models are good. They don't cost us anything, they're designed to calm many people who would otherwise not be calm, that's just the best. I still feel like we're moving the goalposts again. Now, this isn't the first time we've had a limited exercise of power, and I say limited because by the end of the day, it's always an institution that belongs to us, the EFTA Center, which has the authority to declare it. We're actually moving from one pocket to another. We did this about the European Bank Control Agency, the European Social Security Agency, the European Social Security Agency and the European Protection Agency. This is a model that we've been using for a very long time, and it's worked really well. This is a model that satisfies our need to protect our independence and right to control our own interests at the same time as we move closer to Europe regarding legislation and then have rich access to the European Union's inner market. I think it's a really good arrangement. First of all, there is virtually no power promotion for just that in advance. Second, under no circumstances are we talking about the power supply of the resources. What we're talking about is one very specific incident that is that if there's a sea cable between our country and another country then the agency, the EFTA monitoring department, the decision of any conflict that arises between the countries, to affect the cable and nothing else. [[The president calls.]] I just don't understand how we can say again and again that it's about our energy resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u368	V.E.G. President. Yeah, you're right next door. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy and the more I think about it, I don't think he's the only one who's been standing here in a pit and saying that all the agents in charge could be dropped and brought straight into the Icelandic rights. However, this goes contrary to what certain scholars have said and, as I say, I am a deputy who is not covered by experience here at the Council and I don't think I know better than they do. Of the fact that something was done in the past in a certain way, I can't express myself about it because I wasn't a part of it. While I'm sitting here and doing what I have, I'm going to fight for the fact that my work is as good as I think they can be. If it were incorporated like this, it would be a violation of a constitution according to the opinion of our most skilled men. These specific men, Stefán-Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst, are the men chosen by the government to support the Council's resolution. The induction of the warnings needs an opinion, i.e. The defenses of the induction operation need to be legal. We need to see who they are. I want to see who the warnings are, and I want to take a stand for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u369	We've been...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u370	As I previously mentioned in my talk, three different locations have been referred to as to who these legal warnings are. It won't calm me down. I want to see the lyrics that show us how this is going to be introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u371	A respectable president. Hv. A senator insisted that those who supported the case feel that the opposers are quick to reason and that they do not. This may be understandable, since there are a number of facts at all that are not true in the minority view. They've been driven over and over again, and they have no support in the third energy package, but they may be an excellent tool for a discussion of Iceland's energy policy. Hv. A senator asked if the third energy package is securing safe energy to the public. Yes, third energy package contains clear guidelines for ensuring consumers to have access to secure energy at competitive prices, to protect sensitive consumers and specifically specify that group. It also points out that competitive laws apply to the third energy package. It's simply wrong. They already apply to energy, and this does not happen with the third energy package. Then he points to Machine's survey that a large percentage of them are opposed to the third energy package. No, it wasn't asked about the third energy package. It was asked if the people wanted to increase power to European countries and it's not done with the third energy package. These are things that I wanted to start by mentioning here, even though I could go in on many others. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into the exercise of power because I didn't think it was clear enough: Does he not believe that there is a power act only if we associate with each other and that ESA can intervene if there is a conflict between Member States and men disagree on the results of connections between countries? Is it not the only power supply that is included in the third energy package, which will be discussed here and specifically discussed by the Constitution? Today, we have gone further in the way that the financial system and other things that are believed to go much farther. In fact, the warning we have today is because we're not connected, that there will be no power supply because of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u372	V.E.G. President. Yes, in terms of the exercise of power, it is very clear in the opinion of qualified and noted scholars that the introduction is taking a longer course than it is safe to say that there is no conflict with a constitution. That's why, exactly, I'm worried about the case. Because that's what they say. This has been repeated over and over again by the rest of the case, that the defences are put in place because we ourselves intend to determine whether any of the infrastructure across the border will be left unattainable. The third energy package is a power service to the head of the board, is it? So what? A senator still says that she was ready to introduce him without warning, which is a violation of the Constitution, according to scholars'opinion. This is what it's all about, that's why I'm taking this stand. For my part, these legal orders are explained. In a speech or two. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was referred to a bill as a song for changing electricity laws, but the change is extremely cheap and hardly a failure to keep the constitution - ◯fer according to government policy on the building of electricity transport systems, which is then only once. We could be with another government after a week, that's why, I'm not wishing it, I pray for the government, of course. That, however, is a reality that we watch, and that government could take a completely different course. There could be right polepers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u373	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator considers all the power to violate a constitution, we could not be party to any international agreements. It is not possible to place the same symbol between the exercise of power and the violation of a constitution. A power exchange is hidden in the personal law, the financial legislation, NATO, all kinds of international contracts. I could take all my time here to count it up. It doesn't match any sign. It should be clear that all scholars, except those who wrote the opinion referred to by the Middle Class, insist that there is no violation of the constitution without the premise. The third pack of energy is not a violation of a constitution without the lead. That is also the investigation of the Ministry and the government. You can study a memo that comes with the Senate resolution. In fact, they were scholars. Congress officials make the most of their opinion that, in accordance with the Constitution, there is no legal doubt that this is in accordance with the Constitution. There's a client's explanation, and it's done in addition. Not because we think it's necessary, but because we see these signs and we take them seriously. I wanted to point this out. I also wanted to point out the legal recommendations. There will be talk of a senator. It's not like they'll be back later. The proposed conjugal proposal is an expeditation of administrative orders from the council, allowing the government to reverse governmental warnings. Then, with the premise defined in a paper, the government will lift governmental premonitions, as the synopsis states. The Conspiracy proposal is not to be lifted on a governmental notice but, rather, a warrant from the council to the government. The government, in turn, will suggest an introduction rule which includes this and then immediately; it will not come later. [[The president calls.]] It is the real reduction of governance notices and will include the warnings clearly defined in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u374	V.E.G. President. I didn't talk about all the authority, I didn't say that. I talked about this and I'm gonna stick with it. It is clear that when we are quoting these two qualified individuals, who are lawyers, it is the same people as the government or the highest. The minister of foreign affairs points to back up the Council's decree as it is made. [[Up front.]] Why should it be strange for us to talk about them and their feelings? In view of the fact that there is no legal question, if this is introduced in this way, it is out of the question that it will not be introduced until these laws have been established. If I understand why. A senator corrects this arrangement as a premonition of the government. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator said so. If I miss it, I apologize. It's lifted on the administrative notice, which means it's the induction. [[Up front.]] - Right on. It's the induction. We're giving the warrant to introduce something before we get this warning. We don't have them. The scheme is not a law, is not a legal one. You do not recite the synonym when there is a disagreement about the European Economic Area or the contract that we are part of, waving it and saying, "Here it is. It's crystal clear. I think we should stick to trying to do this as well as possible. And in order to get this out of the way, it has to be that they are credible. Unfortunately, I feel, and speak for myself, they don't be it in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u375	A respectable president. When I was forced to complete my speech during the first speech due to a lack of time, I had not finished reviewing the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department, and I intend to continue on that tour, starting with the chapter on leave. There are a number of cases where countries receive annulled by the EEA Convention. Iceland has a way of making an exception on canals and railroads, and they don't apply in this country. As for energy, there is no record of its export from Iceland of natural gas. It should therefore not be given as a reference to electricity on the same basis when an alternative is established. In view of the unambiguous interest available and the court-sure that would follow the recording of the third energy package in the EEA Treaty and the introduction in Icelandic correctly in the way mentioned in the synonym, it must be considered even more important than before Iceland follows the proposal of Stefánsson Már and Friðrik the Árni Hirst, seeking to obtain further resources for the joint EES Committee. The chapter that bears the heading Forebears. It refers to the prerogatives established by the government in this case, calling them in advance. The opinion of the Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni warns against the trial in doubt about the administrative value of the third energy package. The government aims to introduce a third energy package into Icelandic rights with the one-sided warning that the directives are not being carried out in this country while the country is an unplugged EU electricity market. As noted in the case of Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson for the committee is a warning such as these are reserved only for homebits but have no national value. Therefore, they are not relevant in the event of a judicial hearing on the basis of the rights given by the Regulation. In the opinion of Stefán Már and the Friðrik of the Árni, it was made clear that the European Commission's decision to the European Commission is, in turn, bound to national rights to fully introduce the third energy package into Icelandic right with the adaptations laid down in the decision. I'm going to repeat this, a respectable president: It has been observed that Iceland will remove national rights from the European Commission's decision to implement the third energy package properly with the adjustment required for the decision. All restrictions and adaptations will be negotiated at the centre of the Joint EEA Committee. One - sided warnings are of no value to national rights. One - sided warnings do not apply to national rights, and there are no precedents for setting such one - sided warning to Member States of the EEA Treaty. I think is a reason to repeat this sentence, a respectable president: One - sided warnings do not apply to national rights, and there are no precedents for setting such one - sided warning to Member States of the EEA Treaty. The implementation of the EEA Convention is based on a consistent induction within the entire EEA. The role of ESAs is to monitor the EFTA countries within the EEA, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, to respect their commitments under the EEA Convention. This means that ESAs closely monitor the implementation of EU types to national level. If ESAs believe they have not been correctly introduced, ESAs can aim for the EFTA Court on the basis of incorrect induction. There is no need to look beyond the judgment of the EFTA Court in the combined cases E-2-317, where ESAs were headed for Iceland due to the incorrect import of raw meat. And if there's time, a respectable president, I'll discuss it here just a little bit more when I've finished reviewing the minority opinion of the State Department. It is difficult to throw away any wrong induction in this case, but it is clear that substantial amounts of money are involved. If Iceland is obliged to cancel the above notice on the basis of incorrect induction, the third package's regulations are being carried out. In the opinion of the Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni, they warn that the release of Iceland's administrative notice on the decision made by the joint EEA committee, Iceland, at the same time has a national commitment to implementing the Regulation into national rights. Another would be the violation of Iceland's commitments, which could lead to the ESA's appeal of treaties against Iceland. In this context, one - sided warnings cannot be avoided. It also highlights that there is no priors in the Senate arrangement. It will only be mentioned in the report that the proposal shall be agreed on by the Commission Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 713/2009 introduced with legal advance, which is further stated there. On the other hand, the Parliament itself does not mention a single word of this warning. Rather, it focuses only on the creation of the Government's home to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee and enter the contract of the third energy package. Iceland is as bound as it once was to implement the third energy package. Therefore, it is not impossible to ask why the legal guardian was not included in the Congress itself, neither is this legal premise found in any of the drafts, nor in the synopsis proposals presented by travel, industrial and innovation ministers in connection with the third energy package. Thus, it is not simply that the legal guardian has no real value; rather, it is not just how he is spoken. The foreman for whom the proposal for Congress is adopted in the 791st case, of a change in Congress resolution No. 26/148, the government's policy on the construction of electrical energy systems, turns around that the sea cable will not be attacked unless its approval by the Generals. This arrangement is not in accordance with the text of the synopsis as presented here, indicating that the Regulation will be implemented in a legal way that no cable will be laid or planned unless the exception of a review of the legislation on the basis of the Regulation and that it will be considered in particular at the field of the Council whether its implementation in these circumstances conforms to the Icelandic constitution. Unable to accept the synopsis without the legal premise. This is what Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, writes. These cases have, I don't say it's clear, but maybe they've got some more logical support. Then I refer to the last chapter of this minority opinion... in a discussion at the Council today. It was shocking to hear the spokesmen admit that the examples that have been waited for are merely words, a description of this body's interpretation and then the bills. Industrial and innovation and travel secretary, especially the electricity laws. But as it is in the minority opinion, it is little or no part of it. It also came to the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committee that the basis for the way the government puts up with a constitution was that the legal defenses were the law, the induction, not in force. It was noted during discussions with the Committee that the legal guardians had not been published, and the experts called before the committee said that they had not seen them. I haven't seen them, a respectable president. But now in today's discussion it is informed that they do not exist. The term legal warnings refers to a dissociation in a paper with this synonym. This refers to a change in electricity law, which is already in place in the law that the General shall discuss the so-called system plan, i.e. shape a policy into electronics including Through a cable. And as far as legal terms are concerned, the European Energy Director has issued a meeting with the highest power. The minister of the foreign government that Iceland was an island and hence did not apply to such regulations when countries were not connected. In this context, I especially call attention to the way the energy manager's declaration is put. I also call attention to how the same declaration is made by the EEA Committee. This is a very similar statement. It contains only obvious facts, which state that Iceland is an island and that the country has not been connected to the European Union's electronic energy system and therefore does not apply as a set of requirements when the country has been linked to the European Union's electrical system. This may, of course, be the person who tells himself, but it's odd, not to say, that the government should submit such statements, not even putting them forward, but simply to refer to some press releases from the Ministry of State, and to support them as legal warnings that should prevent the introduction of the third energy package include the introduction of the third energy package. However, it is stated in particular that the approach of the government includes the full implementation of the energy package, but it has now been made clear that there will be a legal issue, which I and indeed more believers for some time to be submitted and therefore might have some value, but has been informed that there is no real value, these so - called legal laws are simply a reference to a press release from the State Department and speculations in the press of this resolution by this resolution that the Allied Council will want to deal with the media at the time. A respectable president. This alone must be enough to cause us much anxiety and to be affected, as was called earlier today, so that we pause this discussion to determine whether the government is determined not to offer the legal warnings announced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u376	A respectable president. I'd like to start by going over with the senator how this kind of induction works. He's been a senator longer than I, but it's now a proposal to make a resolution to the removal of administrative notice is permission from the General for the government. Then the government by means of an introduction rule will be able to remove this government's preordained warning. It is done not only by the induction principle but also by the legislation and the interpretation proposals that are laid out by a professional committee. So it's just a curious thing when it's always implied that it's being done afterwards, that it's being concealed. In effect, the way this work works for us is out of the question of how it works in the Senate. The discussion must be in the ditch when the only grip is that this legal warning is not to be found. It is clear that this legal arrangement is on page 18. 3 of the Parliamentary decree, clear. He will be taken into account in the Regulation, which is the implementation principle, where the government's warning will be removed. So I'm going to apologize that I'm going to stay here all night to say this. Then I'll come here again and again with joy to explain this because people have the right to know how it works. That's not what I'm talking about. Because I'm against what. Then I may use this opportunity again and ask him where in the third energy package there is a warrant for breaking up companies like Land activation or other bigger companies. As is true of many others in the minority, it is claimed without saying where and where it is. A senator has not yet been able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u377	A respectable president. I'm not going to say that I know the induction process of every man's best. On the other hand, I'm going to point out that the scholars mentioned earlier, Icelandic, Norwegian, and other, point out that when it comes to implementing the EU Regulation, it takes full effect, and there is little effect on the one - sided declarations. In fact, it does not have to be asked scholars to explain this to us because it is sufficient to learn how the European Union operates, as is only relatively accessible on the EU website, which explains in very clearly how regulations work in the relationship. Would it not be enough to look at the counsel of the scholars or to study simply the rules themselves? It might be interesting to listen to the opinion of politicians who have been longer or started much earlier in this business than I did, to form the assessment of the former head of the Independence Party, former prime minister, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, who explained that this was a praiseworthy deception. True, as I have mentioned before, I do not agree with this former minister that these deceptions are praiseworthy. But he certainly is right about deception. With regard to the second question, why? I have answered her in the latter part of the assembly. It seems to me that the time is at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u378	A respectable president. This is the third time I've asked you why. The Senator to this question, so when I ask this question, please ask him to answer it in the second answer so that I do not need to come to the fifth time. I'm really curious about where this is going. If you read the third energy package, even the article that might be turned out specifically to find out, which is number 37. g., it's not possible to read out because a business can be broken up. I consider this to be one of the factors in the minority of the State Department, which has no support in the third energy package, only to keep something wrong with the public, which often has been answered. With the legal warning, I agree exactly what to say. A senator on how the European Union website works. It's very good how open and transparent it is. It contains, for example, you can study a matter long before it is scheduled. Of course, earlier governments had access to the entire process of the third energy package, and what was being accomplished there. There is nothing to say but that it is very beneficial for senators to learn about it and to be alert and well prepared when cases are in the past in the European Union. It is our most important interest care and interest care that we have just added and that is especially more so in the Foreign Affairs Committee, which was adopted in September. There it is. 2. a process even more defined. I wanted to make it right. I hope so. A senator answers my second question, I'm not going to bring up another person so that the answer to her will definitely find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u379	A respectable president. It's kind of a relief to hear, if I get the sense of it. A senator, at least. A senator constantly restarts the European Union's website to monitor all its antics and be prepared when they know how to run into the shores of Iceland. I could use some of that. So I'll answer a question. A candidate for corporate breakdown is clearly stated in the third energy package that it is, for example, in the third energy package. to enable humans to break up what is called ◯monopolies in English, i.e. dominant company in their area. There is no need to think of this as a question of what might happen, since 2009, when the energy package went into effect in the European Union, the European Union has been trying to use these sources to break up large enterprises on the energy market in France, Germany, Italy. Of course, this was the primary turning point in order to separate production systems and distribution systems, but not just that, it has gone so far that the European Union has sought to establish specific governments, specially developed governments, over certain possessions of these enterprises. Now it may be a worthwhile goal to break up the enterprises involved. However, breaking up land reactivation is not a worthwhile goal. In case of a moment. A senator needs more testimony at times. A senator has informed me that he watches the European websites closely. A senator is to visit the Council of European Energy Relations, an association of the institutions of these countries, and study their role. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u380	Mr. President. All over the world, there is a flash of politics. Politicians who allow themselves to mislead debates and deliberately ignore falsehoods seem to be becoming increasingly relevant, and the rest of them tend to talk down surveillance agencies as well as experts. This situation has been in my mind during the past few weeks and months. That the half-truth and the plain lie are involved in small matters as well as in big matters that the public and the media pass by to save space for big things. But when the lies in small matters gather together, they have achieved their purpose: to create distrust and to crush the Community covenant and the solidarity. The group is made: ▪ wood and you, the two of you. Half - truths also come into play in big matters. Sometimes organizations and experts attempt to react and correct the wrongs, but publishers of the half - truths are often driven by such and frequent problems and are taking the initiative to sow skeptics about professionalism and objective specialists and professionals. This, Mr. President, is now taking place all over the world in the political life, which many have been concerned about. This is why I would like to take to the book About Hard Control, by Timothy Snyder, a historian professor at Yale University, who is specialized in the history of Central and Eastern Europe. He wrote his book with the subtitle '-Tutty lessons that we can learn from the 20th century, in contrast with our good reason. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson touched the book to those who want to study Snyder's suggestions in the English language. Timothy Snyder says even In his work, with president's permission: When you throw the facts to calm, you throw freedom at ease. If nothing is true, no one can criticize authority, for then there is no basis for doing so. If nothing is true, it's all an empty spectacle. As the investigators of totalitarianism have noted, the death of truth takes place in four ways. First, it is open hostility to factual realities that reveal the use of ensuing and lying, as is the case with the facts. Second, it's repeated magic spells, staring at each other without being made up. Third, open - minded confidence in the paradox, in which the unlikely one is promised, is made by his own imagination that the facts, even as if imagined, are modern - day facts. In the last place in the realm, there is a distorted belief, or confirmation, of the dictator that he alone is the Savior. That he alone is right, and he will save the people. He is the answer, and he is the voice. All of this we have in front of us in the history of the world, even in our modern times. We have examples of this in Nazi Germany and among Fascist in Italy. But also in the modern statesman who does not care for the facts, he is promoting more slogans and rousings of his only powerful Redeemer and leader. The Fascists used the radio to spread the message while the modern man takes advantage of the social media and their vast distribution. Now as then, many people confuse the facts with their belief in the unfailing, but often a very frail officer. It is human in itself, especially in complex matters, but it is not necessarily for the benefit of the masses, in the interests of the public. Mr. President. Since I have begun witnessing to Professor Snyder, I would like to report what he says about organizations by permission of a president: Our institutions help us to protect our general well - being. They too need our help. Don't talk about our institutions unless you make them yours by picking up a list for them. Because the institutions do not protect themselves. They fall one by one, unless each one is from the beginning protected. Choose an organization that you care about, a court, a newspaper, a law firm, a labor union, and stand by it. We often assume that institutions must resist anything, even outright attacks. It was the mistake that some German Jews made about Hitler and the Nazis after they formed a government. On February 2, 1933, e.g. one of the principal German Jewish editorials claiming that the Nazis suddenly began to take away German civil rights or to isolate them in the ghetto, or to leave them exposed to the hateful and blood - stricken mob. This seemed to the Jews to be in favor of World War II, but it took less than one year for the Nazis to establish a new system. By the end of 1933, Germany had become a single state, with the muleizing of all the major institutions of society. Why do I pull this out now? Yes, because, as I said at the outset, there is a flash of political importance in many parts of the world, where the misinformation of politicians are commonplace and hardly news. The debate in the underside of the Biffit elections was inconspicuous of facts, or what occurred in certain elements of our good cousin states, Sweden, in the leading election in the last autumn. I'd also like to quote the series of articles by the lawyer Gunnar Dofri Ólafsson. Because as he says, a good cause doesn't need falsehood. He doesn't need half - truths or misinformation. However, he needs to be put forth in an honest and understandable manner, for a good cause is sometimes complex. The words of those that have been given in this regard have all been driven, by national or foreign experts, who, whether immigrants like or not, have no interest in caring for others other than to respect their expertise and take care of their professional reputation. What are these baloney words here? The new third energy package allows for transpiration, as has been claimed? The new third energy package is that foreign wealth laps can flood all over here and take up our energy, as has been claimed? A third energy package is being used to ensure that energy prices for consumers in Iceland are completely up-to-date, as has been claimed? No, Mr. President. No, no, no, no, no, no. Honorable General. The third energy pack is not about any of this. I understand those who initially were concerned about our resources. The tracks are not allowed to scare and our resources, and they are not supposed to be some change from the mixed politics. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that all of us here agree to change our constitution and enter it clearly as the property of the nation and that its resources are not to be handed over. That's why I'm going to fight, and I encourage senators to come along to work with me. To my fearful countries, I would like to say this: Many of our major jurists have confirmed that a third energy package is not about - not at all - about our resources. Nor is there any greater authority there than has been since then. of our fine cooperation in the EEA. We've been involved in such a partnership, whether in human rights, in air security or in financial security, in total comparable cooperation. We have also been involved in this kind of cooperation when it comes to competition. But that is exactly what, for example. is being discussed, increasing the interests of consumers. Likewise, there is nothing in the third energy package that obliges us to privatize our energy companies or to tell us where and when to activate. In this context, as is today's rule, there is nothing in itself that prevents the determination of the sea cables, the privatization of the electricity companies, or the sale of our energy resources because our constitution does not protect us from such activities, to the government's ideals. There's nothing in this third energy package that has nothing to do with this. A third pack of energy does not take the power from us to make a clear provision in the constitution. According to the EEA Convention, the EFTA countries must speak with one voice in the joint EEA committee, which means that the three EFTA countries must agree on a decision before it comes to decision-making. It has also been discussed here that, after approval of the case at the General Assembly, the EU will be approved by the joint EEA committee. This is not true because the same EEA committee has already discussed the situation. However, the EFTA countries and the EU agree on issues like this. It's over. They've been talking in this joint EEA committee. Yet, there has been an urgent reason why we do not try to put this matter on the joint EEA committee. In this context, I'd also like to reiterate that this process involving the third energy package is not a process that just started yesterday. It is not a process that began at the table of Þór Þórðarson's son, the highest. The minister of state, or in a drawer of the Independence Party, rather, has been in preparation for many years, as has been observed, which the most feared approval of this case at the council has been repeatedly informed and even directed. As with any similar case, the EFTA countries have come to an agreement. A discussion with the European Commission has taken place and an agreement on the adaptation text has been established. It is noted that decisions have been made by General Assembly Committees, State Department of State, Professional Affairs, Board of Directors and Boarding Committees. A professional health committee made very comments at the time that were taken into consideration. This was taken into account in the early stages. The government of Iceland has authorized the secretary of state to confirm the decision under administrative orders. The European Commission has requested permission to confirm the Commission's Council of Ministers and the Commission has decided to submit to the Commission. If it's about the future of sovereignty and our constitution, you might have wondered if we should have left this deal out with the EEA deal 25 years ago because there's a special expedite. On that matter, lawyers have discussed many times, saying that there is some expeditation, and we might have put something into the constitution then. The only thing involved in the exposé here is handing out specific sources to the state itself during, for example. In addition to developing, legislators and individuals, the European Economic Guard is involved in the development of both agencies, legislators and individuals. ESAs will not be talking to institutions, lawyers and individuals about our energy. It was accepted without hesitation by the General. The same can be said of expansion due to the European Safety Agency or the European Environmental Protection Agency. For a long time, I've wondered what is so extremely dangerous about cooperation with other countries, cooperation with other countries, that is always about our efforts, and other countries usually come to some conclusion that is in our best interests. For small countries such as Iceland, it can be said that getting legislation in this way, prepared through the EEA Convention, is a little bit like getting a ride with a fully equipped car with a used driver who's on his way. We can talk to the driver and affect the way he handles it, but it would be incredibly fun and useful, I would say, if we were a driver. But because we're not in the European Union, we're not the driver. I'd love to be, but that's different. With regard to this third energy package, the key indicators are to separate the transport system from other operating in energy markets. But Iceland was given an exception from the regulations and advice of itself on how the possession of the Landsnet is ordered. Of course, our decision in the United States is that our nation should always be owned through the state. I'd like to hear from a Middle Class and a woman about it. Do the members of the Central Party agree that our energy companies should be on government property? This will include a third energy package with detailed regulations for the independence of the electronsituary. In this way, it shall be ensured that a surveillance agent, which is an energy agency, is independent of both the market and the government. In this way, the surveillance provider receives new sources to remind and fine a company for violations of the rules and to increase role for consumer protection and monitoring sales and markets. Something I think is just the best. It is also set up by the European Commission of Energy, or ACER, who are expected to assist the legal organisation in their activities and after the events of their coordinated actions. Our energy agency, the Albanian, will participate in ACER activities on behalf of Iceland and take part in the activities of the Chairman of the Agency. ACER will, however, have nothing to say about Iceland, where EFTA countries - yes, you, EFTA, Iceland is EFTA - will provide ESAs, EFTA monitoring department, as always, the limited authority that the ACER has in the EU energy market. So the ACER-Grill, which is marked repeatedly, is not available for us in Iceland. Yeah, you can't forget that when it's IV. The addition of the EEA Treaty, which deals with energy and various sources have warned that if we reject the third energy package, the exports of Icelandic enterprises are very high. In the United States, electronic devices are being produced and sold on the market in Europe on the basis of a law on energy markings and saving goods, and these legislation fall under IV. The addition of the EEA Treaty on energy issues. That's Marel, the Skakki, 3X, Salvaku. Access to EEA's inner market through IV. An appendix is very important from innovation and pioneering in the fields of Icelandic green energy solutions and ingenuity. Is it known to those who fight the third energy package most strongly? Are they aware of the important innovation work taking place in Iceland's energy area? Mr. President. Much power and effort have gone into discussion and discussion about the third energy package, which is, of course, the best. I wish we were putting as much energy and energy into discussion about issues that will have a much greater impact on our lives, such as. The climate. Why not take along to discuss the same detail about that huge issue? I'm not minimizing the discussion that has taken place here because it's just good. The matter must be explained to everyone, and it takes countless hours to understand the facts. It's just good. I'm not sleepy. I don't have to go home early or anything like that. I could probably stay here for the next night. I think we can agree on the importance of establishing clearly in the constitution to ensure the continuation of the nation's possession of energy resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u381	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's discourse and historical language, such as it was interesting to listen. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for Skúli Magnússon's opinion. The report states: However, in recent years there has been an idea of fixing a cable from Iceland to Britain and has a plan for such a string (called ▪IceLink) taken up by the European Union's strategy for development, expected to be initiatived by Landsnets hf. While this is not a binding decision, and it is uncertain whether a string would be realized (and if Britain were to become a member of the European Union at the time and if it were laid), it is appropriate to aim for a discussion of the practicality of the European Union's European Union market and its sources of information that will be produced by the European Union's 7, 8 and 9th. Regulation No. 713/2009, therefore, knew how to get used to Icelandic interests. I'd appreciate it if I could get a opinion. A senator's opinion of this, and especially what is said here, may... be applied to Icelandic interests (U.S.).
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u382	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question. It so much fun that I went to a very interesting lecture by the district judge Skúli Magnússon during the days. There he reviewed his opinion, and if we were in any danger of our resources, in the case of a despondency, about a cable in the third energy pack. At this meeting there were many who wanted to ask this question because of the way the discussion has been discussed. Are we in danger of our resources? What if, etc.? There the other lawyer, Skúli Magnússon, took a very clear example. paritaprevir The Birgir men of Þórarinsson, mentioned, said: "I am, for example, a servant of Jehovah. in my opinion of examples, possible examples, if and what. This example he's taking, that's not the situation today. It has nothing to do with this third energy package. He made it absolutely clear at this meeting, and makes it as well in this opinion, that this is only an example that is being taken out of the future but no fact. This is exactly what I was talking about in my speech, referring to the words of Timothy Snyders, the respected historian. It is dangerous when the dictator, in that example, takes something that is not a fact but a plan for a possible future and acts as if it is a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u383	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator, and if I add only what's going on with Skúli Magnússon on the legal obligation, it says that it is important to keep in mind the role of a cable in the infrastructure of this common market of energy, etc. He also states that it may be reasoned that the terms of free exchange in the Community covenant should include Member States'obligation to contour. In addition, he says that in this regard the Community's directives on the development of fusion also mattered. Such obligations may be due to Member States'role in the European Economic Areas, which are viewed by the Community's regulations, which turn to the internal market by electricity. There's a scholar that, like a cot. One senator expressed it, thinking about things that could happen, but perhaps they are not a fact. This must be the same as uncertainty. Hv. There must be a senator who can agree with me on that. Is it not best, then, to eliminate the uncertainty and do this legal way that we have, to handle the case for the joint EEA Commission, where EFTA representatives sit, ambassadors of the EFTA and the European Union, and only get an exception that, hopefully, would be in our favor? Then we'd have destroyed all those speculations and speculations. A senator must agree with me that it must be important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u384	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. This was made clear in the case of District Attorney Skúli Magnússon, and it also makes clear in the case of Professor and jurist, Stefánsson's Már, and I believe only all the jurists who have appeared or expressed themselves elsewhere that there is no legal obligation in Iceland to lay or allow sea cables to be turned to Iceland. It is my great pleasure to teach. A senator's first concern is that there's agitation. It is no more necessary in Iceland to land a cable... than it is a law or a requirement in Iceland that someone come out of the world... pass through a kiss or a bridge across the city of Reykjavík. There is no such requirement, there can be no such requirement or such obligation in Iceland to allow it. This was very clear, and it was also clearly stated by the jurists I listened to the joint meeting of the employment committee and the State Department of State. What a pleasure it is to be able to at least Calm down. A senator with this. There is no uncertainty about this. There is no such uncertainty. At least we can calm down with this opinion tonight. All those who know and have expressed their feelings about this are clear. There is no such obligation in Iceland, the Icelandic government or the Icelandic public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u385	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helga sold Helgadóttir for a bad story, which was not surprising, since she was not just a senator and a lawyer but an actress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u386	An actor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u387	. An interesting lecture and quotations from Professor Snyder's book on tyranny, which accurately describes Nazi socialism and nationalistism and others who have accepted that idea. I would like to get a stand for it. A senator, whether or not she disagrees with the instigator's disintegration against them, may be contrary to a constitution. On the one hand, if she believes that the legal defenses established at the Parliament's resolution through the induction of the third energy package, there is no need to be above the head. If not, if it counts that they are needed, whether they are fully identified and available and analysed so that a balanced and informed view of them can be made, whether they are designed to do so that it will not come back to us later, i.e. that they think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u388	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator is eager to answer and encourage him to read this book. You see, it's a lot of work on tyranny. It is easy to read, and I recommend that people read it not just once and not just fast but often and keep it on their nightstand at any time. I've benefited a lot, and I've enjoyed it. They asked me about it. A senator whether I'd be concerned that the induction of this third energy package would be contrary to the constitution. I'm not worried about that. I am convinced that it is not. I'm convinced because of my legal expertise, because I've been teaching governmental rights and learning administrative rights to the university law department, and also because, as I don't think I'm an expert, I've listened to a number of jurists and all the jurists who have expressed themselves on the case say we're not giving up some kind of power, so we're not going against the Republic of Iceland's Constitution. On the other hand, I have to say because of what has been read many times from the opinion of the Stefánsson Már and the discussion of this, i.e. expeditation of power, many discussions among lawyers, in these times, and in this group. When are we giving up power, and when are we not? As I mentioned in my speech, perhaps we should have set clear rules in the Constitution of the EEA Treaty. [[The president calls.]] The second to Stefán Már Stefánsson points to this in his many views he has sent here. I'm gonna come in on it better in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u389	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. That was exactly what I was going to make in the second answer, the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik, the son of Hirst. They believe that beyond what has been done before, it would be necessary to provide the unchanged regulations that we have responded so often and that everyone knows what is being discussed. If it were introduced correctly, it might conflict with the Constitution. In this context, I'm concerned with whether it's that sort of hypothic, if it's the president's permission, if it's, or if it's really, that by means of this induction, we're going to break the constitution. I'm also a little interested in getting it out anyway. A senator knows the examples of warnings such as those we are now doing, placed somewhere before the induction and whether they have held to national rights. As it seems to me as a player, it is as if it is not in full agreement with the European Economic Area Convention. Rather, it is assumed that there is another way that they point out exactly as simple and relatively obvious, the way here is chosen is not flawless without their explaining it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u390	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator very much later responded. This by Stefán the Már of Stefánsson's opinion - now I'm so lucky to be sitting on my feet. A board of directors and patrols where we get exactly what we're talking about. We are asked to see if we should accept it or not. That's why we often get a commission for them, even though I haven't been sitting here for a long time, just Stefán Stefánsson and others with their opinion on the others and on these matters. That's where this notice of the possible exposé and very often, or I just want to say, whenever it comes up, it's all about it. He has previously taken note of the importance of putting this into the constitution. The Norwegians did it, for example. They made a clear arrangement for the constitution. We haven't. We didn't do that at the time when we became members of this contract, which I think everyone agrees that it was a big step for us to make. Regarding the question of whether this is Hypothetical, it's to some degree. This is always the content of Már Mot. He always points out this in his opinion of members of the council when asked for a special opinion for a administrative notice that needs to be removed. Only about legal advance asked for last year's answer: Hv. A senator and president of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, went through it tremendously well before. Legal or legal defender turns on the process of the case, the way the synonym is agreed, goes into the government, makes the Regulation, etc., the induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u391	- An example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u392	Mr. President. Soon the latter part of that day has been a lively discussion of the third energy package all day, an excellent conversation in itself, and realize that there are still some who need to talk and express themselves on the subject. However, we are in the position that some of us are going to other jobs early in the morning, committees, meetings, and other projects. So I'd like to hear a president's opinion of when he intends to end this meeting, so we'll get off at work in the morning. I reiterate what I said before, that the responsibility that the matter can have an effect on the matter, and important other matters are entirely in the hands of a government that took far too long to bring this matter into the process for release. [[For one thing, you've been up a lot longer, Logi.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u393	Mr. President. I'd love to join with what. paritaprevir The Logi of the son of Einarsson. It is indeed time for this meeting to begin to end, I would like to say. That is why there are very good reasons. Hv. A senator mentioned some. There's a lot of meeting work ahead of you, I presume, for all members of the council. There is a meeting on the job committee at 6:30 p.m. where there are very big and important subjects on the program. I'd like to, as I did earlier this evening in the discussion of the President's conference board, to make sure that there was a very important information today regarding this energy package that is subject to legal advance. It is absolutely necessary that before this discussion is over to consult with law - trained men on that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u394	A respectable president. It's been some time since we had our last conversation about the President's conference board on the same point we're discussing now, i.e. How long to the highest. The president sees to it that a meeting is going to work. As previous speakers have arrived, there are committee jobs in the morning. Without saying anything about the committee, you know that tomorrow's supposed to be taking a big, important case from committees. Of course, it is unacceptable if there is no information on how long a meeting should take place in order to organize the group that needs to be mentioned early in the morning, 8:30, and may have to remain awake for a while, for everyone realizes that this dictionary will not be completely exposed to its prey. [[For example: It's a matter of time before walking directly to a committee field in the morning.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u395	Mr. President. I think it's a terrible thing to be complaining, and it's time to be eleven. Two meetings have been held, which have just passed through midnight, the remaining 149th of Congress. There is one meeting that was longer, and we went straight to a committee meeting after that. I think that the committees were nothing worse than many others, or better if they were to be replaced. It is clear that there are many people who need to talk, so I feel that there is good reason why we should continue to do so into the night in order to try to lighten the rosary. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir A number of issues yet to be discussed are the Logi of the son of Einarsson, so we do not have time to discuss them. As we know, in the next two days there are committee days and only three meetings next week, so there is good reason for the members of the council to be well awake and well - aware of the case here and to comment but there is no complaint of workload or of having to attend a committee meeting in the morning at 8:30, and it is not 11 o'clock. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u396	Mr. President. There is simply no complaint about having to work hard. But there may be differences in how well we are prepared to work late tomorrow and then meet at a meeting. There may well be a problem. Bjarkey Olsen, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, is better off than I, who is gone down in the latter part of my life. I just don't think it's wise. There are over 100 people waiting. [[Up front.]] I'd also like to use this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the President of Generalis showed up in the press and commended himself and others because things have come through in such equal terms. Then I ask, "Why on earth did this case come so late, which now makes a stopper for all other matters? " This is not wise, and we should not allow it to affect our attention that will diminish as the morning begins to pass. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u397	A respectable president. It's full of days in June and August because people work all the same hours, so I don't see any reason why they always stay until midnight and night every day. You also have kids at home, and so on. and I thought we were headed toward a family-friendly environment. It doesn't look like it right now. I can't even get up with my kids in the morning to take care of them before I have to be at a committee meeting after a night meeting. There was another night meeting here earlier at the council where I slept in the councilroom. It wasn't that much fun. There's workload here from time to time, sure, but it's two months that we're not going to show up at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u398	A respectable president. We had last spoken to the conference board while we were having trouble. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who served on the president's chair, pointed out why. Vice President, Guðjón, would be the one who makes this decision. So I noticed why. paritaprevir The Brjánsson of the hall was in progress during that discussion, so the president has had plenty of time to meditate on this, and he will not be able to conclude so. I'd like that at the highest. President that he informs us of how he intends to conduct a meeting in the evening. It was adopted at a council meeting for an evening meeting. My point is, tonight is at the latest at midnight. V.E.G. The President has had plenty of time to think about this and I wish he would inform us how long he intends to keep a meeting going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u399	Mr. President. I come up here to join members of Congress who have spoken in the event that the latter part is beginning to pass and sensible, as it were. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson put it, about to finish a meeting. As mentioned, tomorrow we have a commission. I'm on a budget myself, and there's a lot of work to be on that committee. [[Up front.]] It may be more than just coming to the meeting, and now the committee needs to be put together and thought over it carefully, and it takes time for all of this, okay? Senator. I have to say, it was especially surprising when it happened. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said it was easy to stay up for the night because women have specifically talked about it here at the council that this is not family - related work, and talking late into the night is not family. Everybody knows that. I fully support these wishes that this will be the end of tonight, and then we will proceed to our next meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u400	President. I just wanted to encourage the highest. To continue this discussion. She's all right. This has been a lively exchange and will surely be a while. At some point, however, the discussion will, of course, be emptied into repetition and so forth. However, I don't think that we're underdeveloped to continue a meeting in the night if necessary. If speakers shorten their speech, or what to say, make sure that they do not repeat and such things, we should be able to get on with this and to finish the discussion. I think it is definitely much better to end it here in agreement than to tear it apart. Regarding when a night meeting becomes an overnight meeting, there is no distinction in the customs of this council whether a meeting will be concluded at the end of the week. Eleven or two or three or at any time, i.e. The release that the President has to continue a conference applies to both. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u401	Mr. President. I have to admit that I have two distinct powers of power to which I feel that this particular discussion is somewhat different. We've been listening to a fallacy that has long since been down, repeated, repeated, and repeated, and bored with it a little bit. At the same time, however, there are still some causes. Senators who have not been allowed to comment on the discussion I believe it is not helpful for us at the council to work at night. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] People lose focus, get tired, and reason becomes even worse. There are bad things that happen when we work at night. I'd like us to move on to work within a reasonable period of time, so if you need me to stop by midnight, we'd rather start converging meetings until summer if you have to. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of things that are going to work out. [[The president calls.]] Take them apart and try to get them out of committees as soon as possible. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u402	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with your point of view. Senators who have come here and talked about the intelligentness of working day by night, and sleeping at night, I know it quite well of other matters, in the loose translation of the matter of the coyian low, or of the natural physical humiliation. It occurs between two and six at night at the time you are at, i.e. We all are here. [[Up front.]] At this point body temperature declines and attention is reduced and thinking can occur. We're not shoveling a ditch here, we're doing some brave work. I think it would be a good idea if we were to stick to our full potential, try hard at what we're doing and work during the day but sleep at night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u403	A respectable president. We're not in any time pressure on this case. There's no need to stay here long after night. I object to it. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson says what an evening meeting according to some tradition, etc., the damn excuse for the language - unwritten rules are intolerable. It's annoying to be referring to traditions that are never written down as logical support for something that is not at all intellectual. I'm sorry, it's night till midnight and it's a new day. [[Up front.]] If you want to continue as you need to when there's no time press on it, I'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u404	Mr. President. So it was today that new, unexpected information was presented in the big issue we are discussing here. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Mr. President. I expect this to be a rule for the meeting, and I'd like the President to take advantage of it. This surprising information depends on the fact that the very thought of the whole matter, the whole legal instrument - it does not exist. Unless there is some idea out in town or somewhere in some paper, some text, or in some press release somewhere. It is absolutely necessary that this be carried out by experts, law - trained men, and administrative experts. It is a perfect honor to the Council that such a balance will be made in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u405	A respectable president. I'd like to respond to that as long as possible. A senator suggests that he is a fresher information in the language on the legal requirements presented here. I'm gonna say it again for what? A senator even though I repeated it to two of them. earlier this evening, members of his party. The legal premise is trialed in a paper with the Congress resolution proposal. The Consolvement proposal is that the General allows the government to lift government orders. Then the government will make a decommissioning policy, which includes the premonitions, are taken straight out of the report, and into the introduction rule. It won't happen later, they're not hiding them in any way, and they're not new, they've been in the report since she was submitted. They're also at the pro-address board where there are prime experts on the marine cable and that the power of decision is still more likely to be involved that there will ever be a sea cable here. [[The president calls.]] It is far - fetched to say that today there have been some new information; they have been ahead of time. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u406	Mr. President. I come up to join them. Councilmen who have said that working late into the night does not pay because the same things need to be said over and over again, apparently. Hv. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir is now in three places after a break was held at about a hour. Eight people come up here to explain why. Councilmen of the Central Party Act of the EEA at the General Assembly. I'm not sure they'll pay for it. Senators being here for a little longer until midnight, because it seems that the receiver has become quite numb. I think it would also be advisable for members of the Parliament to have a course in the management of the EEA at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u407	Mr. President. I'm kind of going to repeat the game from an hour ago or then encourage the highest. To protect us from entering the night with this issue. I just reiterate that the lack of organization that the executives have shown by giving this matter should not be minimized in the handling of the matter at the Senate or in the handling of other committees. This is not our responsibility. We demand that we be able to care for other activities and that this matter be continued in daylight. Then there is another issue that I feel about whether a man is repeating himself or something like that. It's a different arm. I don't think there is any doubt what our attitude in restoration is about this subject and the general history of it. I'm the highest. Ministers to handle the situation set out here to make a evening meeting stand and discuss matters till evening. Whether that means less than a midnight or less, there is something else that we do well for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u408	Mr. President. To sell the nation's induction of this rule and to tell people, for some form of atonement, that there is a legal premise that is really nothing but to point out the fact that Iceland is an island, so we have to put a seaband to connect with a joint nuclear power market in Europe? [[Up front.]] Are they serious? Mr. President. I think we need to understand this. We need to understand this. Is this the legal guardian to address all people's anxieties? Is this him, that we are an island, and that there are no cables in this place? Are they serious?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u409	President. I can tell you what a respectable president is and what to do. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir that I'm not going to bed. I'm going to use this night to read European regulations and prepare for the continuation of these discussions. On the other hand, it seems clear to me that here are members of a council that needs rest, get to bed, form a senator who comes and gives a purely nutty speech in which the skeptics of the third energy package are likened to Nazis. Although the president who now sits on the throne is part of a government official position, he cannot be at the highest level. A president feels that a majority of the government's supporters are now referred to as Nazis in a speech chair. Isn't this clear evidence that it's time to interrupt the General meetings and give at least one. Some members of the council may be able to rest?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u410	Mr. President. I want to agree with what the last speaker said. I think this discussion has come to a point where we should send members of Congress home and continue at our next meeting. I'm also a very special guy. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year came here and was keenly interested in the continuation of this discussion until the night. He's not going to let his great allies, reverends, and Pirata worlds. Especially now, perhaps he should reward them for how well they have been behind the government in this case and let them go home to bed. I think that would be a good idea, and then we'll just go on to the next meeting, as I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u411	Mr. President. I believe that experts need to be called to inform us about what the followers of this law call legal warnings. It turns out they're quite poor. Even if man points in the words of the European Commission of energy and the joint declaration of the EFTA countries there is nothing inside it. There's nothing where the hand is attached unless they admit the fact that Iceland is isolated; Iceland is an island and there's no sea cable here. Is this the legal defence, Mr. President? One thing is certain, by removing the administrative warnings, as is being done by this synonym, we are committed to implementing the rule of the third energy package, no matter what they say about the EFTA countries or European energy manager.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u412	V.E.G. President. I'm not from the fact that I'm an analyst but from a more serious tone of voice in some of the councils here, but at about eight o'clock when they went to the conference and asked for a continuation of a meeting. I direct my recommendation to the president to listen to members of the council, where these are issues that people need to consider and to have their thoughts clearly defined. There are still committees that are equally important, and people also want to be able to prepare and plan for them. In view of tradition, it could have been assumed that a meeting would have lasted until midnight or so. But a night meeting - unless there's a great need, I think we should save it for a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u413	The president would like to agree with the senator's statement that this discussion has been long today and in recent days. It has been beneficial and refreshing in its chapters. Many have spoken up, and members of the council have been quite distressed. There's an interest in this matter. It's a big, important case. The president senses that he is not very interested in starting a long night meeting and is obliged to consider this matter. There's a lot to do in the council and committees. There are committees days ahead, and many cases await the appointment of the council. Since there are not many days left, it is tempting to try to handle matters this way in a way that is as fast as possible, but in a careful way. There will have been discussions with members of the council at the beginning of a week about the organization of the week and discussions about meetings being longer, there would be evening meetings. Night meetings were likely not discussed, but there have been differences in understanding. In view of the circumstances we now live in the council, however, the president still allows himself to be tempted to give his talks to a small number of speakers, but he will not be called to a long night meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u414	V.E.G. President. Since the three packs of energy were discussed at the council, the propaganda for his approval has gone progressively. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not think that it was enough to take a public tour of the country. He was the former president of the EFTA Court, Carl Baudenbacher, who was called to Iceland to follow his statement he wrote on May 5, despite a formal postponement to the State of the United States on April 29. Whether Baudenbacher was called by the minister of foreign affairs or not, let's leave it out, but his message is very clear. He would like to say that the nation rejects the energy package if we are punished by the EU. It even goes so far as to say that by rejecting the energy package, we are playing the EEA Treaty, since the Norwegians could react badly to it and even enter into a two-sided energy contract with the European Union. If we look at the data, especially when reading 102th paragraph. In the EEA Convention, it is clear that the role of the joint EEA committee is a solution that can be agreed on by all Member States to reject the proposed changes, as per this case, by permission of the President: If it is not possible to agree on changes to the Annex to this agreement, despite the application of a previous paragraph, the joint EEA Commission shall investigate all the additional possibilities of ensuring continued good implementation of the contract... In this article, experts such as Stefánsson Motorsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst unappreciatively referred to, as follows, by permission of the president: The European Commission shall continue to work on a solution which can be accepted to withdraw its delay at the first opportunity. It has also been stated that Már Mare and Friðrik believe that the legal means to redirect the case to the joint EEC as this is the way the EEA treaties are expected to have gone. If I have begun to quote the words of their fine companions, it is on page 30. 25 in their opinion on administrative terms related to government sales to EU/EFTA institutions due to EU third energy pack, with permission of presidents: No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if it is not to be tested in the face of an tolerated law code. - Though not tested by the perfunctory law. - Therefore, it would be necessary to reason and, in fact, conclude that a policy-making approach is made to control products that are already linked to the third energy package and that before the General Assembly agrees with the third energy package. Must therefore refuse a point of view that information related to the ESA is not relevant at this stage where the infrastructure of the cross-borders will still be seen here on land... This is not the country's basic interest. This is renewable energy sources. This is water power and aquifer, which is the basis for our survival and thus the activities of domestic enterprises. We must therefore use our energy resources for the nation and use it for the nation, as we do with sea resources. We're supposed to use the resources to put the commercial life in everyone's way around the country. That's basic to my mind. As I said earlier today, the European Union lives under different conditions than when it comes to energy. We have our energy company on public property and we live in stable, safe production. If we associate with the EU energy market, power prices will increase largely, to households and thereby to families in the country, where the cost of house warming will rise. And as the review of Hjerfund, the Hjörleifur of Guttormsson, by permission of the President's Committee, says: In addition to homes and small companies that pay the cost of energy induction package 3 and the accompanying link to the EU system, there will be Icelandic nature, years, water and ground temperature, tolerance of increased inactivation by the expected transfer of electrical energy to the eye. Even now this may be a negative view of landowners and some rural communities for protecting valuable natural areas, including the idea of the central highlands all as national parks. Be aware that the class teaching itself in green policy should become a participants in such a expedition rather than take the initiative to support the public interest in the energy resource and adjust its moderate efficiency. For the rural population, it is also particularly at stake, so incomprehensible that those who claim to be advocates of those who will endure the attack on a three - pack supply of energy will be required. Another person who has really been on the watch is Ögmundur Jónasson, whose writings have been able to bring people back to their minds. He says even. in his article in the Morning newspaper today, with the permission of a president: THE contents of each package have been debated, but it is hardly possible to debate which way to travel. It's always been right around. First, there was an accounting requirement for separating production, distribution, and sale. Thereafter, there was also a requirement for division of property. There the Icelanders received an exception known to the possession of the Landsnet that has been in the possession of Landing, Rarisk, OR, and Ennisburfjörður Vestur. But in spite of this, the government is preparing to separate the ownership between the manufacturer and the manufacturer, that energy producers do not have things for the present time. The taxpayers have been ordered to release them. Why? A close answer is that they are closer to the European Union's nuclear market formulas, but it would now be easier to cut down nationalization, as rivals have already planned and to sell the pieces to each other. It is important to note that the Nej to EU in Norway has raised a million Norwegian dollars in order to prosecute the Norwegian Empire, with prime minister Erna Solberg, in charge. As I understand this, the lawyer wants to deny that the Norwegian constitution was not followed during the induction of the energy package and therefore the induction is illegal. It is therefore impossible to say whether the Norwegian have actually introduced a pack of three energy, whether or not they have introduced that package, since it is still yet to be judged in this massive heat case. This suggests that the European Union's indirect threats, conducted by Carl Baudenbacher, are not something that should stand in Iceland. We've faced threats before, and we've had better. The most intimate example in my mind is Icesave, where one expert after another encouraged us to accept the agreement. We Icelanders are a proud nation, and we are a people who will not be told what to do, a nation who personally examines matters, and a nation who makes their own decisions without any influence from international institutions. As far as I'm concerned, this case is nothing different from previous cases, so there's no reason to watch it with other glasses. No matter what threats we may face, no matter what fear propaganda is caused upon us, it does not change that there is no evidence for the energy package. It is best to reject him, send him back to the joint EEC. Time is now. And finally, I'd like to say this: Let's not forget that some 4.2 billion profits were made in April. With Icelanders, we still live at the lowest energy prices in the world. Why on earth should we want to rock this successful boat that has sailed with us through turbulent waters and make sure that energy prices are always good for us? I'm gonna turn this package down. And I know we'll be bombarded with fear propaganda and even some kind of threat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u415	A respectable president. Here's the end of a good word for panic propaganda. I'll give you two examples of fear propaganda in a speech given. Senator. On the one hand, it was suggested that the land should be cut down. There is absolutely no evidence to support that conclusion and conclusion, nothing. By hinting at this, without any moisture or data, there is a measure of fear that there is a possible future, without support. Another example is the approval of a third energy pack with a high energy price. And there is no evidence to support that conclusion. Nothing. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is afraid because there is no evidence to prove that this will be the result, no one. The aim of the induction is to reduce energy prices, that's the direct objective. We're a people who do their own research. That would have been great, for example. With the CFC rules on tax dressing, if we'd done a little more research and a little faster. That could have saved us a lot of things. There's no argument, says yah. Senator. What about the energy security you've mentioned here, though, quite a few times? A national and energy security strategy that would be very suitable for many land areas? What about the services? What about transparency? What about consumer protection? Is that not evidence that has been cited many times? Yet it is said that there is no evidence. Why is it constantly ignoring what others are saying in this matter, about the obvious and positive changes that come with this energy package? And what is the source of the information that we have the lowest energy prices in the world? I'm asking why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u416	V.E.G. President. I don't want to mean that I've done some kind of panic propaganda here. I'd rather say that I'm trying to follow through on my case with logic. To back up a word about an enterprise which is the dominant of energy markets, we have a company here called Landing, which is certainly the dominant force in the energy market. As far as I know, these companies are being cut down, taking apart the companies that are the dominant of the energy market. It's done in the European Union. I don't expect it to be done here. It is clear that electricity prices have already gone up. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm showed us some of the bills earlier today. It's not taken out of the air. That is why it is so important that we accept the facts and reasons. I know we need energy, e.g. In Akureyri, and I do not see at all that energy security will be assured there if in the future a sea cable will be placed where our clean energy will be used to save energy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u417	A respectable president. There is no direct relationship between previous energy packages being approved and high energy prices. There are many other reasons. This was referred to an increase in Southnes, possibly related to everything else. If there is a similar situation throughout the country, perhaps there would be a greater link between them or if there were closer periods between them, perhaps this would be right. It does not necessarily mean an increase with an energy package of one or two. And there was an increase in both the energy package one and two? If so, is it inevitable that there is an increase in a pack of three energy? There's no connection, not a logical relationship. Nothing in this energy package says it's a logical conclusion. If they have a sea cable, they'll blow their brains out. A senator that will draw all the energy from here to Germany. How do you get a what? A senator out of it? The energy the sea cable could carry would be about Twenty-five percent of all the energy compared to 80% going to the aluminium companies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The size comparison is the one. What 25% of energy would drive in Europe is just small.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u418	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that. I'd like to only think out here, if that's small. We're here with a company, let's just say an aluminium that makes a product that needs to move to Europe or anywhere, and if a string has arrived, there's no reason to keep this company here. However, the energy available in this country can be used to operate this European aluminium instead. To get rid of the transport side. - You don't have to shake your head, dog. Björn Levin's Leví. [[Up front.]] It's like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u419	The cable doesn't carry it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u420	Mr. President. I listened attentively to a talk given. The senator was, in fact, waiting for her to specify the factors in the third energy package that she felt would cause the effect she warned. Has a what? A senator can tell us what points are in the energy package that she really worries about? Because she's obviously worried about this. I wondered if her concern is due to any other factor than the one contained in the energy package discussed here. She may be worried for some other reason. But I'd like to allow her to enter this because we're discussing a particular case, certain types of the European Union to enter, and if she thinks something in them is a danger, I'd like to ask her to specify it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u421	V.E.G. President. I'm worried about this. In order to specify something -- there are many factors to take - it is one point that ACER, for example, will determine whether a sea cable application will be approved for Iceland. [[Up front.]] Neither the Icelandic government nor the General will be able to resist such a project. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Therefore, it was considered that The lawyers at Friðrik Án Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson stated in their opinion to the Ministry of State that Regulation 713/2009 did not agree with the Constitution of Iceland. [[Foreground on: No.]] Is that enough? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u422	V.E.G. President. I wanted to say about that answer why. The senator that what it says has no support in the regulations we are considering. It is a misunderstanding to think that the fine scholars she mentioned in her talk claimed this. On the contrary, all scholars about this have refused that the introduction of this Regulation involves obligation to place a cable or prevent the government from making a personal decision. That's basic. And I'm sorry to say that if anything happens. The senator bases his view on that understanding, but that understanding is not correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u423	V.E.G. President. I still express concern for this matter. I would like to only point out that in the EU Regulation 347/2013/EC on European energy infrastructure guidelines, the need for EU energy export and further cross-border connections is discussed. It states that no Member States are isolated from Europe regarding the gas and electricity systems. [[Up front.]] That's what worries me. Has a what? Don't a senator worry about that too?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u424	President. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council to see that the third energy package represents breaking down land activation. I am aware of not large companies in the European energy market, but relatively small. And all energy production in Iceland may be half the amount of energy produced throughout Europe. It's hard for me to see that it fits. A senator was talking about. You can understand why. The senator so the Icelanders are losing custody of the energy resource with the third energy package. I have not heard anyone speak in such a way that it will be neither of the energy resource nor how to transfer energy through the country, i.e. the transport systems of electricity in Iceland. It's clear here. A senator that the potential for sea cable across a border that says the basis of cross-border structures, sea cables to Europe, could cause energy shortages in Akureyri or in the Eypanese. I cut it in the first round. that the same point was suggested here in April when we were already discussing related topics. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, in his speech, said that the power system has been built in northern Europe, the line line line of origin. A senator then called it a northeast line - to link a cable. This discussion is twisted, and somehow everyone is on their heads. It sounds like this has become a debate over Iceland's sovereignty and the bad foreigners who are going to exploit the land. That's how she sounds. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a little bit of fear in this kind of talk. I'll ask you some more questions in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u425	V.E.G. President. I'm worried about the sovereignty. I am not necessarily afraid of foreigners, but I would like to review what happened earlier in our day. A senator was not in the hall. On February 15, 2018, scholar Max Baumgart, at the University of Akureyri, gave talks. There he concluded that it was actually the European Union's legal obligation to put a cable into Iceland and that there was really nothing in our power to prevent it. I know this opinion is found on the University's website in Akureyri. As I stand here, it is clear that Europe needs so-called pure energy. We have pure energy, and no one will tell me that this road is under control that it's not someone trying to get it away from us that we have to offer. We've seen this in other places and states.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u426	Mr. President. I haven't heard from that opinion, but I've never heard anyone speak in this way anywhere. I think it's a weird idea at the moment. A senator who has risked cross-linking to Iceland, apparently against the will of Icelanders, and from that, they transport their worlds to Europe and transport their energy through a marine cable to Europe. What has become the cost of transport to the electrical prices of the energy that triggers such an aluminium? That's what I'm talking about. With that thought, a senator thought, " What kind of energy price would such an energy price be in such an aluminium? ' It's just a mess. It so happens that the transwarp cables are not free of charge. I have a feeling some people haven't quite figured that out. I've heard this conversation a few times, that it's like moving a sea cable is just free. It's just a basic logic. [[The president calls.]] Watch your step. A senator explained to me how she is able to do this in real life?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u427	V.E.G. President. This is gonna be fun. The Parliament each time makes a decision thereafter. I'm much worried that there is a council every time that can change the previous decisions of other councils, and I'm quite sure that there are people who are seeking our energy. It is not in the air that men, businesses, organizations, have put in enormous sums of money to explore the sea cables. That must be because they see some advantage in making such an expensive journey. What's left of me is, what is it in this conquistador? A senator to change his mind, anyway, from the conclusion of his last national meeting of the Independence Party? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-15-105.u428	Mr. President. During the short time that I have in place, I will take steps to take into account some specific points and begin with the legal warning that unexpectedly disappeared today, despite being introduced by the spokesmen of this case as a crucial factor in the case. The day's discussion of where he was most likely to be searched took a little different. That has even been true. The text from the synopsis arrangement presented here is presented. It has been suggested by the joint declaration of the EFTA, Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein, which was proposed at a meeting of the joint EEA committee on May 8, as well as what has been called the 0-precise of Miguel's committee. In other words, there is a document that has been here for a long time, a joint statement at the highest. Secretary of State and Miguel Arias Cañete, announced in history as the Commission director of energy for the European Commission. They discussed March 20, 2019 of the EU's third energy package. And here's a story of it. Then there's one more version, Mr. President, which will be some kind of regulations. There should be a plan to issue a Regulation and this warning is to be found. It is too early to do so, looking for this warning, for it is based on the details of a Regulation that has not been published and has not been shown and has not been introduced. Mr. President. I allow myself to hope that, as most members of the Parliament can come to realize it, it is considered as totally harassment to anyone, even though it is said, that this must seek counsel and opinion from the legalists, experts in European rights, in the administrative rights, e.g. power rights, etc. It is not to be despised by men, though by their experience and knowledge very well-teached members of the council are sought here for the respect and information of the practitioners of the academic world, if I may say so. I want to celebrate the decision of the first vice president. paritaprevir Guðjón the Guðjón of Brjánsson, about not taking this discussion too long. I hope that there will be a time that will allow for this discussion to be held in order to communicate with the kind of person I could about. In fact, it was so legal that I had the opportunity to attend a few meetings at the Foreign Affairs Committee and at one of these meetings Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son. It was an open meeting. In fact, journalists were not present. I had the opportunity to ask Professor Davíð Þór about the national value of the company and had not thought to quote him, because there were no local journalists, while others have done so, others who were participants in this meeting, so I'll let myself report it, as previously shown, that his answer was that there was nothing in this warning. Then came the comment that he was evidently intended for a home bridge, as it was said. I believe that there may be other legalists who could respond in a similar way, but of course, time must reveal it, and I expect to benefit from conversations with such ones in the coming days. There's one more thing I wanted to say. There's a word in the opinion of the greater part that I fired on and became a little surprised. It's become a tip-and-a-half-a-half-a-half-hour plan, now. It is stated that if the suggestion that I consider to be the main proposal for the opinions of the Friðrik River Friðriksson Árni of Hirst and Stefán-Már Stefánsson, who are often mentioned, will be adopted into the joint EU committee for reconciliation on the basis of 102.g. The European Economic Area covenant. I have also had the opportunity to study the paper with the bill that became the law No. 2/1993. There's that 102 st. in no way presented as any kind of emergency. Those who have said such things, such as making up a majority of them, must explain in what legal interpretation or on which sources they build to speak about 102 C.E. as an emergency arrangement. Mr. President. It's going fast. In this context, I would like to quote the May 11 Morning newspaper. It contains an editorial entitled "Torrent Letter, " and readers of the Morning newspaper are familiar with for decades. Many would feel that they know the authorship of this article in the morning newspaper that it will be the editor of the second two, but in this case the former head of the Independence Party and prime minister for 13 years, Davíð Oddsson. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read in a very brief article that says: It is necessary to review thoroughly whether anyone has told a discussion about the EEA Convention that one time the Icelanders wanted to use their right to refuse the induction of the ships they were not suitable for would bring about a collapse of that agreement. You can be sure here that these threats and threats are not true. And yet this threat is the only excuse for running this risky case through the government. Its preparation is similar to that of no one at all. So many were words. I must admit that I am surprised that those who have moved in these discussions that by going that way, which is the main proposal for the twice - known concept of the two civilizations, they were just starting our participation in the EEA community into some particular danger. This claim, or speculation, has not been convincing, and it is difficult to discern the source or information involved. It would be fine if someone informed us of this point. We're running out of time. In the end, I want to say this: In view of the great understanding that seems to exist by the European Commission of Energy and the one at the meeting of the joint committee, I ask: What is the problem of simply going on the path of the two men to which the decision and solution in peaceful and good cooperation that the EEA is developing?
