ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u1	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 1558, about whaling, from Inga Sæland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u2	V.E.G. President. I'd like to give this request a concern to the Senate for the development of a report request at the council. In recent years, the size of the report, some of which have been very extensive, has increased dramatically. A casual examination showed that in 2013 one request was adopted at the General Assembly, the year after three C.E. Last year they were the 15th at this assembly. Many of these requests are certainly valid, but there is no problem with a hearing on the matter of reporting requests that the press submits the case, the council is faced with saying yes or no, but there is no treatment, no observation, no discussion of committees, and not even discussion at the council Hall. That's why I wanted to bring it up in general. Regarding this request in particular, I have to say that this is both a request for a general report and a procedure of a member of the county and a more specific question. I am deeply concerned that this is actually asking for many bounds of literature on the general implementation of regulations for national rights. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " Wouldn't this sort of case have needed a more intimate opinion on the council before the matter was elected? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u3	Mr. President. In general, I have supported reports in this hall because I think it is important that members of the Parliament be able to request information from the European Commission. But I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to agree with it. paritaprevir The Birgir of the year's Ármannsson, not because I generally object to our reporting requests, but because I think they can be considered more readily. I've been there for a considerable time for a responsible person to get a report from what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for worthy and important matters that have taken considerable time to work out. I've got two reports from the other side. paritaprevir Álán Ágúst, Álústsson, on the other hand, Ágústsson, the son of Augustus. Álfheiður Álfheill, Ingadóttir of Ingagóttir on a subject that is subject to a number of departments and is referred to me as some kind of government foremanagement, but also requires a huge supply of information from different councils. I will not violate this request any more than I have so far, but I strongly encourage the President of the Generals to take these matters into the presiding committee. I think it's only natural that file requests get more planning and more specific rules. It is also very boring to refuse to grant the requests of members of Congress, for this is a relative short period of time that we are given to respond to even the most extensive requests. I think we must be able to create a solidarity at the council to change this practice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u4	Mr. President. These are particularly interesting discussions, especially from a member of the administrative body, who wants to work a lot with the council but who constantly come here and complain about the inquiries and reports, says they have become too many, but has not offered any solutions and has no idea how to resolve the issues, but they come here mainly to complain about the best of Pirata's inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u5	Mr. President. Just a little short on this discussion. V.E.G. It was directed to the highest level by the prime minister. The president is taking up this case at the Presidency Committee and I would like to have said here that our reports are very important to us. The reports have raised issues that have continued and improved our community. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. A president when he picks up the case. The prime committee that there is no way that more of the Generals will say yes or no to the council reports. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u6	A respectable president. Granted, there are problems with the time the government has to answer not only questions but also reports on different levels. It has to do not only with the time frame set up in Congress law but also with the equipment we actually provide to the government to carry out the work that the Parliament assigns to the government by means of inquiry and reporting requests. I haven't seen any report requests or requests that are not entitled to. This is a very good report request, and it is very important to have the information requested. There was an answer to another inquiry, which definitely gives us reason to consider the matter further. This is probably large, like my report request, but I'm not complaining that the report is late, not at all, because I know it's extensive, even though it's given ten weeks. I wait patiently for the report, and I'm not stressing about it. Still, his time frame is in the law, and it is unfortunate that we do not allow governments to allow them to be able to respond in time to the standards set by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u7	Mr. President. We're going to discuss a request for a report, and I'm not going to reenact it much, but I'm going to throw up the tactics and the way we are going. No doubt many of these are important, I've only read the request for one or two minutes, but I quickly see that there are many things that are clearly legalized. So I thought about how they are expressed, how they are expressed, and how they are applied quickly. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken where I believe men should try to get closer to the core. What do humans want with the request? I can see in a moment a few teams, a completely fixed point in the law. I think that men asking for reports should put them down better when they ask for them and approach the core rather than have the request as far as this is concerned. [[The president calls.]] I agree with those who have spoken against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u8	Mr. President. I just wanted to draw attention to this, since when reports are presented, members of the Parliament in general have had no opportunity to discuss the matter until it is elected in a chamber. You need all the treatments, every observation, every discussion on whether things could be spoken differently, etc. so I think, especially in the case of large cases, extensive reporting requests, that discussion and observation should take place in the precept of the matter, not that it really hangs on to members of Congress in such a way that they have to say yes or no and have no opportunity to give any perspective on how the petition is made. The situation is, of course, that the reports are not automatic, i.e. Congress officials do not automatically have the right to report. [[The president calls.]] Nine senators can submit a report request, but we need approval at the council. I don't mean to violate the case, but I wanted to use this opportunity to bring this up because I think it's a growing problem that we may need to get around to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u9	The president asks for time limits. Since we're starting a special kitchen date for reporting requests, we have to watch out for time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u10	President. I like this kitchen day. I like it when we discuss our work. I just have to say, I don't quite understand that there's a complaint that there's been a complaint over reports that something has gone wrong with the work of a particular agency. I think it's normal and responsible to sit over why that is. Is this because they lack some other means that may be better? Is there a need for a better grip on this? I will protect the rights of members of the Parliament, wherever they stand, in order to provide reports, but I think it's just as natural that we sit over matters and see why this huge growth is. This does not apply merely to the minister's report requests, for example. I have attended committee meetings that I have attended institutions that have had to respond to the reports have sometimes had to put aside other matters, even initiatives, while they answer. The request never comes with any budget. How do we make the best report requests, and how can we, as members of Congress, call out for that information because they often make very good cases? [[The president calls.]] Let's take a look at this in the size context of the effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u11	V.E.G. President. I don't really know what to say. I don't normally object to the report request, but here comes a report request for the execution of state-made politicians on the law on how to approach and the law on forced sales. The law says they're meant to perform these types, and it's all bound up in the law. If there is some disagreement on the legal process in the county, they will carry it under the courts as expected. What's this for? Contrary to what. Ármannsson I strongly oppose all this bullshit that is going on during this council and make the administration totally inactive by the meaningless report request and inquiry. Special categories are experts in this. I'm not looking at you, what. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's all bullshit, and you should just admit it and stop messing with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u12	A respectable president. I think it's very good to consider that we're just reviewing the method of a report request, especially if I think it's all right to reflect on the idea at any given moment. 8th yrs Smoke. n., Birgir Ármannsson of Aarhuman, made it clear that we would discuss them in a pretext hall. I think it's a very good idea. I disagree that this request is merely a request for law, and I think it's normal to ask about the project. I would also like to mention that there is a growing demand for information in modern society. Piranians are elected in many ways to seek more information, and it is very important that the Ministry and management have the opportunities they need to respond to the increased demand for information. Not only can we look forward to trying to reduce the demand but we also need to improve the supply of information and increase the size of the government to respond to this growing demand. Now is a better opportunity to use information that comes on, and most important, I would like to remind you that even though we are small and few, we are an independent nation, and this requires us of a particular foundation. And how information, whether because of the demands of members of Congress or by other means, is a fundamental factor that we have to finance properly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u13	A respectable president. There is a specific quality set for reporting requests at this time, i.e. that nine senators are willing to sign it. The process is not just to bring up some questions and then to the council. The text reads, and the committee field often needs help to shape the questions, to rephrase them, such as. with my report requests for the bank reports. She went all the way back and forth, for there was a tiny new arrival to the reporting request because it meant so many ministers and still needed to see that it could be done. Then it was through the prime minister. There, a process began. At first, it was recommended to be submitted to the minister of finance, but according to the comment, the petition was made and requested by the prime minister. There is much to change into the information community we are becoming, and the council must simply consider it. [[The president calls.]] There were suggestions to improve information technology that would even save. This would help and even reduce the reporting requests. Who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u14	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson said that we should have some sort of trial or observation. I'd like to see what kind of transfer was in it. How can you tell? For example, is there a senator who has a discussion at the Assembly Hall? Should the more part be able to reject the report requests that he does not find comfortable or not objectively relevant? [[Can...]] Is that supposed to go on? We're talking about getting reports from basic ideas because of what we're talking about. A senator feel that they have become too many? It is true that there has been a discussion of reports. I am, for example. Still remembering a report from what happened. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, who was more discussed in this conference hall. What I'm just trying to do is to come back here and complain about the number of queries, the number of information requests, but there are no solutions. It is not to see how this should be done better. Rather, it is to be irritated by some unique request. Senators up here complaining. [[The president calls.]] Then give them solutions instead of always rushing into the fact that we are doing our job. [[Prominently, Prime Minister...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u15	Mr. President. I'm just going to reiterate that I have nothing against this request and I'm not going to vote against it. I just point out what I think is the main thing. At first glance, the request seems to be to use a shotgun on the fly. They're shooting in every direction. I can quickly see questions that have to do with absolutely certain legal issues so that the answer would be actually extracting from law and principle. I don't think some of this is necessary. There is, however, some core that I feel is closer to me than is made in this request to get to the point. What are they looking for? What do people want in this report? That's where the shotgun is used for the fish fly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u16	Mr. President. I can't quite figure out this conversation. A senator simply asks for a report on the implementation of law-enforcement EICs, and we fight and warn in the speech of the report request, not what will then appear in this report for which it is being requested, its content and its information is presented, just to have the words as a matter of course. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year says that he is a growing problem, providing a request for a report. I feel that there is a growing problem in this council hall the opposition that is growing in the Senate's talk program on reporting requests, one of the most important maintenance roles for members of Congress to get information. I certainly don't understand the opposition reflected here on reporting requests, this role and the use of members of Congress to obtain information from the European Commission in order to have a clear discussion on the contents of the reports. [[The president calls.]] Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentioned a report to shed light on the arrival of the U.S. government to allow troops for military transfers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That was good information. So, then, should we take a stand for what is stated in the reports before they appear? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say no, and I support this request. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u17	A respectable president. There's no financier here. I have a few tips he should hear. But first only on financial policy. In the 10th. The law on public financial matters is presented on the basis that financial policy can be revised or, as stated in the Law, by permission of presidents: If the core institutions of financial policy are missing or predictable, they will be broken by economic failures, national years, or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with with with with any available resources. There is no discussion in the law or in a paper on what is considered to be an economic crisis or national threat and the decision taken by the revision considered here is therefore an example. The General Assembly will administer the legislation and budget under public financial law - which I intend to call LOF as short - and then the government will provide financial policies and, after the cases, revised financial policy. This should be emphasized as a recommendation from the legislature to the Commission. In their own case, for the sake of maintenance and trust, the Allied Council has such a financial body that provides its counsel on the proposal and whether there is a valid basis for review of current policies, as stated in Article 10. LOF. The opinion of the financial Council on this review is very interesting, says the President's permission: The Council of Nations believes that changes in economic development, as reflected in Iceland's latest projections, would not be sufficient as a valid basis for reexamination of current financial policy. However, there is evidence that the contractions could even become sharper and longer than predicted. Thus, if policy was not reviewed now, this might be necessary in the near future. This could require painful measures now in public financial matters that would prove unreasonable after considering and violating at baseline. A review of the financial board made it clear that the reason for review is necessary is a weakness in the management of finance, a weakness repeatedly referred to by financial advisers in their recent reports, a so - called straitjacket. This straitjacket is here because the government is only looking at the Hagues' project and viewing it as the minimum in its plans rather than having space to deal with fluctuations that will become inevitable in the economy sooner or later and down in this case. This is simply not expected to be worse. Because governments did not listen to warnings and did not expect the weaknesses of financial counsel, along with others, had repeatedly pointed out the need for the government to reexamine their financial policies. What is special about the straitjacket is that some reporters had warned about economic developments, that prospects were not as good as the Habitat project expected. It has repeatedly been stated in the government's opinion that its hands are bound, that the government must build on that forecast, but when 8th paragraph. The law on public financial matters is obviously the wrong one. In this article, the president's permission states: The balance of public finances should be based on sound information and, if available, objective and systematic data and public interest and national forecasts that take into account economic and economic impact from government plans. In addition, economic forecasting should be guided by established professional and international organisations. The wording is clear, based on sound reasons, data, public interest, and national interest, as well as on other evidence from established sources. Certainly, it is responsible to base mainly on the data established by the government, to set financial policy on the Economics Department, but according to Article 8. it is perfectly permitted by governments to look to other data. Due to baseline safety precautions, at least taking into account the information that is optimistic or pessimistic. That is exactly where governments should take into account other visualizations. A new term is added to revised financial policy, a so - called uncertainty complex. Its motive is to respond to warnings from the source. If there is a worse outcome than a economic forecast, it will suffer in a way that the uncertainty gap dictates. This uncertainty bed was called a yellow area for a financial hearing at a meeting of a financial committee and also added that it might be a reason for having a red area if the situation was far worse than expected. But it is not necessary to have such yellow and red limits in the financial policy if the plan is to go on or increase debt if the result is not predicted. The other way is also to account for such yellow and red areas in a financial plan if the goal is not to go to the land and increase debt. This would then identify the government's prioritization list of any task as yellow and red. This is only against the fact that financial advice points out that there should be a firm grip on the financial agenda, while there should be a flexibility in policy development. It is possible to import both ways separately. The government's proposal assumes an uncertain range of 0.4% of GDP. In response to the panel inquiry, it was stated that the percentage was chosen so that the law on public finances would not have to be covered. What is strange in reviewing financial policy is that 2018 is included, but the reason is that if this year did not have a financial strategy, it would not be the only standard. This is of particular interest in the fact that a report with a revised financial programme says, by permission of the president: ▪ The review of the financial policy presented here [is not the great thing if it is in conflict or if it is considered to be a number of financial laws that govern public finances.... This supports the fact that the situation described in the Organization's economic climate cannot be classified as an economic crisis or national threat. It rhymes with the opinion of a financial body as to whether a valid cause is a reexamination. Careful, on the other hand, and because of a straitjacket of financial policy, this review will be required. It all seems here to pass the defined criteria, not professionally, but only to meet the criteria. In 2018 a positive number is included in the review, and the uncertainty range said to be 0.4%, simply because if there was more, we were going to walk on the criteria according to the LOF. So it's not a professional assessment of why the uncertainty vector is what it is that it meets the analysis of uncertainty or variation predictors. Business advice accepted, e.g. This arrangement serves the rules, not that the rules served their purpose. It would be most normal if an abnormal analysis of the economic outlooks on which financial policy is based and would explain how the government's efforts were to be dealt with if the forecasting of realism was made. e.g. with an uncertainty gap in the survival of the government, with a payment, or with a priority plan for financial matters, for example some possible reactions to be listed. The reviews found concern about the emergence of the uncertainty gap because it is presented to the total amount of public living. A question is about division between state and rural society, for if it was not clear, it would be a temptation for one person to make room and leave nothing for the others. This is especially important, since there has been no agreement between the state and the local community on the purpose of living. How, then, should financial institutions in general be where there is a major economic system? It is characterized by a variety of statistics, such as the average economic growth and the same standard deviation from year to year. We should also have information about how accurate forecasts are - or maybe how inaccurate they are in Iceland. This information should help us set up financial policies. In this way we can ask ourselves such questions as what should happen if the economic crisis turns out to be more or less than average. How do governments react in such situations? To date, governments have simply based on national ideals, the forecasting as low as possible, and they have not given out what will happen if things go better or worse than predicted. The financial policy needs to take into account variations, both pessimistic and optimistic predictions, explaining the policy of the government in each case because it is in the interest of transparency, caution, firmness, and stability. It is worth considering only the revision of financial policy and access of Article 10. LONG to deviate from the total end of Article 7. When the revision criteria are met, it is entirely possible to deviate from the positive balance of each five - year period, due points, and payment criteria. This reserve provides a range of scenarios that can cause problems. Must e.g. taking into account an exception in the years before or after those years of balance, or is the exception of these goals, yet for the rest of the years, must their life be taken into account? If the result of a three-percent probationary period is in less than 1%, will the other two years of financial policy have to produce a total of 3% left to zero? If during the past three years of economic policy, are the members of the minus one, will the first year of financial policy be to consider keeping the target of survival? Does it not count, or is it counted as 0%, or should they be ignored completely? If so, how much consideration will be given to the financial policy of the new government of earlier years? What if it's the same government? It's obvious to me that if you give up an exception from the number 7 paragraph. They simply do not include targets for positive survival for every five years or for a decrease in debt every three years. Taking the ensuing ensuing years, it may put too much pressure on the increase in survival and in debt as early as the year after the release. As a result, however, the Council should take a request for an exception seriously and be subject to strict conditions, to comply, and not to give annuity for more years than necessary. In this review, it is possible that such a warrant is being given for too many years. However, it is the lawgiver's will that he be taken into account as an exception. It will require a clearer review of this arrangement, both in order to allow space to follow the leave period in order to compensate for negative survival or debt collection, and to clearly state that the new financial policy of each government needs to be taken into account before, or not, and particularly on leave. I'm not going to think too much of a share, but there's an inexplicable range that goes up to 0.8%, and it can be emphasized that the maximum cost range is based on 1% interest abnormalities, which, in the opinion of the larger section. It simply means that the budget vector will not be fully replaced if economic forecasts fail, but it will go proportionately on the spending range depending on the worse outcome than expected. This is an excellent goal, but it still holds governments in the straitjacket of their own financial policy. Substitution in financial policy is then not an attempt to support the need to validate the revision under official financial law in relation to the conditions outlined in Article 10. The law. It is not an effort to explain why the present situation is a economic crisis or national threat. It is not an attempt to explain to you what available options you are trying to take or what specific resources are available. The very argument is that the review can be classified as an economic crisis or national problem in which there has been a much greater fluctuations in the Icelandic economy in the past, not even the current situation of the Icelandic economy. I agree with a financial body that the motive for a financial review can only be based on the fact that a valid financial policy is faulty. It does not expect a recession in the economy, but the evidence does not provide a legal review. On the other hand, I believe in common sense as well as the fact that people admit and correct their mistakes. It is normal to correct financial policies. However, the changes presented are not correct in my opinion. The unsuspect range should be estimated from the degree of variation, and this should provide an accurate uncertainty margin in the other direction as well if all works out better. In this way the classical temptation problem that has characterized the government of Icelandic finance can be prevented. Although financial advice is positive for the improvement of financial policies, there is not much difference between a housefly and a fish fly, which is obvious, when the goal is to make the dream come true. On the basis of government law, they are far from what is presented in revised financial policy. The chapter on reevaluation received special commendation, for there is much more to be done to improve. In the table on re-evaluation, total increases are summarized without further explanation. When explanations appear in the main points of a meeting of a financial committee, it is not in accordance with the fact that such information is presented at closed meetings. Also mentioned is the need to take action on 7◯25 billion to improve the quality of the state budget, again without explanation. Are biographies taken into account? It is said that changes due to the government's actions in terms of collective agreements have been made in particular, but there is no further question as to what that assessment changed compared to the previous strategy. The changes have an effect on e.g. to have a greater impact in rural areas than in the country from costs that may be reflected in the lower supply of rural society, however, this is unclear because the economic breakdown of this changing financial policy is also expected to have an impact. A paper with a bill to legalize public financial matters states, by permission of the president: A press conference shall be submitted at the General Assembly, thus laying the groundwork for more intensive planning of the Parliament through the development and implementation of public financial policies. At the same time, the conference treatment of financialism contributes to [the] transparency end up leading up a financial debate and inquiry to reveal the context of financial policy goals and how it is expected to be achieved. The aims of financial policy are set out in a table on public financial policies and subsequent numbers. A successful policy according to figures is for the purpose of change, a decrease in debt and payment, which contributes to economic stability. Suggesting the changing financial policy clearly changes the goals of change, reduces debt, adds two teams to the aims of expansion growth that add uncertainty and vague targets of survival if economic growth is to be more than predicted, however, depending on the question: How should the Senate surveillance of financial policy be adjusted in any way compared to these goals? What is the context of these objectives and baseline laws on public finances on sustainability, security, stability, stability and transparency? Of course, financial advisers in their final statement that changes in current financial policy are in accordance with baseline values and conditions for the review of financial policy and added to the meeting of budgetary committees that the baseline values had become the theme of the whole process. This does not mean, however, that the product itself, finance policy, meets the point of B. The progress, however, is obvious, so joy is to be observed even in a faraway country. I believe, however, that a review of financial policy is necessary, not because of the financial breakdown that the government considers itself to be dealing with, nor is it really because of the economic outlooks that financial legislation considers as a basis for a review. The need for revision is also not due to the weaknesses in the economy that are collected in the reviews. The need for review is due to a problem that is not taken into account by the public financial legislation, that the financial policy adopted at the council was simply faulty, that it does not take into account the recovery of the economy. So I consider this review, not as an example for the review laws on public finances, but as yet another example of mismanagement. The greater part seems to have learned from that mistake, making changes in the government's proposal, where the government is allowed more space, and then the more part takes a measure of responsibility there, to maintain that scope, but it will only be used for the purpose, of course, to reach the general financial goals. I am not experiencing so much optimism that the greater part gives such support, for as shown in recent news reports, changes in the Lord's Prayer were announced, and they may be symbolic in this context. The government, however, is repeatedly subject to temptation, but the Allied must prevent the government from falling into that pit and freeing us from that evil so that I now finish financial policy and approach the financial program, where there is a limited discussion of one of the chief government policy. Again, there is a tremendous lack of transparency. Once again, there are some things that the government financial law says have to do. Again, I propose that this financial program be referred to the government. The General is not expected to accept such a financial program. There are a number of factors that can be said on the part of a budget of 2020/2024, up and down and down and down and down to the end, where there are no conclusions to be drawn. The reason for this is an enormous lack of transparency, mainly because three key elements are missing in a financial program. There is a lack of cost assessment of government operations, there is a lack of priorities and a lack of effective standards. Of these three, the standards have improved the most, so you can now praise something. The key point is priorities. The need for priorities is not new, as is discussed in a paper with a bill on public financial matters from 1992, which is referred to in a set will to have such an arrangement. Further words are spent in this discussion about the legal bill on public finances, on the priorities of projects that say, by permission of presidents: Then a contemporaneous debate on the proposals of the government on the spending of causes will increase the priority assessment and is further essential for a decision-makers to take a responsible position on public financial sustainableness and after events called for further information before legal legislation is submitted. And more: The priorities and emphasis on the topic fields for the coming years are seen in the progress of the project. Thus, the General shall determine a financial frame for an individual topic area, which is so further developed for individual categories of paint in the bill. In order for priorities within the topic range to be sufficiently targeted, the overall policy needs to be established by the topic areas (in each case) Our policy schedule is precisely lacking, and our priorities are not set. There are other factors here that can be considered only if people are interested. There is also talk about policy for the 20th sector. a law on public financial matters, and it also mentions priorities, e.g. policy aims first to ensure that there is a clear priority and focus on each subject and that there is a clear priority. There's more than I'm gonna let go of all of them. Public financial laws are very clear regarding priorities. Without priorities, we will not be able to achieve the results of professional policy development. This will not be any clearer than this, so I strongly call to mind that the next budget and financial agenda will be put on high priorities. It automatically returns all the other numbers. Once the priority list has been set up for each year, financial programmes are actually ready. There's only automatic bills in the amount shown each year. The only changes are to redefine that priorities, or to reevaluate an expense plan, or to reevaluate it in years. All the rest will be automatically calculated. The financial foundation is just this priority. The estimated costs and benefits are key to the Minister's annual reports, which assess the progress and benefits to be derived from the provision of funds. There the council finally learns how accurate government policy was, and we can learn from it for the next financial plan. This is very clear in the President's report on official financial law: A third is a decision made by policy makers about which way to achieve the desired goals. Here the cost, the impact, and the benefits of each one's efforts need to be considered and contrasted with their different factors. Without terms of cost, we have no idea what we're going to approve of here. We don't know anything about the frame of every subject, why it's the right number, or why it's not. Finally, effective standards are measured. In recent financial programmes, goals and measures have not been reported, but they also recognized that the standards do not necessarily measure how successful government policy has been. Many of them are very useful as information tools but, at the same time, are not useful in the context of financial schemes if there is no interference with government policy. Of the three factors that combine financial programmes, the criteria are the only ones that at least is trying to put in. While it is positive to see the extent of the scale improved from the first financial programme, it is still far off that the standards will be guided by government policies. However, considering the progress that has been made, it cannot be avoided to estimate that if the costs of government policy were also planned and priorities, the current budget may be useful to the Council, despite initially being inaccurate. There has been much talk about the financial process, the cycle that begins for every government through financial policies to at least Five years old. Financial policies are not expected to change unless there is an economic breakdown or national threat that is impossible to deal with with any available options. Economicism is an anchor for government decisions when it comes to expenses, revenues, investments, commitments, and the general government economy. The financial policy should be based on baseline data on sustainability, caution, stability, stability and transparency, and then each year the government provides a financial programme. Both the reviews and the production of financial programs seem to make certain misunderstandings about the plan because of the very plan. There have been opinions that the financial program is reviewed annually and that it can be made full of changes. This is a misunderstanding because financial programs are to promote government policy in specific issues. Government policies are clearly under way and, of course, to be part of the ideal period. Therefore, e.g. the government deal. Thus, the budget is just as fixed as financial policy, but what changes every year in the plan is the cost of policy, and what its benefits are for the future, which can then affect priorities. It could be that in the next year, we learn that some project will be less expensive, and then we can post or speed up some of the other projects, or the benefits, will be greater that will compensate for the income and expenses of the later years that will affect our priorities again. In this case, the very key point is that the priorities of the tasks are not exhaustive, in relation to the budgets expected but that the list is longer, preferably much longer. Lowers on the list may include tasks that include e.g. not as accurately evaluated or evaluable as this can be achieved by the Committee's review. Thus, the reevaluation of financial programs is mainly due to a accuracy, since the first financial programme of the government is probably not a very accurate budget for the fourth year of policy, but two years later there is likely to be a much less doubt and a greater cost accuracy. New financial programmes are not to be translated into a new topic field. A new financial program is to be translated mainly by uplifted government costs. Each year a financial bill is presented that takes into account current financial programmes, where financial costs will be tested in budgets for the Council, then for the coming year. There, financial initiatives are further developed for the next year by means of a disintegrating cost plan. Government policy in a financial program to correct, e.g. Cartilage problems in the health system may be broken up in educational procedures, employment equipment, and remuneration. Each action would have a planned cost and an assessment of the impact of each operation toward the government's goal for caring for health care. Education measures may lead to a 10% increase in the number of newer students, a better means to yield a lower labour level, and the lack of workers, e.g. 50% in that year or something. Overall, the goal of the government is attained by a set set of financial standards. The minister's annual reports are then extremely important and complete the budget cycle. There the Ministers review the success of using the Senate funds to achieve the results they claimed they were going to achieve. Was the cost more or less? Was it greater or smaller? Did you pass the cost plan or not? Why and why not? If the financial programme does not have a cost assessment and a benefit analysis, the annual reports of Ministers are completely useless to assess the success of budgeting. They're useful today because it's at least here today. the status of the tests is measured, but its effectiveness is limited according to the effectiveness of the measurements itself. Finally, Ministers should submit at least every three years a report on likely development of community, employment, and environmental factors and demographics change to the next decades and their impact on survival, financial status and the commitment of public bodies. This report has not yet been submitted, but the figures it presents should be the basis for a variety of demographics in both financial and financial programmes. In this case, there are small reasons for how all of this should work. From the General opinion of the legislatures finally approved, the current presentation of government finance, financial plans, and financial laws is completely unacceptable. It is necessary to make fundamental changes in the format and repair the present range of transparency. That process begins at each Ministry in its own way with a regional policy. The policy is then sent to the executive who is expected to achieve the target of the policy. From there there are ideas of action - there may be ideas about more than one action to reach a particular objective - in addition to the ideas of the consultants themselves. These measures should all be cost-and-improved according to the agreed practices of the advisers. Once the Ministry has already received the suggestions of all the institutions for achieving target targets, each operation is assessed for cost and profit and the most effective action, even a collection of the most effective measures. Thus, a collection of measures allows to compare different scenarios with possible solutions. In this way, the total cost of achieving government goals can be combined, increasing transparency and precision in the implementation of financial schemes and budgets. One of the problems that present productions of both financial and financial programs is how much dolls have become. All too much of the material is an inaccessible text that is difficult to subtract from government policy. One of the costs of action is expensive, and setting priorities is precision, which takes fewer words to explain. In order to save space after all, more detailed reports of projects could be saved even on the Ministry's Web site. Finally, it should be followed by the synopsis of the Generals No. 51/145 of 2015 about the computer format of the Senate documents. A standard computer format would save countless jobs. It's a financial strategy as usual. The first financial program was conducted in 2016 for 2017/2021. That plan was 219 pages, discussed widely the policy and goals of each topic field, and contained no standards. The financial program we deal with here is 392 pages and you might think it would be more meaningful. While the Times on Economics are welcome by various sources, this proposal is just as meaningful as the first financial plan. The content required by the Parliament to make an informed decision on the budget for the next few years is simply lacking. I can quote my opinion on earlier budgets, where I say exactly the same things. They don't have your priorities. The cost analysis is missing not only for budgetary and financial programmes 2019-2023 but also for the 20188/2022 budget. Don't believe me, I'm a politician and in general I'm not trusted, but this has, like, been true. National Accounting to say about the Department of Economics of 20181⁄2022, with the permission of a president: While the aims and criteria for them are certainly based on the ideas and proposals of each subject's language and language class, they can be doubted that in all cases they are responsible for the detailed cost analysis so that they can be said to fit within the financial framework of the programme. That's a hell of a lot of words. We're getting suggestions on the costs of a specific topic of matter, and a National Reconnaissance simply says that it has no idea whether the frame will last or not, she doesn't know what we're going to agree with. In other words: If there is no cost - analysis, how can we know that the budgets are enough for the projects and results aimed at reaching the goal? I'm going to keep one chapter, about the collective agreements, that I might take in the second speech. [[Up front.]] I'm going to take the last section, on the suggestions of more things and the handling of the budgets, but wait excitedly for the collective agreements section. If only you want to get ahead of yourself, the Committee is the opinion of the driver next to you, but now it's more of a proposal and a legal hearing. On March 26, 2018, I gave a talk on a financial program that began with the statement that this was about an out - of - date financial program. As a result, a budget called out for reviews and brought in a number of visitors to discuss an out - of - date financial plan. Thursday, May 23, 2019 p.m. 14 The last guests came to a legal committee meeting for financial planning, outside recruitment. It was Sigríður Mogensen from the Society of Industrial and Stefán Björnsson and Haukur Steinn Logason of the Film Actors. The guests reviewed their reviews and various subjects of the software industry and answered the committee's questions. Then it was not until June 7th. which suggested a financial update finally came to the budget committee, to my eyes. Although it was completed until June 6, I did not receive it until June 7. There is an update that no reviews, an update that was immediately told would be made. This adjustment was introduced by a greater proportion of legal committees on June 19, about an hour before the committee was resolved. In general, the government's proposals and the majority of its share are diminished according to financial programmes. I would like to make some comments to the opinion of the committee of the greater part, though, that I agree to in part. In view of the greater part, the follow-up is referred to as a result of comments to the previous schedule. However, there is no mention of the key missing in the budget of priorities, but it does mention a greater part of the need to reimburse the report because of the step-by-step cost-benefit analysis. Without this cost-benefit analysis and priorities, we will always talk about some money numbers that will rise or decrease without knowing what the consequences will be. In view of the greater part, a detailed discussion on the opinion of a financial body and, in particular, led to the introduction of a straitjack press committee and to the fact that the plan is always being placed on the floor of financial growth goals. The current plan, as suggested by a greater proportion of the budget committee, still has the plan on the floor goal of financial policy development. Now, however, there is an inexplicable space that is some sort of attempt to slip out of the straitjacket. However, this does not make sense, for the uncertainty gap can only be used if the economy is subject to the current economic forecasts. It must not be used if government costs fail. Thus, there is no room for any predictions in the economy, but the government's plans will not be successful. Of course, we do not have government budgets, so we have no idea whether they will last or not after all. But this is still a straitjacket because if we had a government budget and everything depends on the economy rules, then financial programs are still on the floor of the financial policy of an offcoming policy. It seems natural to me that the analysis of more part on the development of government spending was done in 2011 when a major cut-off for the economic breakdown was just under way. That year is not a good measure of government spending, and as a result, a comparison of the trend of spending is not good. More parts make adjustments, many very good. Many people share in a recession from previously assigned interest rate. In other words, a smaller coin is used to do the same things, since it is not defined as what appears to fall off the board, and the list of priorities is still missing. It's, like, a... a reduction in the contribution to climate above one billion and a 1.5 billion off to health care outside the hospital, according to a financial program since March. However, in some cases, tasks that are subsequently performed are mentioned, e.g. the purchase of helicopters, edification of transportation, and delays in construction of a new land hospital. One of the most serious cases of nursing homes, however, was announced by a financial committee that they needed a budget of 1.1 billion. In 2023 and 3.5 billion dollars. In 2024, for those nursing homes that were going to be completed during the planned period, only in cash management. The majority contributes to reorganization of the language field to improve the utilisation of households such as good and blessed, but the amount proposed to the nursing and rehabilitation domains is totally meaningless. The amount of money in the second part of the budget is still missing, but it is not certain whether it needs management funds, since they may not be built where they are to be more useful, those who are already there. You don't know which direction to pull the amounts back or up, whether they need cash, or whether they can be used more effectively. It's just a guess, and in the same way, the amount of money in that subject is complete guesswork like anything else, but especially wrong in it because it's so obvious. Whether their goals go on, however, is all about whether they can solve the flow problem of the Land Hospital, which would then save a huge amount of money if it worked out well. There's a connection there with other topic areas - if we're doing well and going a lot better and costs less money - but for some reason, we're still in a kind of limbo on this topic field and this problem. The strangest suggestion, on the other hand, is a recession on the topic area of the general reserve and the specific means of budgeting. There, expenses are expected to decrease by 17.9 billion without reducing the general reserve. What specific arrangements are being made to reduce are currently not known, but it is considered for specific financial resources or tax subsidies. Emerging IRS on e.g. returning 10.2 billion, an amazing point that has not been made until economic pressures. Clearly, then, those who cheat on the taxes are to be given their share. However, it is not obvious that in this field of legal matters, the authors of a tax subset of a financial programme, by President's permission, have been identified as a tax authority against both direct documents that are considered to be true lost, e.g. because of bankruptcy, and indirect deductions for which the requirement is taken down certain things that have been found to show that it is likely not to collect. I don't think there's a strong tax control down there, and again there's 10.2 billion that I have no idea where to go. The most extensive feature of this topic area is about the estimated contributions to business and the extensions to which it seems in part to be the general reserve and, to a greater extent, something else. In any case, there are 18 billion who are not told in a financial program what to go on and disappear in order to correct the growth of a government fund. There are a lot of things in this subject. I don't know what those 18 billion were going to go on and why, on earth, they can just disappear without anything happening. Finally, we will consider the contribution to public development. This is the objective of a government contract to deliver 0.35% of the nation's income in 2022. However, this financial program aims to achieve 0.34% of the budget of national income for development. On the other hand, the government's policy under a financial program, where government policy is precisely costing and setting out goals and measures, is to avoid reaching the ends of the government covenant. According to some adjustments, the objective of the Treaty must be established next. Not now, but next time, when governments make measures to achieve their course, no, but next. This is a government financial program where we will not be able to see government policies in a more beautiful, preconceived way, the cost, and the profit - informed process, some list in which we could clearly see how governments are going to reach their targets. It's missing completely, maybe next time we'll get it. I doubt it, but I hope. I continue to be ashamed that public financial laws are ignored, for perhaps next time they will. I doubt it, but I hope. Our innovation companies are leaving the country because nothing changes. Maybe next time something's gonna change. I doubt that, but I keep hoping that if we stop trying, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u18	Mr. President. I would like to respond to this story of the committee's opinion, which was a long read on how things were supposed to be and could be better. First, I'd like to say that I welcome all the objective criticism and upbuilding indications, but I think it's a problem. A senator normally goes far too far to describe what is somehow happening to us. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about two things. First of all, if we put all this work on financial and financial policies in some way in relation to the purpose of the law as if things were in the same shape as that of a dog. A senator describes here, where did it appear to us in our day - to - day lives, in families, in homes, in state funds, in rural areas, and in our businesses? Where does it appear in the economy? All of this work is done to help us achieve economic stability, that we can work on our long - term goals, that public financial policies have failed to support stability, and that social planning will become easier. It is entirely possible to criticize the need to reevaluate and implement new plans when the assumptions change. You can say, "You shouldn't have built on these grounds." We knew that there are other factors that we could better have proposed and that we here would not be able to reprogram our plans if we had just built on some other basis. But where is the damage? Where's the damage? Where are the high interest rates, inflation, unemployment, and debt? Where are the local, domestic, and corporate problems? We must not forget why we're doing all of this here. That's what I want to pray for. A senator to state. I'll come in to the other thing later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u19	A respectable president. It is about the very essence of stability and stability in public funds. So I forgot to read it, but now I can read what is in the public financial paper with the permission of a president: ▪ Since 1992, a so - called framework of the budget has been developed. By the introduction of the organization, all participants in the budget process were aimed at taking into account government policy, which included. in the decision-making order, and to shoulder responsibility for necessary priorities and to choose between tasks. These goals have not completely been achieved. Therefore, it is suggested in the bill that the role and responsibility of all involved in the financial process, whether in the budget or in the implementation of budgets, be defined in a more direct way so as to identify the individual responsibilities. I'm saying that these factors need to be met by the law on government finance, the concern of which the secretary of finance is concerned, which is to answer local societies, citizens of this country, the General and the role of the government in the economic affairs of Iceland. When these things are missing, a core legal issue on public finances, they obviously do not achieve their purpose. As noted here, this has been attempted since 1992. This is not new. We know exactly how the budget has been here. It's been kind of a phase forward and back with a temptation problem, and I don't know what and what it's been used to describe how government of public finance has been. They have not been in stability at all. We all know in here that there's been some control over these matters. Once government laws began to be applied, the transparency of government funds is even worse than it was previously under budget. Then it was very clear what the legal rights of each paid team were. It's not anymore. It's been worse if something is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u20	A respectable president. I'm going to state completely against this senator's conclusion that we are not getting the desired goals at all. In the past, I believe that we have not seen such a change in the subject of government finance and have followed a new legal arrangement. It's been over and over, even though only at the council, all this discussion about budgeting and long-term plans. I'd like to point it out. A senator insists that the magazine provides a clue on May 24 of this year. with an article by Gylfi Zoëgi, in which he extols how we put for the first time this fundamental component of the economy, the workforce, the Secret Bank, and the government finance, together. I allow me to quote the article: "The behavior of control is like that taken from a textbook, " says Gylfi Zoëga, because now we slow down and we lower taxes. We need to increase our investment levels. This led to a responsible collective contract. So I completely disagree with the senator, and again I ask, "If it's so devastating, like, to me?" A senator is describing the consequences? Where are the consequences of our being in control of money? Does it merely show that we need to update our documents because the grounds have been broken, economic forecasts have been wrong? It can in itself be sorry for that. But where are the consequences, these negative consequences in the community, because we adopt the basis for the review of the programme? We simply said, "If this is what we're going to do, we're going to do it like this. " If they don't go along, we'll do it differently. We're adapting to a change of reality. What I was going to ask you. However, a senator says that it is the way he sees to it that with an uncertainty gap in debt, survival can be influenced. I haven't quite put my arm around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u21	A respectable president. What is the result? If financial change were not being done, the consequences would definitely be, as the financial Council pointed out. The reason for changing financial policy is that there was not expected to be a decline in the economy. It is simply a defect in financial policy as it was. [[Up front.]] If she had been right at first, she would not have had to have changed her, then financial policy would have been clear about what would happen if things were going to subtract. Some of the consequences would have been prevented if we had followed this faulty financial policy, so it can be commended that it is courageous to fix those faults. Fine with that. The discussion has changed, and I'm going to take a little bit of attention and commend myself. I still see some of the things here that are having an old-fashioned discussion, but I'm going to tell you all the feet here that part of the change is that I've been leading it. It's just that way. Why is there an uncertainty gap in debt? How does this help? GDP is reducing, and it affects the debt target of GDP, so if gross domestic production falls to a large extent, it is good to have space to have a higher level of debt than expected in financial policy, simply if GDP decreases that much. Or it may be inexpensive to set up a little more debt than to walk more on the rest of a different arrangement or how it is handled. It is simply to deal with the possibility that GDP could drop more than debt and have room in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. Hv. The senator discussed Article 10. Like us, though, we discussed a little about 1st. and linked it with the opinion of a financial body, much like the majority of the members of the committee, where we draw it out as well. A candidate entered his speech, counting the basis for reviews and changes in current financial policy, that this is in accordance with the baseline and the conditions of a financial review policy. Careful and straitjacketing as it used to be. A senator may come in for this reason to reconsider. Then he's going through a space of uncertainty. I'm only tracking myself through the talk to find out what I want to do in a previous answer, which is when rules outweigh goals. I find that there's some good interests in my mind. A senator when he talks about priorities. It's important. It is part of policy priorities. As soon as we want to be efficient, we are involved in achieving our goals and measuring the results from goals. We are not necessarily effective and at the same time efficient. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he envisions in the real world that we work through all the lawsuits, the seminars, the Ministry, and the legislatures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u23	A respectable president. I'll go over it a little bit again. I did a little research in the talk, but perhaps in a somewhat rapid manner. The Ministry puts the policy and works out of the government's government covenant. To achieve the aims and policy set by the Ministry simply contact the managers, agencies and other organisations who are expected to handle the activities of the projects that provide them with ideas of how to reach where the government is heading. There's a lot of ideas there. They are always classified as being initially to see if they are clearly good or bad in terms of a gross cost analysis. Gradually, a better and more accurate list is made without too much expense. The most obvious tasks, e.g., are often clearly identified. with the greatest benefit or the most inexpensive and simple. By gathering all the projects and filters together to the Ministry of Economic Affairs that then puts them down for each topic field after the priorities it receives from its advisers, we have a long list, in fact, a much longer list than the financial program that is good, because at the council we would also like to see what other projects are profitable in other contexts than perhaps just financial, perhaps out of based plans, or something about the body that we might want to pull up on our changing proposals or finance just to get down on those projects. Thus, simply a list of measures related to that government policy is distributed over a year by cost assessment in sums up to the amount of money needed in the topic fields. If there's been billions of them in that field, we'll see how far down that list goes. [[The president calls.]] Red and yellow tasks, etc. to determine if they are added or dropped if they fall out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's a worthy speculation because I really appreciate it, like a boy. A senator actually came into his speech, that a policy process is a learning process. We're getting into a little bit of this system, which is framed into public financial laws. Hv. A senator made the rules stronger, but we must always remember that we use this as a tool, not losing our ability to serve some of the construction projects, but using the tool. It's very important. Hence, we must also respect the fact that it is not perfect. I'm gonna take an example. In the circumstances that exist. A senator went over in connection with a review of policy, i.e. the sudden down cycle as a bang. A senator did a fine show, we face up to it if we are going to evaluate the results of our goals. We have a goal for overall survival, as the law expects. Of course, we're on the floor of the policy, about 30 billion out of time. Now it's so important that there's a harvest of revenue in our income carts. It's all said, we got some good calculations on it, and then we're faced with the question: Do we want to achieve goals in harmony with our schedule? Now it should be noted that some of those projects are legalized in our large transport system, that our tax dollars is very much involved, and so is the budget. [[The president calls.]] How Effective Are We? And where are we going to succeed? It would have been unwise not to slow down and stick to the goal of a plan to feed the economy. Or do we want to be truly holy and effective, saying, "We are going to get this benefit? " [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u25	A respectable president. I never said that either. Hv. A senator says that these are worthy speculations, but they are also legal. It's been put in law because it's a well-known method. There's nothing to invent. As I noted, from 1992 it has been tried to establish this arrangement for good reasons. When it is a financial recession, when a financial plan is set up in this way, with priorities and cost - making analysis, we immediately see what projects fall out of place. We can immediately see the benefits we gain and the benefits that come from not returning the rest of the money. We can immediately see the benefits, though, that we borrow from these projects in relation to our growth. We can immediately see how this will help to improve production and to reduce the cost of all projects. That is what we gain from having a priority list of priorities, cost estimates, and benefit analysis, although this is not accurate. We always know that there's something wrong back and forth. Some projects are in plus and others in the minus and all that stuff. It is just something that we learn to work along with and to learn to do more accurately as time passes. But not to do so is simply not to follow the law, for it is very clear in them that this is the key to achieving the goals mentioned here, of a targeted plan, of informed decision-making for the Council, of how we agree with 800 billion and what that means. Much of it is a legal project, yes, and there can be a reliable priority and an improvement in efficiency of legal projects. It is part of an action that could arise and make changes, such as in the SEC. [[The president calls.]] We have to start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Although I don't agree with all the things I had. paritaprevir This is where Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson presented him with a slightly different tone, and a man feels a little better sitting under his talk than a speech given to a representative of the 1st small part that was spoken earlier, where an empty darkness lay ahead. We're gonna go for a second. A senator both knows that he is not. It's the face of the committee. A senator's fine as far as he can go, and it's fine. A senator will keep us in shape. He has sometimes called himself a formalist. [[The point is: No, there are others.]] Hv. A senator has, in fact, agreed, but let it lie. [[Yeah.]] I'm not going to go that far. But it is often good to be a formalist, and I think it is often and often not negative, especially when it comes to these matters. What I feel, however, is missing from the committee's opinion and was missing from a talk. The senator is the political bitch. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator would like to go on the development of government funds and how he can provide an organization of tax issues for the development of government expenditures in individual lawsuits, etc. That way, I can't figure out every Piratar and bad guys. The senator wants to go. It's my problem, and I wish it would. A member of the Parliament deals with this very briefly. I realize that we are running out of time, but can he just give me a quick answer to how he envisions the development of the government? [[The president calls.]] When it comes to spending money, what should we stress for the coming years? How does he want to see them develop?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much for asking. I'd like to ask one question back, because that's what I'm thinking about: Is it? A senator agreed that there was a lack of priorities and cost - making analysis in a financial program? I apologize for not having things in the committee opinion, it was simply a very small time to write it. Although I have 17 pages, I would have liked to write more. I had a long list of points I had to let go. As far as politics is concerned, the answer is extremely short and simple, and I don't need all two minutes to answer that question. My political is a professional business. Therefore, I call for this priority list because it is the basis for understanding how a mixture pays and takes on, what benefits and benefits we gain from efficiency in both taxes and fees. When that is the case, my experience clearly shows what adjustments to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u28	Mr. President. I'm not that close, really. Maybe I wasn't expecting clear answers. Then there's a problem. A senator and the Piratars as a whole have no particular tax policy, no particular policy on how they want the development of government spending and on which litigation classes are to be stressed. They'll just give you the money, but they want the form right. I can do the right thing, but I want politics to do, and it's a political decision how we put our priorities and in what way we put our money on a joint project. I also wish for it. A senator just explains to me one thing that's getting in my way. There are two financial changes proposals available here. Hv. A senator has joined members of Parliamentary Congress to propose a change in financial policy, and it is on request. 1954 but on deck. 1879 is another adjustment proposal for financial policy from then on. Senator. If there's not a complete inconsistencies between these two changes, I'm missing everything. And now I ask why. Councilman: Which suggestion puts it? A senator for our work? Will he avoid being in company with others? Councilmen retreated and stick to their own suggestions? I'm not going to have a physical opinion about it, but I find it odd when the senators make two adjustments in their own way on the same topic. [[The president calls.]] Now I'm asking for help. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u29	A respectable president. With regard to policy issues, priorities, and so on, Piratars were the only group that set out terms for elections and can be found in long - term languages that are far beyond those that can be taken into account in two years. The priorities have not changed significantly, yet they have changed in terms of the amount. These adjustments are on two documents because we don't completely agree on all the factors. That's where we need to focus on the change from the present. It's hard to put up a financial and financial adjustment proposal on these tablets, since -- No, no, it's not inconsistent if you just take into account the numbers and lines that change. [[The point is: They are so inconsistent.]] They did not agree where taxes were supposed to be raised, so they had to make a special statement. [[Up front.]] There's a very specific problem in the development of a Senate document that's causing the confusion that's going on here. The change is only two lines away, one on the other, the target of a change in my proposal and an uncertain range in debt. Then there's space in general in the other making. So these are three separate items that do not go into any cross because they are just apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to begin here on a proposal for a synopsis resolution of a change in the council's resolution of No. 10/148, the financial policy for 20181⁄2022. Jehovah's Witnesses, No. 123/2015, who came into force on 1 January 2016, is aimed at improving the legal environment of public funds, which contains lessons from the experience of the past decades and the experience of other countries. The importance of an objective assessment of independent experts, financial councils, is stated in the implementation of financial policy, and this is laid down in 13 measures. The law. The laws form a comprehensive setting for public financial matters. The General Assembly and the Council have endeavored to adopt the new procedures shown in the law. So it could be said that a certain period of testing went into operation of the law until now. In the short period of time the law has been the rule of government management, it can be said that first the law is tested to review policy measures when the longest economic growth in the nation's history is completed and we are involved in a downturn that is uncertain how deep or prolonged it will be. It must be considered unfortunate that in these circumstances the first reaction to the government is to revise new financial policies. Undeniably, this concern is that in the future it will be a rule rather than an exception that under circumstances such as these will be the reaction to reconsidering policy. This points to the National Association of Iceland, which suggests that too soon a reexamination of policy has been made, which may provide an unfortunate example of future reactions. According to Article 10 of the Treaty on Public Economics, rich reasons need to be in place to revise current financial policies. The law mentions in situations beyond control, economic breakdown and national security as a valid basis for reexamination. In this regard, it should be noted that in a paper with a bill that became a government law, it says that it was a law. Around 10. that financialism, on the other hand, will not be revised for the reason that its goals are not reached because of the general weakness of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the current policy. The person listed here feels that it is necessary to define what is considered such a fault. Such conditions may be defined using specific sizes set out as a proportion of land production and other important national terms to make them appear to be a distraction to current financial policy. These criteria have not been defined, so they must always be evaluable. This reduces the ability of the General Assembly to carry out its legal role in the implementation of financial policy and financial programmes. It is necessary for governments to recognize the proportions and sizes that could have an impact on financial policy. The extent of the overall problem needs to be determined by analysis to require a review of financial policy. I think it's too ecstatic as it appears to us today. That's how financial and economic ministers said to the first. The point is that it would be wise to reevaluate policy, but this alone is not enough, in contrast with the goals of public finances. They show that the purpose is to set general goals for the development of public funds that are broadly at peace. Thus, the aims of economic policy are only revised if circumstances are out of control, such as national interest or serious economic failures, as mentioned earlier. This contributes to the long-term economic balance and provides the basis for the use of human resources and resources. The financial and economic minister's word to reevaluate policy because of the common rationality of the policy has to blow it off. The Ministry's professional analysis must be established on when the need for review of policy is needed and the result or allowed deviation must be within the limits established by the General Assembly. Under what circumstances is the magnitude of the events needed to be reviewed? It is necessary to review analyses and scenarios that help the General evaluate any economic events that have become large, individually, and collectively, that there is a reason to promote new financial policy. It would have been reasonable to contribute a specific chapter in the synonym where these factors are considered. Then there is the financial Council that gives the law under the Council its review on whether or not the rightness of current policies, such as Article 10. The law. The effects on the public, family, and businesses should be displayed in stage photos. That would be a tricky, normal presentation, which would greatly strengthen the discussion. During their short life span, the government has established financial and financial policies that did not prove to be sufficiently cautious and that are not in the spirit of the law of government government government, which, as it were, stuck in its own home-made straitjacket, was the case, the financial Council had warned, as well as the government being here on behalf of the Central Party. It should be remembered that economicism was just over a year old and that it took the government no longer to make itself back on its own. It may be clear that the case was not to be surprising, since governments, such as financial advisers, employment trades, trade agreements, and industrial organizations, warned that the uncalled media, could not continue indefinitely, and therefore, a far more cautious approach to financial policy than was done on the part of the government. The government chose to ignore what it had been warned about by the best - known. Clearly, the government did not make enough money but chose to believe that the longest economic growth in Iceland would never end. Iceland's business council strongly comments on changes in current financial policy. The Council believes it is the result of excessive optimism on the final course. Under these circumstances, the European Union of Iceland, feels that it is bad for the credibility of the economic policy to the future, how governments dealt with current policies. It is unfortunate that for the first time that this arrangement has been established in public finance, which is to provide increased leadership and firmness, this arrangement should immediately be reviewed. I don't think, Mr. President, and I'm not optimistic, that this time the government is better able to achieve a change in current financial policy, as there is evidence that the government is still not aware of the situation, at least not applicable for tourism status. In this way, Iceland's Habitat project allows 11% reduction in travel service, while tourists assume that the recession may reach up to 20% between years of age, up to a much greater decline in tourism. During May a reduction in foreign tourists'arrival in the country was about 24% compared to the same month last year, which was the greatest reduction since the start of speech. In view of the greater part of the budget of current financial policy, since March 2018, it is noted that the vast number of airlines offered to Iceland is still at the hands of two airlines, and this increases the risk of tourism. Everyone then knows what happened to one of these two airlines, WOW, and they're really bankrupt for one of two main reasons that this is a revised financial policy. It can be said, then, that the government was actually aware of the risks existing but chose to overlook it, thereby breaking one of the basic policies, which is cautious. The majority were concerned about the increased risk of travel in the development of government financial policy but did nothing to worry about it. Section 3 pointed out in her opinion of current financial policy that in view of the high risk factors, a greater proportion of legal committees were to evaluate him on aberrant. That's not what they did. In view of the situation that has come up, it is important that ministers highlight further variations in financial and financial contributions as well as in other important national interests. In addition, it is necessary to reason on the basis of these decisions made by the government. In its review of this proposal for the conversion of Congress No. 10/148, for financial policy before 2018-022, establishes that the changes in economic development or the economic downturn that is now begun in the economy as reflected in Iceland's latest predictor are not a valid basis for review of current financial policies. This is interesting in view of the fact that the government has in its own language and support for the review of financial policy, particularly two factors that require review. There is, on one hand, a recession in a travel service due to the failure of the WOW airline and the failure of a hairy airline. The financial adviser believes that what is added and at the same time the revision is a weakness in financial management to teach and indicate that the contractions could become even more sharp and longer than the latest economic forecasts assume. The Council considers a fundamental weakness in the government's financial administration, that is the problem reflected in the review of its financial policy rather than in the weak economic leaders. Economic development is lower than the government expected, and this is why policy need to be revised. The government hasn't expected this in its budget and income plans. A financial conference points out that if this is not done, it may be necessary to reevaluate financial policy in a short period of time. Clearly, the government has ignored financial recommendations to provide the basis for financial policies as being too positive. In addition, it is proper to point out in the opinion of a financial body that governments have not always given baseline values properly in practice and coverage. A financial agency has noted that economic policy requires that political emphasis be expressed in a specific way when it involves national goals and influence economic trends. This is especially true now on the matter of maintenance and the expected amounts of money. However, government policies and policies are low on what will be changed. So here again, with the weaknesses of policy development, it is started even though policy development was intended to be strengthened. As a result of reviewing financial policy, there will be a clear discussion of government promises, analysis of new policy plans, and the expected preparation of income and expenditures. The financial policy is thus to stand alone and be thorough enough. Clearly, the level of financial policy does not depend on the expectations it should have for it to be clear enough and accurate. While governments increase policy fairness and shed light on the problems ahead, they try to improve the process and decision making here the weaknesses that would have been needed to deal with. The European Union of Iceland, in its review, points out that the government's response to financial tips has been limited, the crisis is near. Although this proposal has made adjustments, the economic forecast is used in full - sight, it is shortsighted to assume that the decline will be temporary and the economy will be fully developed in the next year. It should be noted that the government determined one - sided and without any consultation to reduce the contribution to the country's Slurpee Fund. The decision taken by the rural communities was taken by surprise, and they had expected cooperation between state and rural society on these matters in the public financial laws. The government has now changed its plans, following the harsh protests of local government officials. Part 3 of the hope that there will be ongoing communication between the state and the rural community in the form of consultation, as is reserved on official financial laws. The big question of reviewing government financial policy is the credibility of the economic forecasts. The government laid the basis for the development of the current financial policy of the Economic Standards, as it should. However, I do not believe that the government has taken adequate precautions in the use of this projection, especially in terms of the length of economic growth and the opinion of experts in the longest economic history of the country. A more optimistic forecast than that, for example, is the case with the Economics. Predicts the intelligence departments of Iceland and Anion banks. A question mark can be set on how little the influence of tourists has been reduced in the Habitat project. In addition, the Lab's personal consumption is optimistic in view of increasing unemployment and recession in exporting sectors. Thereafter, the Hagbroom assumes a 2.4% rate of private consumption for a year that must be considered somewhat steep compared with all clues. The autumn may become heavy, and winter may likewise become quite heavy. It's not seeing a soft contact landing in the fall and winter. It's coming, too. ... totheadvancationofArion Bank. There's a clear evidence of coalization of real estate markets. April 1st. sold in 84% of the apartments, and in buildings there are about 4,000 apartments. It cannot be seen that the Hagues Office's predictions are sufficiently influenced by the secondary effects of integration in tourism, e.g. effects on investments. It is important to keep a close eye on the real estate market in the months to come. We are expected to reduce the security of real estate for the next 12◯18 months. The effect of another investment will be seen next year, in favor of the analysis department of Arion's bank that next year there will be continued recession, an investment resulting in greater impact on the future. The bank is predicting a higher level of unemployment and inflation. Iceland Bank's analysis department also believes that the Hauspicab is too optimistic for its own good. In particular, the bank names the secondary effects and believes that the valley will still be hardened. If all clues and forecasts are read together, the analysis department fears financial advice that over-priority predictions are still being based. The conclusion is that all three major business bankers paint a darker picture of the situation than Hagroom does and puts the foundation of financial policy. According to one reference work, economicism based on the most optimistic forecasts is going against baseline security standards in public finance. The majority of the budget committees have responded to this in some way by increasing the uncertainty range from 0.4% of land production to 0.8%. It is wise to increase the scope of uncertainty in the financial policy, since uncertainty has increased since the Economics'budget was published. As the economic situation worsens, this will not be controlled for reasons other than economic declines. Similarly, policy plans have been made that if the economic progress becomes more economic development than is currently predicted, the remainder of the rest will be increased in line with growing income in interest. Part 3 seems to be clear from Haust's predictions, but there is also a need to clarify more fully how such waste will be calculated and how to assess the extent to which income will result from economic growth and other changes. Section 3 suggests that with the introduction, governments have more self-importation or complete space to assess the remainder on their own basis than where the Council is responsible for policy development, a greater proportion of the budget should be agreed on how to proceed, otherwise it is impossible for the Council to perform its own surveillance. With a predetermined space of uncertainty, which is a greater proportion of the budgetary committees suggest that there will be an increase, as above to the aims of the annual financial programmes, the government's resolve and commitment that the aim of each annual financial programme must be better than that of the current policy. Although economic forecasts may be inferior to what is expected in the Haust account, governments can use this capacity to correct official survival to the same degree. This defined uncertainty range is intended solely for this purpose. No further rules can be found in the refinement of the Senate arrangement on the part of the government. Thus, a third part of it feels that a greater proportion of the budget should explain this law more clearly and set the rules for its application in its committee so that the government cannot interpret the changes to individual economic and economic institutions according to their own. It cannot be seen that the Council can perform its own surveillance if, in this case, the officer of the government can, on his own, address the specific guidelines. Section 3 encourages more of the Committee to deal with this in accordance with General policies so that professional requirements are established. As a matter of fact, I'd like to be considered to be a European Parliament and for the responsibility of the Generals, and therefore it is not quite possible that the Council's policy will be carried out without surveillance and conditions established by the General Assembly. In recent years, government expenditures have increased as a result of much growth and taxation. The government simply trusted that income would grow continuously during the lifetime of existing financial policy. It was too optimistic, as it is today. It's coming even. ... ina review of the Association of Professional Affairs. Despite the rise and increase in tax returns, government funds were expelled with minimal access. It can hardly be considered a legitimate financial government. The newborn had the best way of living for the downtrodden. It now appears that the income of the state's budget is greatly reduced and that it could reduce by up to 3,35,4 billion dollars. every year, i.e. Some 256 billion in the season without counter-important measures, therefore, will be run by government funds for the next few years. How disappointing it is that as economic leaders suddenly fail, new financial policies need to be introduced! Yet, it is positive that governments are making good use of their efforts to pay off debt, both to strengthen the state's office and to reduce interest costs. It should be agreed that the establishment of the State Fund should take into account the economy. The problem with the principle of living is that it does not take into account the economic situation at any given time, so that when there is a high economic crisis and tax returns, it is very simple to meet the criteria for survival, even with the high cost interest we have seen in recent years. In turn, meeting the principle is much more difficult when economicists change and relax in the economy, as is now happening. If the survival criteria had taken into account the economy, the government would have had more leeways to bring back the rest today because of the changes in the economy. The wealth has a role as the economy meets. Adding to public investment is positive in contractions. Similarly, a wealth of government should be maintained when the economy is successful. On the top of the economy, however, government expenses were ignored. Just over a year ago, when we discussed government financial policies until five years ago, a great deal of optimism was maintained in the government home. A continuing leap, a continued spending policy, and a state fund that would continue to be expedient was emphasized. More than a year later, the real world will be confronted by the government. The result is that income is greatly contracted, and government funds will be thrown at a angle for the next four years. The most interesting thing about this revised financial policy is that as soon as the next year, the government, based on the national ideals of the Habitat, felt that it was the same government and did not listen to expert warnings for a year. During thawing hours, expenses will increase in the rhythm of increasing taxes due to more economic activities. This results in more public living by taking it aside from the economy and reducing the overall demand. In this way, the situation can be turned around during recesses, as is the case today. Tax companies contract, but expenses can be held firmly, thus creating a tail that counteracts the demand contractions. The middle class has stressed the need to reduce the charge on people and businesses, since Iceland is considered to be a high tax state. It is obvious that governments need to consider how to make better use of the funds they are making. The changing economic outlook gives increased emphasis on priorities, efficiency and management of public affairs. It is important that changes are not intended to reduce the capacity of the state funds to meet the needs of services for the welfare and infrastructure. Governments must fulfill their promises regarding collective agreements. They or social stability should not be mixed with these or other factors during adaptation procedures. The European Union of Iceland points out that over 0.5% per year, much less than average, institutions will have to meet with them. This is most damaging to health care and health care at high pay costs. A third part of this points to a careful consideration of the government's revenues as soon as there is a hold on the budget. It should therefore be noted that the government has decided to delay the decline of the bank tax. Governments play a vital role in softening the impact of the decline. Therefore, governments must not compromise their plans for taxation. Then there is plans for increased government projects that are positive at this point. The government has been spreading its state plans since its start. The middle class has criticized this course, and now it is an opportunity to disappear. Business organizations point out that there is now room to reduce expenses without cutting. We need to be increasingly looking to neighboring countries, streamlined administrations, and using other management forms to improve efficiency, such as health and education. At the same time, the organization points to the importance of learning the lesson from the last down cycle, while during 2009, 2011, taxes were raised and public work was postponed. Well, ten years later, taxes are still high, and the public needs are running at hundreds of billions. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say that the government is about to initiate a reexamination of its financial policy, which has only been with a nation for over a year. The purpose seems to have been to maintain a policy of spending despite the predictable recession of the government's income. It is stated in the review of the budget that it is difficult to see that the proposed recession did not correspond to the severity of the law on the scope of economic failures. The Council concludes that this is one of the economic and economic weaknesses of the government. A financial agency has confirmed that when the government decided to reexamine financial policy, it was not a reason for this. Since then, it has been found that the likelihood of an even greater contractions has become evident, so it may create a situation where a reexamination of policy is justified. Regarding previous financial policies, it has been observed that governments have not given the baseline value of their work and their coverage. In this regard, it can be noted that during a recent visit by the Directorates NATO to the country, his opinion on behalf of the Community was made clear about the importance of staying at baseline, especially in times of trial. Here, one of the largest and most complex organizations in the world provides important guidance on how such organizational principles are directed professionally and how they succeed. Hence, governments will continue to appoint the baseline laws on public financial matters to the extent they have in order to achieve the desired results. Mr. President. I've closed my coverage of financial policy, and I'm going to initiate a proposal for terms of terms of financial resolution for the year 2020,2024. The budget proposed by the government in March did not prove to be long - lived, and it can be said that it was broken by the time it was submitted. The forecast was out of harmony with reality. The plan was submitted during the period of uncertainty in the economy. Air travel was very uncertain, and only a few days after the protocol was submitted, one of the two Icelandic international airlines, WOW, went bankrupt, but there were signs that it would happen. Work agreements were free and less economic growth in the international economy, affecting demand for Icelandic export products. Under these circumstances, the government should have provided caution in a strategy in view of increasing uncertainty in the economic climate. It should have produced more scenarios that would have drawn up different situations along with logical support for the way the government chose to go. A general body of elders would thus have had a better view of the situation and thus made it easier to take a stand on financial programs. In view of this, the government's financial government is certainly a matter of concern. She has had to revise her financial policies and bring up a financial program that became out - of - date a few days after it was submitted. In some cases, financial advisers have even Showing weaknesses in the government's financial administration, the procedure for public financial policy has not been difficult enough. The financial and economic minister said, when he proposed a financial programme in March, that he realized that the basis of the plan could change. This suggests that the government was aware of the weaknesses in the plan and, nevertheless, put it forward. Next thing I'd like to describe is what I call the crisis in tourism and a great influence on the national structure. Iceland's new up - to - date National Institute of Economic Organization reports that previously estimated economic growth in 2019 is eliminated, with the expected reduction of 0.2%, mainly due to a 2.5% reduction in export. It should be noted that this has been a tendency to unpredict detoxification. This is likely to increase the contractions. For other occupations, it is necessary to have abnormal predictions, e.g. Business and services and influence other articles in these areas. In relation to the plan, there are no stage shots in this regard. During amazing periods of time, tourism has stopped being small in formats to the largest export of the country. Today, the reversal in the economy shows black and white in what challenges to tourism have a major impact on the national structure. In such a year's journey, it is unwise to reduce expenses for tourism, thus weakening the support of the article when it is necessary to strengthen it. The budget assumes 18% cut-off on tourism budgets in the visibility range. A road to the air development fund is gaining weight. The sea has the goal of supporting the development of a new flight route to Iceland so that international airports can be established at Akureyri and Egeils. This contributes to the distribution of tourists across the country. This task is especially important now, as the group of traveling overseers meets, and the publication of this article is lax in the country. I believe this is an unwise arrangement. The majority of the Committee on These Joints need more access and information. Tourist officials believe that there is a much greater decline in tourism ahead than previously thought; it will be up to 20% and even higher in the country. During May a reduction in foreign tourists'arrival in the country was about 24% compared to the same month last year, which was the greatest reduction since the start of speech. The government's response to this fundamental work programme can late be considered a forwarder policy. In 2018, the travel service has increased by one 2%, I think, and has produced a large proportion of new jobs throughout the country. The government has entertained ideas of moving tourism from the lower level of cost taxation, 11%, to the top level of the tax, 24%. Clearly, such ideas are unwise and would further undermine the competitiveness of the article. In Denmark, the value of extra tax was increased in the tourism business and took the Danish tourism ten years to recover. Iceland is an expensive tourist country, the most expensive destination in Europe, and another of the world's most expensive. Any ideas of increased payment on travel services will have a negative effect on the article and will make it even more difficult. For the overall national structure, the consumption of tourism is becoming more important than before, since the growth of transport services can no longer be trusted through an increase in the number of tourists. The government has not provided a clear vision for travel. Increased financial contributions to this article are necessary. But increasing to 25 million is a positive step. K. Annually, from the early date of March, it has been suggested. It can be better, though, if necessary. Reduced donations to the topic area are a poor vision. The bigger growth of this article calls for vision and policy development. We need to get on the road right now. Data collections and research must be attacked that will be able to prepare all future policies. Decisions relating to such major sectors as tourism have become a source of data and research. In addition, in the post-marketing period, this article calls for increased energy. The longest economic growth in the nation's history is over, followed by a downturn that is uncertain how deep it will be or how long it will be. In recent years, government expenditures have increased as a result of much growth and taxation. Governments seem to have trusted that income would continue to grow. Despite the rise and increase in tax returns, government funds were expelled with minimal access. The new one had to make better money for the down cycle. It now appears that the income of the state's funds will be greatly reduced, i.e. some 139 billion people during the period with counter measures. On the contrary, the government has run, not an eco-efficiency policy during the season. Expenditures were increased in the case of high economic growth, and less expenses from the State are now being paid in terms of less economic growth. This is a thought - provoking point. As a general rule, it is reasonable to apply government spending policy to fluctuate the economic stability. I'm only going to take the next step towards the tax increases in the public under the merits of environmental and climate issues presented in this program. By permission of the president: There should not be an increase in taxes on the public in the country, that is, an improvement in the tax system. We'd rather look around and tax the wealthiest of the money we've ever seen, Mr. Katrín, said daughter of Jakobsdóttir, president of the left green, shortly before election in October 2017. One of the first works of the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was then raising a substantial amount of carbon. This year, the price is 5.9 billion. In the state's budget, and is still about to raise the price. Drivers are responsible only for about 6% of the EU greenhouse gas emissions, but they are made to pay nearly 90% of the emissions-related taxes listed here. The financial program presents a new tax that is justified by a reference to environmental protection. This is a specific waste charge for the price of every home and business in the country. In addition, the cost of greenhouse gases is new in the freezer. These new taxes are to be given $11.5 billion over the period. There is no explanation of what justifies these new taxes, and why the homes of the citizens and commercial companies are expected to carry these heavy taxes. The tax policy of this government is contrary to the Central Party's policy of moderation in taxation and thus provides efficiency and equality. It will not be seen how these new taxes can have a positive effect on the economic downturn that we now see. Such taxes could help to paralyze the vitality of businesses and thus enhance the challenges that companies face. Such tax returns do not help companies hire new employees, increase their investments, or are in place to improve the quality of their employees. The World Report of the greater part shows that government workers have increased rapidly since 2016, with an increase of more than 7% in total and an increase of 8% in total. Three years. Looking back over the 2011 period, it shows that there was an increase in the number of jobs in the state between 2016 and 2018. Especially in the management board, the officers of the Ministry of Presidency increased by less than 30% between January 2016 and April 2019. This is shown in the reply of Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, to a recent inquiry by Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson for the staff of the Ministry of Premiers. In recent years, the central class has criticized an excessive increase in the number of Kingdom workers, not foreboding the development of the Ministry of Presidency. In this context, it is worth saying that the government's decisions on the harmony of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC are not based on any basis for economic management when it comes to the cost of running reformed organizations. In addition, no economy is expected when it comes to the number of employees in these institutions. I believe that here might be an ambition, and it seems that the old motto of the Independence Party for the blunder has made a prominent drop. An important part of the government's operation on changing economic terms is shown on the pay-off side of the state's budget. Some decisions of the majority of these matters raise serious questions about the priorities of the government. It is enough to mention four examples, though they are more: 1st The government decides to slow down the planned increase in expenses for the case of microorganism from what was previously planned. Except for these actions in sums up a total of 4.5 billion dollars during the period. In this regard it is worth pointing to the letter of the chairman of the Quantum Community to members of Congress. In this letter, the chairman describes concern over cases involving disabled people in a revised financial program. Rather, it is a lack of consultation and information as to who the government is heading for. If the Chairman thinks he's at odds with 3 mg. Section 4. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people who insist that close consultation should be made with disabled people and their interest groups in all decision making. The Chairman is deeply concerned that governments do not raise disability and that poor people will not be removed, that disabled people will continue to enjoy overindulging, which certainly does not allow them to have access to society, and will not lead to empowering disabled persons. The head of the Microcracy Association is concerned that disabled people will become even more poorer than they already are and that governments will leave disabled people on their way to save the state of disability. The letter to the council ends the chairman on this note, with the permission of the president: ▪ It is important to make sure that disabled people have decent manners, so that they have real opportunities to participate in the community, that must be one of the top government projects, that I expect a disabled person to be respected, that no one is left behind. 2. The issue of 23 Hospital Service receives 2 billion less than previously anticipated. These are contributions to the construction of a new hospital. The largest part of the Committee says that the contributions are to be raised in 2025, when a new government has taken over, and so it is not possible for this government to make a decision for the next government. In nature, this postponement of the government is therefore permanent. As far as I can see, the government has decided to postpone the construction of a national hospital, a new hospital. It can also be noted that health care and expert assistance account for about 1.5 billion less than previously expected. As a result of these plans, there is no other way to limit the services of hospitals and clinics to the public from what was previously planned. With Icelanders, there is a strong sense that the country should be a powerful health system that can meet the needs of those who need health care. The material of the elderly is also affected by a decline in relation to what was previously planned, with a reduction of 600 million. K. The mechanism for this reduction has not been adequately elucidated. This is a very important and delicate group, whether you look at the survival of older citizens or a nursing home that must be readily available when people are no longer able to live in their homes. 3. One example is a reduction in high school increases of 1.2 billion. The high school failure is about to become a serious school - school problem. The recent reduction to the three - year decrease in school shorter, against the advice of the most skilled students, involves a weakness at this most important level of school that will not be enjoyed. This will violate official government policies and are not in accordance with the plans of the Ministry of Education. 4. During the next five years, road transport increases of 17% will be reduced. There is a great need for improvements in transport construction around the country. It is vital that such projects be guaranteed to meet the current economic downturn influence. This project must be made up of funds previously planned for the proposed national fund, which has now been postponed for an indefinite period of time. Depending on the amount of money, it may help to reduce the negative impact of the decline and contribute to a new period of build-up and prosperity for the benefit of the population. In such an effort, it is impossible to build up and develop in tourism, which could enable the important profession to produce more income and currency in national preparation. Mr. President. I see we're running out of time. I hereby request to be reassigned to the rosary, and there will be replaced by the opinion of the financial council in particular, the objective of the government, the labour market, and the increased monitoring of improved tax returns. I will also deal with inexpensive measures, i.e. Tolerance measures, due to the import of raw meat as well as the reduction of donations for global development cohesion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u31	Mr. President. I'd like to have a word with what. A senator of him on a lot of interesting reviews. What I wanted to say at first is that I feel that his criticism of financialism is losing a little bit when I read his committee opinion in that he prefers to overlook the fact that financial counsel in its own way says that it is entirely justified to reexamine financial policies. This is what I wanted to come to and emphasize, especially because I thought it was a struggle. A senator does not promote that fundamental point. Well, at least not at all. A senator, as he said at the end of his talk, did not cover everything considered, but I would like to ask him about a donation for travel. I just want to take up another conversation with you. A senator certainly does not have to do with the problem. The aim is to cover the accumulated budget of Air Development, and therefore a 17% decrease is observed between years. In itself, there is no reason to place money in a fund that has not been used by space, which is the main explanation. In addition, more than 25 million each year are offered funding for research in tourism. I'm not going to say it's enough, but it's the first step to further research in tourism. Third, I wanted to mention his words about contributions for development that come to his committee on the financial program. First, there is a decrease due to reduced income intake, and secondly, a transfer due to projects on the Southnes that I would have kept at bay. A senator would want to give special consideration to the fact that he has spoken extensively about the importance of these projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. In response to his final comment on what is said in my opinion about developing cooperation, a senator writes that it is being brought in over 300 million a year from an earmarked development team to the maintenance of NATO workers on the Cheflavour airport. First of all, I'd like to say that I'm glad to put this extra money on the maintenance of workers at Keflavour Airport. I've been talking about it, and I mentioned it here in a speech yesterday that I celebrate the plans of the government. I've talked about it myself because there's an assembly supply coming from NATO and there's a full need for this maintenance, as well as the Southnes will hopefully be hired to do the maintenance work. But what I'm primarily critical of is that it's being taken money from this team, the development team. I don't think it's appropriate to do this, and that can also set a bad example. True, Southnes are needed for this assignment, but we must also think about the rules in this regard, not setting an unfortunate example. I want to thank you for your travel service. A senator for clarifying the details of this surgery. It is then talking about the cost of development in the flight, trying to improve the flight route to the country in international flights. This is just one of the things that we've been talking about in this work, which has been very quick and short of time, that some factors had not been cleared out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u33	Mr. President. All I want to do is make a decision about developing cooperation that there are no goals we are missing. A greater proportion of legal committees specifically mention that there will be a 0.01% variation in long - term financial exchange in the late autumn budget. That is our work, and it is not in any way being carried out in that remarkable work. I thank you, on the other hand. A senator for the answer to that question, for I think we both sense the importance of attacking these projects and accepting it wholeheartedly. In our article on fishing and fishing, we talk very extensively about research. Under that language field, you hear e.g. contributions to Matis. One of the changes in the share is greatly increasing money to marine and food research. The section in our Committees, called fishing and fishing, also discusses agricultural research. I just want to draw them out against what. A senator says we put in 280 million. K. In marine and food research, as well as in 35 million. K. agrienvironmental studies increased. The middle class can no longer spin the bike to see that the reaction to the changes is due to unhealed meat being unfunded. I think I know a lot about this class, a respectable president. I've never seen for a long time as big a project as the ones on the table and agreed on by Congress resolution in action planning and financial support it's been following. Well, maybe. A senator and the Central Party did not agree that these are important steps and rejoice? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u34	Mr. President. Of course, I welcome all donations in this regard, but this is not sufficiently defined by us. It's a good thing to increase the budget for marine research. It is a very important project, especially in view of the changes in the oceans around us, one of our most important resources. Because of changes in sea temperature, etc. this is an extremely important project, but it must be separated and should have been presented in a discussion of these counterweight measures in the way they should be financed. Hv. A senator informs me of things I did not have enough perspective. I would have thought it was already the highest. The minister's recommendation would have been perfectly normal for him to have here a list of how each counterbillary action is abdicating. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator may agree with me that this is necessary. It is absolutely essential that we see in the way we are going to take counter measures when it comes to financing. I have doubts about that. Hv. A senator certainly mentions studies with Matis, but only agricultural research is also mentioned. Are these counter measures? Why, then, is it not just defined as a counterweight operation because of the import of raw meat? This is part of the work we need to do to improve, to keep this clear enough, and to give the members of the committee a good perspective. We know that everything has been done in the field. Legally, such as having 48 days to review the committee's opinion, we have been paralysed, so we just need to work on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech of Þórarinsson's son. He went over the stage in detail. As soon as I adjust the viewpoint of most of the parts of these topics, I'd like to ask you why. A senator for the opinion of a financial body. 13th. a law on public financial matters is legally legalized by financial advisers. This is of utmost importance and has shown that it has not only based on the discussion but also has been a very upbuilding criticism that supports the provision of the policy strategy of the law and has benefited greatly from the support of this tool, both in the use of funds, in production, in taking into account baselines and in the context of economic management. A headline from what? A senator who was sick. A senator reviewed in his speech: The review of the financial body of directors of the government's financial suit. I feel that this is going a long way in relation to the role of the financial Council and how important it is to this tool of ours. I'm asking why. A senator: Can we not agree that the opinion of a financial body is primarily important in the way we can strengthen this tool? That is not to say that we take it out of context and create a judgment like that from the viewpoint. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Surely I agree with him that we should look at these fine financial tips in the overall context. I think I've tried to do that and that I'm not taking things out of context, but in the opinion of a financial body, financial management is not enough. The point may be that we have been learning the law on government finance, and it can be said that a financial body is also learning into the law. This is the first time that these laws are severely tested, i.e. When we are confronted with a down cycle that is unclear how much is going to happen, whether it gets deeper or longer than forecasts tell us. The predictions are misleading. That's what we've got to see. These predictions are the most optimistic and reliable predictions in the Haguen. It is possible to reason that it is not in the spirit of the law to rely on the most optimistic predictions, but it is legal to support these predictions. We've been thinking about Arion banks and also from Iceland banks that are considerably more concerned, if we can say so, about the rest. Certainly, one hopes that we will soon recover, as the Habitat predicts. You'll see. The bottom line is that. A senator, that we are learning these laws, that we should take the opinion of a financial body seriously. There are instruments to reexamine policy. [[The president calls.]] It is important not to set an example in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I am pleased that we agree to begin a financial hearing over the fact that we use it in this way to pass judgment. How important it is in the indications to strengthen this tool for careful financial management and long - term careful economic management! It has benefited us through the years. In the final words of the committee's opinion. A senator is stated, and it is true that the economic downturn is not a valid basis for review, but in the context of the parts at baseline and the economic wind - and now I read directly, by permission of the president, from a committee list more than part on the results of financial planning: The Council believes that there is a basis for review and that changes in current financial policy are in accordance with baseline values and the conditions for the review of financial policies. This may be the context of the parts, and it's important. We take financial tips very seriously and try to follow them. It also points out when we're taking the indications and adding them. Now we're trying to get rid of the straitjacket that is a weakness in financial management with uncertainty and uncertainty. A senator came in okay. That's fine. I don't have a direct question for what? A senator. On the other hand, I thank him for his cooperation in a financial and financial discussion on this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator agree with him that we should look at the financial tip and try to learn from it. I've also spoken of the need for us to rely on some proportions and sizes to indicate that the course needs to be adjusted. I think that's a good idea. There is some analysis to the extent to which the overall problem would have to be so that it would require a review of financial policy. I think it's very important. I mentioned in my talk to the highest. Economic and economic secretary specifically stated that it would be wise to reexamine policy. That's not the reason of the law. As it may appear to be the case now, I think there needs to be some general objective, a proportion of GDP or some size we can use, which will guide us. It's not good for us to see it as it is today. There has to be some boundaries, and we need to get a professional analysis so we have to determine exactly when a review is needed. I think it's quite a factor, Mr. President, that we get scenarios and diagnostics that help the General to make this decision and evaluate when economic events have become a major part of the economy that it calls for a review. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator only introduced a lack of travel policy in our Icelanders, and I think it's time to point that the work has been going on all winter to a tourist policy that will be expected to be ready this year. I've worked hard on it, and I've been working on the policies right now, so I wanted to promote that there's just so much work to do. There is a lot of work at the Department of Employment, whether in the case of tourists, energy or the other. There's a lot of situations being handled. In turn, the funds for travel services are cared for. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in earlier, turning them to the Air Development Fund. There they had raised funds that had not been replaced, so they are being dropped or funded through the financial program. V.E.G. However, the secretary of travel has said that if there is a faster walk on the fund, there will be a higher level of funding, then in the second schedule. They're not laying down the fund, they're just making better use of the funds that are available and present today. A greater proportion of the legal committee contributes in the majority interest to 25 million. K. for increased studies in tourism. Personally, I would like to see the money go as much into the economic aspects of tourism, travel accounts, the Tourism Selige Accounts, as it is called in a foreign language, which would benefit us that had begun working for about a year. It fell down over a period of time, but it is necessary to develop a sense of the economic development associated with tourism that these accounts are made and used in national and national policy policies. That's the first thing, but I wanted to explain, the thing about the Air Development Fund and the importance of our research on travel services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the opposing body describes my joy with that if there are no impairments in the Air Development Fund. It would have been better if the opinion had made it clear. This is an important fund, and it is important to the country because we see a considerable reduction in tourism there. It appears that the region will be less likely to drop from contractures to tourism than the capital area. Therefore, it is important that we look for ways to increase air travel to the foreign country. As we know, the importance of tourism is unequivocal and almost 42% of the population's currency. This article is of great importance to us. Therefore, it is very unwise to speak, such as at least One of the government classes has done, considering moving the merit tax from a lower level, 11% to the top level, 24%. All such speculations are unfortunate for the article. We are the most expensive tourist country in Europe, and as I mentioned in my speech, Mr. President, we are the second or third most expensive tourist country in the world. We need to find ways to change this, that we are not such an expensive tourist country, and then we should be careful with all declarations in this regard. I'm celebrating 25 million. K. Annual contribution as any day. A senator mentioned, and I did so in my speech. [[The president calls.]] It's important what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u41	Mr. President. I think it may be safe to say that in the greater part of the council, there is no discussion of raising the value of tourism, which is about to be provided, bus fare, and such service. The man standing here fought it very hard two years ago, and I haven't been able to get any of it going today, so that's totally in the interest of him. What I've felt was a little bit lacking in the discussion so far, but I haven't really heard everything that's been going on here today, turning to what really happened, why we're reevaluating our financial plan. It's the fall of WOW at the end of March, the misbehaviour at the beginning of the year, and then the third reason in itself is Boing 737 Max Engines Icieldair. It seems to be primarily about sweets to the country and from time to time. It is only brought into the majority of legal hearings. In view of a smaller third point, most of the previous section is quoted as stating that the aircraft has not been handled gently enough. A year ago, certain things were pointed out about this. It's hard to get to the core in short. The greater part is said to be concerned about the increased risk of tourism in financial policy, but it has not done anything to worry about it. How was such things to be written into financial or financial policies and to predict that they would be tested, perhaps by some people who were concerned about the possibility of such an event? What's changed in this less than three years I've been on a budget board is that all discussions about the economic aspects of tourism have changed, as well as the Ministry of finance. It is taking in quite a different way the economics of tourism for Iceland's economy than they were recently. [[The president calls.]] I think this work is going on and will continue in the next few years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator asks, in what way would one of the airlines have had counter measures to ensure that here there might be some of the changes to flying that then occurred, that one of the airlines had stopped working. What we called left the committee at that time were predictions of a variation, of how things would be affected if things were going to work out. It is certainly being corrected by the interpretations, but it was a very critical period, as it were. I'm pointing out what. According to a member of the Central Party, a special discussion was made about the state of the international airlines last fall, where we were deeply concerned about their operation, especially the WOW airline. It took a long time for the secretary of transportation to attend that discussion. There were some signs raised by the airline that, in my opinion, should have made it, for example. A boarding room should have entered that case. The partner's capital in June 2018 was reduced to 4%, which is very low and the company did not return annual accounts, etc. At this point, a man would have believed that there was supposed to be a conference room inside and he would have to make significant changes in his business. It allows for the permit and to monitor the financial status of the airlines. There were signs of concern over the airports as well as what happened. A senator rightly mentioned, went trial. [[The president calls.]] We in the Central Group feel that the reaction has not been sufficiently powerful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u43	A respectable president. I've had the privilege of being one of the agents. The budget board. A great deal of work has been done in harmony with the facts and has been guided by a great film design by the committee's chairman, why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson. It is such a strange situation to face suddenly that we need to reconsider a financial plan that we saw just two months ago or so. Since its introduction to the budget in March, there have been some developments in WOW's bankruptcy and harrowing failures that have led to changes in economic forecasts, and now it is clear that the economy will be recessed this year. I'd like to add that when we see it exactly and get to know the financial policy by the end of March, it was known, first of all, that the hairy failure had become reality, and at that point, it is just being thinking about the serious situation that had come up with WOWair. We talked about it at the time, even when the foundation was actually smiling at them. Anyway, we're moving on. In view of this, the government has now presented changes in current financial policy as well as significant changes in the budget set out in spring. The first few lines of change indicated that contributions to welfare should be cut down for more than 20 billion dollars. the duration of the plan. However, the government has slightly softened and succumbed to the pressures of the government and the Microcracy, we have had a reaction to this, and has reduced this foretold operation to the welfare of the welfare sector, so now it will be more than 10 billion dollars. When I talk about cuts in welfare, I'm not saying, so that there's no doubt in it, and I just want to say that to our smallest brothers and sisters who are in poor standing and have their $22,000. After taxes, paid, that there is not going to be subsidies, cuts, or do anything to reduce that trend, not at all. When talking about subsidies, other terms, such as contractions, may be used. In fact, the plan was very optimistic and expected to improve in most if not all areas of society are affected by the kind we had grown accustomed to. Instead of giving only what was supposed to be expected, inhibitors had to be placed on the basis of the problem. That's why I'm talking about surgery, we can call it shrinking or whatever else, because I know why. The chairman of the budget board is not familiar with this term, so I'd rather not get him into trouble. Anyway, the idea of how to handle things seems to me in many ways that I don't feel right. A greater proportion of legal committees suggest changes in financial programs without convincing support. As an example of such changes, there are ways to reduce the amount of money you make for your high school level by 1,150 million. K. during the period of the programme, by reducing the rate of expenses as well as several corrections in connection with temporary contributions. So I've wondered about each of these cuts or recessions when these contributions to high school are reduced. Will we cancel some school? Is that what it is? What will we do to get together at high school without more clearly realizing what will take place? Here is a suggestion to reduce expenses for other schools and educational and cultural administration by 465 billion. K. during the period that should be clearly explained by correction in connection with temporary donations. Donations of cash with the condition that it can be returned if needed by the donor. which is strongly explained by the reduction in interest rate. That's where I'm really worried, so that's all I'm saying, but more about it later. I'm reading right here from Committee 4 on the bottom of the section. It also says that there is a proposal for a reduction of 3.7 billion. which should be clearly explained by reevaluation of the interest fees of the state fund. I don't know what the huge interest rate of the state fund will be at this time. He's just published a financial plan. We've just got our first financial programme, I just called it when it was just end of March, and this improved financial program speaks of a reduction of 3.7 billion dollars. which should be clearly explained by reevaluation of the interest fees of the state fund. I'll admit I'm no Ph.D., but I have a tongue about a tooth. It's hard to get my hands on this. There must be a requirement for more detailed logic if there is to be a change in financial plans for billions of dollars. It is not enough to indicate that there will be a reduction in budget gain. Who especially should be bitten? You want to close some high school to meet high school standards? Should health - care centers be reduced to meet the standards for living in that category? In this connection it is interesting that the majority of the health committees feel that changes need not be made because there is no significant need to reduce e.g. Government staff. No further comment is made on how the government's institutions should reduce any anticipated expansion, so it is not clear whether this claim holds water. It is interesting, then, that reevaluation of the state's interest fees reveals that it will be 3.7 billion dollars. below the expected date of the end of March. If that is the case, it can hardly be concluded but that the original plan was based on an out - of - date basis for the interest of the state fund. Here I speak of the wonderful promises of improving tax control. Interestingly, the changing financial and financial policies are expected to increase the expenditures caused by taxation. This is considered justified where, according to a greater proportion of the legal committees, it accounts for up to 10 billion dollars. Why don't we take up the state funds for the season of the plan? It sounds too good to be true that only a few hundred million dollars will have to be spent in monitoring the tax system to increase the tax rate by 10 billion. This is hundreds of percent of fruitage. If these statements are true, the reality is that the state has so far proved to be a major failure in controlling tax recovery as the nature of the matter in general has reduced the financial resources of the state. If the measures do not bring back the desired points, it is urgent to conclude that there is yet another failure in the government's attempt to make mistakes in making financial plans. Let's just talk about it, it's known that we have this black economy, where it's thought to be up to a hundred and eighty-five thousand billion dollars. Never in our common budget because it's pure and smart tax fraud. But as the world knows and knows. The president and probably everyone here is my concern and the reason why a group of people developed my burning ideal for stamping out all of Iceland's poverty, the burning ideals that arise when I hear of less than 10% of our children suffering in various degrees, something that I really feel is completely unjust in the prosperity we live in. At the same time, the budget of the budget is greatly subsidized, not just the first one, in spring, but now. Plans to finance, e.g. A crown's execution against a dollar was subsidized in the 2019 budget, and it has now been found that only 35 dollars of that loan is to be removed. The budget is based on reductions in the incidence of disability. 4. smaller items feel utterly unacceptable to discuss the fact that this delicate group of desperate people is a problem in society rather than accept its human resources. It is by nature that it is the responsibility of the government to meet the needs of disability and to do whatever it takes to motivate them and promote more community involvement. I must admit, most respectable president, that I have been stuck since this morning when I listened to the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget, we're going to give you a heads-up. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, at the top. The secretary of finance spoke of an abnormally high level of disability. It cut my heart. What is an abnormal increase in disability? What is an abnormal increase in microorganism under a government that is simply building and producing disability? The system we live in today's world is such a demarcation and a system of micro-terrestrials that no one could ever be found like it when a flaming light was searched all over the earth. This is, in fact, in view of the magnitude of the money that goes to the jury, that we should not step outside the box, there are many points to it, and that it gives the microdoers an adjustment period in going out to work without impairment. What unscrupulous invalid, or professional, or anyone who is an invalid if he is able to work? Nobody, no one. Like what? paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson, my fine platoon partner, and vice president of the people and members of the House, said in the days when he was asked in Castis Show if it wasn't the fact that there was a lot of people out there cheating on the disability system, cheating on this system with 22,000 bucks. per month. The answer was good, undeniably good. He simply said that if anyone was in such a bad state and was in bad shape that he needed to cheat on such a system, he would certainly belong there. I have often pointed out what was done in Sweden in my day. There was an experiment where disability were encouraged to work without a degree of impairment for a certain period of time. We'll give ourselves 24 months, 30 months. The fact is, they're getting money from Social Security anyway. They are kept in poverty. This might be one way to help them get out of it. Most of them could do some part-time work, but unfortunately, the situation here in our society today is that they are not there. It is very difficult for this group of people to get part - time jobs, unfortunately, but we can do better. I believe that what we're looking at here and now in the state culture, often and often, is that it is simply being saved and thrown away. It's being hanging too tight, like a dog on redness, in some system that seems to be very difficult to step out of. They are named after committees and advice by group and by group in an effort to create some system of things beyond the group of poor people, e.g. A work-by-age assessment. The reason not to cancel a cent in return to a dollar is that it should not be done until you have an assessment of performance, if ever, I can't see it. Anyway, I couldn't set it up when I heard the highest. The minister of finance speaks of an abnormally growing disability when it is the fact that it is represented by a government every time the population grows. It's as simple as that. We don't see how we could change things and turn over. But that's possible, I'm convinced of it, and I know it, I've seen how it worked out in Sweden. It went well in Sweden that 32% of all the disability that had the adjustment to work and try to save themselves did not reenter the improvement system. This is one way to reduce the number of microorganisms, as has been so often called out. How should we reduce them? This is one way to do so without having to push them to the point of living, i.e. helping them to get help themselves. They will pay taxes for what little they will earn in their part - time jobs. This will not be a devastating blow for the short period of government funds. Rather, it will bring great long - term benefits. There is no evidence in financial planning how to reduce the number of microorganisms. Governments should ensure sufficient funding for the needs of all citizens, not just some; for example, there is a risk of evaporation when estimated expenditures fail to be met and stricter requirements, e.g. for micro-energy evaluation, to reduce incidence or even to reduce the amount of social security paid. It would be kind of the blackest of all if that situation ever came up, so I'm not going to go there. These are the questions when you are thinking about what can happen if microorganisms continue to grow, they are always talking about it, and what a tremendous burden it will be on a fortune fund because we poor people have been called on the Excel chart. I don't remember reading one piece of paper in one single public institution at all, and not at the high General Assembly, which speaks of us as an unnew human wealth that can be activated. Then it is not intended to increase funding to increase the cost of sensibilities and disability in line with the actual development of the land as required by the law. As Iceland's Generosity Association points out, a financial strategy report on collapse has been made in 54% since 1998 and 29% of 2007. Desperates are one of those groups, social security workers, and particularly invalids, who have not received any correction from collapse, no correction, no backward, nothing as we do at the high General Assembly, and most of the community's professions. No. Social security payments have always been too low and in no way guaranteed the forwardness of those who have to rely on the system. Clearly, governments intend to keep busy and shun the legal rights of a pensioner to correct their progress. Social security spending should be increased yearly according to pay development according to Article 69.g. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, but the government has repeatedly ignored the law at the expense of pensioners. Despite the lack of the current high - quality cuts, it was foretold to cut down on the seminary so that there will be a difference, a class that has been subsidized for decades, if not always. In other words, money contributions for the business of desperate and disabled persons are to be cut off, from what was scheduled in a previous financial program that appeared in March, about 4.5 billion dollars. the duration of the plan. I must say, I am very happy to see this number of all numbers, though, because that number once was 8 billion. She was turned into a change of care. The budget board and the outcome is this. A greater proportion of the budget suggests that a reassessment of the quality and monitoring systems of the state will be undertaken. The task, according to the greater part of the legal committee, is to last at a rate of 1.3 billion. reduction to the topic range. In that case, the results of the project on reassessments should yield a further 1.1 billion dollars reduction. Such plans are based on hope alone, and there is no tangible evidence that such an assessment can produce so much savings. At that time, contributions should be dropped by 2 billion dollars. with the reference to increased maintenance, without details on how to achieve it. A respectable president. I don't get it, but I'm still picking it out here. Hospital service funding should be dropped by 2 billion dollars. The explanation refers to a reduction in the construction of a new hospital, if I understand this correctly, so this is to the contrary. As noted above, a greater proportion of the legal committee explains this reduction in the way that the funds of an earmark building of a new land hospital conforms to 2025 C.E. and falls without a plan. It's something important. When financial contributions are reduced, there is no guarantee that financial plans for the coming years will compensate for this reduction, a contribution to health care. I'm saying it's a little interesting to see that we're here to refer to the year 2025. We only have a plan that goes to 2024, so the ball is being sent somewhere else. No one can assume that he will be sitting in the high Council today. Nobody can count on sitting here in 2025, so I can't figure it out either. I don't think it's a good thing. Health care budgets outside hospitals should be reduced by 1.5 billion. from the previous financial programme in March. They've been trying to fix it. The problem is being added to and added to, as it were, an enormous and collection in the community from collapse, and almost no matter where it appears to be. There is no reason to be ashamed of what is done well and the good will that has often been shown, but whether what is practical is so different. I've often said that optimism and smile save the day, but the financial program since spring and even this one doesn't save the day, because I think it's kind of too optimistic and even too smiling if you just say it right now. What we're talking about when we're talking about health care outside hospitals is what we've been seeing in the news and everywhere. We're talking about how a country in small villages in the country is simply discriminated against in health care because of farms. In fact, people are being taken from the ambulances, such as. in Ólausfjörður. Instead of having an ambulance in Olafurdur, on one side and on the other side of the tunnel, the car was removed from the Ósafuns and moved to the south, so there are now two cars and none in the unsolved. It's only at mercy how fast the driver is driving to Olafurland and picking up the patient, if he's not long dead before the car shows up, and getting him ready for medical care. A respectable president. It's kind of amazing that you talk about it, and I talked about it the other day, too, about what the situation was in the east, up in the Shire, when an individual was injured and had to close a giant wound, when there was really nothing. There was no anaesthesia. No one was able to get any gear, not get a needle, and not a thread. It was just some needle and joke, and the person was filled with brandy. Someone might have liked it in centuries before it could have happened a few hundred years ago, but I wouldn't have believed that we had to admit today that such a situation could arise in the community. This is simply remarkable. Preservations for medicinal products and medical products should also be summed up from the previously proposed budget of 1.5 billion with the reference to increased efficiency. I don't know what this means either. We can do things not always save our money and throw away the crown. We can adjust tremendously. For example, in shopping stores - I know that these are being tried and have been negotiated for even the management of purchases of drugs and such things, they buy them with our friends in Denmark and so forth, but I don't understand how these classes can be taken down, how they can fit into these classes, possibly since they are more and less in the paralysis of the past. There are a lot of work available, and unfortunately, they cost money. Of course, it's always about priorities, and of course we can't just dance for a few hundred billion, bake them and drop them here. What a joy it would be if such a course were possible, but of course it cannot be done! Of course, you have to try to be realistic, but it doesn't change the fact that I've been talking about it since I arrived at the High Council that I don't think priorities are directly addressed to those who really need money. The treatment should be delayed by one year in order to increase the number of nurses. Imagine, there's a situation like this, that even if there was a new room built, such as for example. In its 30 - year - old Seltananes, the positions of nursing have not yet been placed in the magnificent new room. There's only 20 inmates in there. There are ten spaces that cannot be used because it was not for staff. And why? We received a financial committee of good guests, who told us that they feel that the practicality of the nursing home and the putting of their arms around it would be in many ways lacking. It wouldn't be efficient enough and it would be building too small a unit instead of building the existing ones, where workers are available. We know that there is a person in the medical system. There's no new science. The status of aging services is currently unsurpassed, that is not more complicated, and because of the lack of nurses, human resources, and disorganization, many people are now waiting for service. People are being saved at the Land Hospital because of their failure to get them into a nursing room with a view to serving. Can you imagine? There are dozens of individuals at the Land Hospital of ◯ College Hospital. This so-called efflux problem is the most expensive resource in the world. A day well costs a hundred thousand dollars. What's with the public money? We also learned that one day at a National Hospital ◆ a university hospital spent as much as 25 visits by a nurse to an elderly person in an independent home. At the same time, however, increased cost of nursing is not anticipated. Then there has not been a framework deal on the management of nursing homes, so there is a lot of uncertainty about the prowess of such institutions. Organizational organisations in welfare services have expressed concern over the lack of the government's interest in the construction of a frame deal, as well as the low estimated budget for services and services due to nursing and rehabilitation should be increased. In this regard, they point out that under the budgets of 2018 and 2018 and the proposed financial programme, contributions to hospital services should be increased by 13.1% and extramarital medical services should be increased by 25.8% but only by 9.1%. Here I'm pointing out that although 9.1% - they would have liked to see 25.8%, see a higher number there. However, it is still being injected. We can't do everything, but we were all there to give. Here's what we're supposed to put our money first. We're supposed to give up so much that there's no shortage, there's no shortage, there's no humanity, there's room for everybody, and everyone's supposed to get the service they have right to have, according to the 76th paragraph. The constitution. But it may not be unknown that this article is readily used in the case of the high Generals. Few judgments have been made that demonstrate this. There have been reviews that suggest that the current budget of nursing is not enough to meet the increased demands of government management, including the public. of increased personal protection. In addition, in recent years the cost of nursing has increased greatly because people who enter a nursing home are becoming weaker and weaker. Therefore, it should be assumed that this too will increase during financial planning. Budget schemes will not ensure continued control of the welfare system unless the government's institutions are held in hand. Such management will normally take place on those who are in need of the ministry if there is a problem. Budget requirements may include: to help reduce the number of staff who perform welfare services on behalf of the state. Such a decrease would be indelible, since there is already a human health system. The priority order of the budget is ◯ The people first. In view of the worsening of the wealth of the state, governments must be a special protection for those who are in the community. Health contributions should only be impaired in the most dire of circumstances. There is no need now and undefeated in reducing the support of the changing financial agenda. Seek all ways to increase the income of the state's budget before such measures occur. It's in recession times that the government's focus is most evident. Thus, it shows how governments want to set priorities for money and for whose benefit. For example, the government in hand is strengthening the position of the state's funds by allowing additional streams of access to the nation's common marine resource instead of lowering the cost of fishing by 4.3 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. Also, rather than postpone the reduction of the so - called bank tax by one year, as shown in the schedule, there is good reason to postpone this reduction throughout the period and at the same time ensures high levels of 38 billion dollars. ... moneyinundantfinance. Can't the banks afford to pay this tax? Is it better to let it bite on the well - and - poor people? People's party says no. Instead of setting a tax deposit so that the least - important tax pay will put the government to lay green taxes on the price of household waste, which is largely expedient. The government's pay is extended on at least One hundred and ten thousand dollars. during the period. This is very enjoyable, since in 2010◯2016 the average supply of land relics in the state fund was about 1.5 billion dollars. But 2017 publicly appeared to the director of the Country Activation, I read this article in the business magazine, and I announced that in the year 2020,226, we would expect up to 110 billion dollars. interest payments from land induction. The government does not intend to make use of these money to deal with the problems of the government. Rather, it is its objective that the money will go to a national fund that becomes an independent investment fund and housed abroad. We have quite some time to start this national treasure a little bit later, don't we? Is it life that we need to set limits for the Agency's time right now when we are in this downturn? Can we just put our arms around it and keep it, just put it aside, and use what we truly have? Is this not our common property? We in The Gang of the People have some suggestions for changing. We can't proclaim impairment as government funds gather into the saddle. Remuneration is to be used to prevent compromises in the welfare sector so that those mentioned between the hands should not be taken into account. As a result, 4th smaller items suggest the following changes in specific fields of law, an increase in donations to disability and language products by 7 billion dollars in disabled persons. Annually throughout the period, costs for hospital service will be increased by 1 billion each year. I'm gonna go back to my disability contributions. We're talking about the fact that during this period, we're going to have to take a cent out of the way. We need to drag this group into life, make them active in the community, help them to help themselves, drag them out of the poverty trap, because if we reach the goal of getting them out of the poverty trap for a time, they never want to go back. It is our benefit, the community of all, to get the human beings of disability. With this funding, we also meet those who are unable to work at home alone, who are free of all rights, except the striped pay from social security. After taxes, that's just $22,000. I ask, "Who is counting on more than 22,000 dollars to survive? " a month? I wonder if it would be one of them. I'm standing here, naturally, with the highest power. President and w. The chairman of the Gaming Committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, so I don't know if any senators will nod all around and say, "Yes, I trust to survive a total of 22,000 dollars. a month, even if I'm paying rent of $250,000 or $150,000. or something just because I live in water and air, I don't need electricity, and I don't need a phone, and I don't need a car, and I never need fuel. I don't need anything. 212,000 is fine for me. But that's not nice for anyone. 212,000 isn't great for anyone, it's too small for everyone. It's as simple as that. It is up to us here and our duty to prevent our people from living in very poor health. The people also want an additional 1 billion dollars in hospital service. every year. Why? I've talked about it before. It's a flow problem, it's a people's problem, there's so many big jobs that I wish I could have had those numbers much higher. But if you're making some changes and you're going to call for priorities, you're gonna have to take them somewhere else. They don't fall out of the air, as I once indicated. Health care donations outside the hospital will be increased by 1 billion. every year. Of course, the people's party wants ambulances and first aid all over the place, that the people don't have to wait like east on the Shire for up to an hour before anyone came from Egls. Imagine, we live in Iceland, and we know what weather and wind are coming in the winter, how it's impossible. I'm from Olafurd. In some cases, pruritus and uterus were unable to be treated for up to ten days. True, that is no longer a time, but it will still be impossible. It is often a flood, an avalanche, and all sorts of things, and it is impossible. What do we do then when no one is there in the small village, the small shop, the small town on the land, and something else comes up, someone gets sick, someone injured, or a woman is in child distress? Nothing. Nothing's going to happen. There will be an increase of 2 billion dollars in nursing and rehabilitation services. every year. Why? We know what. Councilmen, the growing paediatric waiting list by diagnosis? To think a child should have to wait up to two years after getting an analysis of whether it's read-only, with ADHD, with a dyexia, where it's statined. A child who is coming to school does not understand why he cannot learn and read like all the others around him. It's our responsibility, it's no more complicated than that. We'd like to make extra contributions to the subjects of the elderly. We also want to live up to what was put into the lifetime document agreement, and we were not only able to see it in spring during the menial struggle. We want to set 2.5 billion bucks. Every year on the premises. They're talking about a shrinking of 13% between what was announced in a financial programme this spring and again today, but I don't think it's as black and white as I thought it was. This does not change the fact that better could be done. We do not want our children to move 20 times before they become 12 or ten times. The basis for all well - being and social security is the home, the home, the school, and the friends. Then we are surprised that our young people are confused, out of school, out of school, get out of the track, become addicts - because we refuse to admit that too many of them are anxious, they feel bad, they have trouble at school and have not even found themselves, they never really find themselves. This is our responsibility, a respectable president. The changes I'm preaching here would increase the financial expenses of the state's budget of about 15 billion dollars. every year, on average, during the season. They could be fully funded by, as I mentioned earlier, to postpone the decrease in bank tax during the season, by keeping the fishing fee, to reimburse it before coming to lower it, and by making use of land activation's funds. We don't have to do more, just this is much more than what is being prayed for to strengthen and strengthen these classes. Further implementation of the proposal 4th smaller parts of financial change can be seen in a special Senate document accompanying this committee. It is the saddest of all to see nowhere anywhere that the lowest progress should be raised in all this strategy as far as it reaches, to the full of five years. Nowhere is it expected that the progress of the unfortunate will go up. It is made up of legal requirements that take place every January and again, according to the above words, take place in the country's salary development, as stated at 69 C.E. This correction has only been based on a consumer calculus number. The difference is an enormous, respectable president. Thank you. I may be talking a little bit about financialism later, but this is good for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, co-star 4th, smaller section. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the Committee to Re-Elect. There has been a period since the introduction of financial programs in March, then a review of policy some time later with all the uncertainty that has developed in the economy at the same time so that projects have not yet been established. The legislature committee has been a bit tricky and intense at this time, with, of course, a lot of reviews, visitors, etc. Thank you. At the same time, a candidate for a reasonable approach in his speech. It was widely covered, as is normal, with financial and financial agendas. Like what? I am interested in improving the interests of those who have least, and I need for some reason to accept compensation that no one is too happy about. I don't remember hearing anyone who's ever heard me. I've not been here very long, but at some point, talking about anything but improving these terms. This is always a delicate discussion because when we're working on budgetwork and financial programmes, we talk about numbers and percentages, and this will be a delicate discussion. But we have to, because we have to look at these systems, analyze them, and then look at how we can help individuals with alimony, since they are not a single group. [[The president calls.]] How can we make more use of our money? I just want to reiterate that there's an increase in the stage. I'll find it better in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. The chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór, for the counter-sponsor, so I'm not talking about cooperation. It's been a great pleasure. As I have said, there's a delicate group and numbers on paper, and things are going to get a little tricky. You see, I would've liked for us to be something other than a disability load on an excel document because by not necessarily wondering how to raise this thing and the other one would really be able to prevent an explosion, even reduce the number of people on the system by giving them the freedom to help themselves. Instead of having a very high cost for the entire group, we can raise the basic progress that would cost a great deal and be very adverse in the Excel document, we can raise the group that does not trust themselves to go out to work and are forced to be there because of physical and mental illness and rather help the others not to interfere with the benefits and drag them into life. I think we could certainly reap a beautiful, euphemic rose two years later. I often say that sometimes we could think a little longer, but just ahead of our toes and even out all the financial plans, and then I believe that we would certainly reap. This is a critical change in the course and the system that has been downtroddened so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with what. A senator, this is a cooperation project to improve the costs, especially for those who are unable to improve their interests by developing greater workforce activity. I'm gonna let me watch the numbers, the subject field 27 and 28. The project is that we can use the money that goes on better to improve the cost. If I compare these topics together, I see that 2016 goes over 54 billion into the 27 topic area and the same money into the 28 topic areas on the subject of the elderly. There's gonna be an incision. Then, when we change a system for the elderly, it separates. There's a lot of money going on. By the end of a plan, the rate will vary from 12 billion to a very large amount of money. Every year it's like this. The increase in percentages in the 28th language range is less than 131%, 64% to disability. We'll see that there's an incision that tells me we can do better. We can change these systems. It's gonna cost, and that's why we're supposed to work on making more money, but we're also going to take the discussion and not mix it when we're talking about money and then the individuals in the system we really want to work for. [[The president calls.]] We want to make up for the benefit of this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I certainly understand what's wrong. A senator is appropriate. Of course, things change. Of the elderly, one hundred and twenty - one dollars was taken up against a dollar impairment, which went into effect on January 1, 2017. For example, in the United States alone with such a degree of impairment, no doubt it will test some higher court somewhere. We're not going to settle it right now. But we have to act, and I like to hear what's happened. A senator says that even if it costs, we have to do something, we have to change and take the conversation. Still, we cannot allow this to be spoken of in detail when talking about financial programs. We have the state order and see how to prioritize money in the coming years. It's cut me off to see how little is done for these groups. There's no increase in one dollar that's clean and complete. I know and believe we can do better. It is not enough for us to talk about it and for each of us to agree that there is no way anyone can live through it and so forth. It's in our power to change that. That's how I see it, and it's no different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u48	Mr. President. We are now discussing key financial policies and the government's financial agenda. These are two separate cases, as we know them, but we'll discuss them, including them. On the basis of a closed matter, now together today. At the beginning, however, I don't like it. It's been shown, including. dose should be administered at the highest level. Prime Minister, the financial agenda, and especially the financial policy of each government, is a fundamental factor. I'm particularly sorry that we don't get more time than we have, and I want to criticize strongly the language that the Central Party has done in the energy package case, which is completely declared, and I believe the Congress should be allowed to take the case as soon as possible. What has been the result? As a result, we have limited time to discuss one of the basic issues of each government. In fact, the fundamental issues always come up over and over because they need to reevaluate unrealistic standards, etc. I'll get to that later. I'm warning you, and I'm going to point that out even. The chairman of the budget board that he will take the lead in the future, I hope we won't be reviewing financial policy all the time, but we can expect it to be prepared now that this will not be done in the final meters. There are so many important issues related to financial policy as well as the plan that has to do with our standard of living. It has to do with community development. They are related to how they include they spoke of the elderly and desperate people here, how we want to live with them, how we want to maintain Kingdom spending as well, and so they give up where they live. We don't have time to do exactly this because this has been a complete confusion on my part of the Central Party, and worse, the natural absolute surrender of the government party to the Central Party. The range of the event has become more than any material in the council, so it is said at the outset. We just have this little frame, this little window here today, we have an understanding that there are two speakers from each class, and it varies how long you'll discuss. Then I wonder - and I'd like to point out that the legal committee's special chairman, anyway. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, has been here as he is normally, kind of an exemplary member of the greater part of the way he does his job, answers questions, and gives tips, sometimes harsh but objective matters - whether in the end it is never intended to listen to the tips or to the topic of criticism in the lesser part. We simply see how the matter was handled by a budget committee, and of course the budget and the Senate department can also thank the media for the debate, this many days' debate, because it is clear that the data for the financial program were not ready. They were just not ready, so there was one part because the independent party, especially, was not hurrying to negotiate with the Central Party and left prime minister in that soup with strange emphasis and results, at least for a time. [[Up front.]] But there's another story, and I want to point it into the future that we don't have that way. Then there is the danger of being a play to some extent. I believe we, e.g. in our restoration, we have brought in some very dramatic criticism of financialism, made up of our suggestions, held up a meeting, and reported in detail how we want to bridge the gap, first of all, how we want to prevent the present - day downs that have actually begun to be remembered and that affect our country's homes - and then how we make it all up. The plan we are discussing here has changed several times since the previous year. As economic presidents have changed considerably with the development of revised financial policy. The first round. In connection with this fundamental issue of the government was the highest. Ministers in particular warned of the possible loss of income and the cost of economic trauma, such as a fishing crisis in the fishing industry. That was a warning. Due to the recession of the tourism services, which were visible to all open eyes, prices to export markets, or economic events in major business countries. It's a good thing that in the meantime, people seem to be on the level of reality, including... to Bfenit, but on its own, the question of whether Boris Johnson will fulfill his wet dream and Nigels Farages about taking a hard Bgret and leaving the British out of contracts will no less affect Icelandic interests. It's just that way. The development of gangs, prices, and agreements - it was clear that it would also cause uncertainty about the survival of a government fund, but, of course, these warnings were all well considered, not only on our behalf, but on our efforts and on other political parties, but on a number of professional experts, or at the labour market, and more. Therefore, just three months later, the government has been forced to reevaluate the assumptions it had made in its time, and to change financial policy is a fact. We all know the unrealistic spending promises that are classed by those that now make the government were not afraid to vote for the last election, all for everyone. The real estate seemed inexhaustible, but what you see is that the sails need to be pulled together, at least for a while, but governments find it hard to know that this is a sign of a rather harsh economic government, far away from it, and we can see the economic situation today. We see it only on the grounds of these issues, but maybe it's because the government is forced in the way, if it should face this reality, taking a political stand on lawsuits and promises that they may eventually not agree on, health issues. Transport, which way, how, and how much. This could result in a failure in this second strong relationship between the members of the board, where everything seems to be so much fun, and it's nice that people enjoy the work. When you think about this, it seems that all time, the highest priority of the government was to keep the government together. It is the alpha and the Omega of its entire approach, regardless of which frame is brought down. Although this is not directly related to financial policy and does not have to do with financial policy or financial plans, we saw just how everything was done when here a vote on human names, everything was done to prevent an individual's freedom, in effect, more and less the entire Independence Party, the forward and left green, evicted this off the board with the loyal support of the Central Party. That's why it's not just boring and unpleasant, but it's a very dangerous thing for all developments here at the council. That's how it turns out, and that's why I say it's such an alpha and an Omega of all the political classes, simply keeping the government together. Then all princely acts are given by or things simply not answered, in my opinion. A respectable president. This is the first government to create financial, financial and financial policies, everything was based on the same thing, completely throughout the terms of the term. Since then, babb has been entered into the boat, as we can see, the assumptions of the government and should be in order to fulfill these magnificent promises that sound at tens of billions of political parties, such as the Independence Party, who have believed to be responsible political power in finance through the years, all of a sudden, the party was in the superiority of the campaign manager and put 100 billion in their campaigns and promises, green with something around 80 and even less, perhaps the least moderate of the governments that are present. Although our policy is well over a year old, the financial program itself is only three months old, of course, it is both natural and likely to reevaluate mistakes and defects as it is now in financial policy, which is, in my opinion, not necessarily a good example for the future to reevaluate, especially when the practicalist is at one time, and now it remains, in my opinion, ignored, and it is quite consistent. The government will continue to do what she did with her previous policies and plans, not to be realistic enough in her views, but to maintain a firmness in the economics of the Economics, but there are just so many people like last point out that this is not practical. That's what we've been overreaching, that we've got to work on it as close as possible to reality. In fact, the plan was smiling before the ink dried out on it, thereby making employers of income, and also reciprocators. We have often warned in this council hall that a sound and image in this matter has not gone together with the government. We've called for more responsibility and because we're not building clouds here and wishful thinking, we're more based on facts and reality. All right, then, what are the facts of this financial plan? It's been handled all right today. The budget will be 13 billion less in 2020,2024 than the previous plan expected. Environmental contribution is reduced compared to the previous level. High schools will be reduced to previous programs, health care programs, nursing homes, and older people's affairs. The fund is still a fine idea, but it has not yet been realized, for it was actually emptied long before it came into existence. Investment of innovation or the construction of a nursing facility has been delayed, and we see that it is a painful reduction in innovation compared with earlier designs, for innovations, education, and research. It's just a very cold fact. We can also discuss further reductions in transport plans, so it is reasonable to ask, " Do you remember when you were marching up here with the full amount of transportation plan? ' Is that plan simply out the window? We're getting little evidence of what the plan is. The answers to the immediate future are very vague in this regard. This is what we have in the year we are particularly warned about, and despite the fact that it's easy to be in politics and make promises to our sleeves, it's simply expensive. This excessive optimism of the government in making the last financial plan is now a little bit in the ass, or the tail, or what we can say here. The situation was somewhat predictable, and then you would have thought that men had learned from what men said to a handful of losers, that the government had now only wanted to be the realistic side of life and listen to the thought - provoking voices of the experts I come in after, such as. Business council, Industrial Association, Arion's analysis department, and others. The government is, and it can be said to her to praise her, to try to march into this path. It is natural to draw out what is well done. She is trying to walk inside to meet and to see some of the starting downs. However, she still leaves the patch on the wound. It's my experience that it is better to rip off the patch than to stand in a little piece of cake like you're doing here. The government is still waiting and seeing, hoping that this will be all right as we see its proposals that even measures that exaggerate the swing. It's like men learn nothing about the story, and that's why I'd like to come below to our suggestions on finance policy and plan. Therefore, in this context, I would also like to ask, " How is this affecting the historic biographies of the government? ' ASI has already issued a announcement as they contended against the budget's financial security for 2020-2024 could not justify the removal of government officials from promises made at collective agreements and they accused the government of using micromotives to smooth out the fluctuations in the state of business. This is ASI. They have also criticized the budgetary committee for lack of cooperation with stakeholders because of the decrease in budget for sensitive lawsuits, such as microenergy pensions, hospital services, drugs, and development cooperation. So it took the government two months to back off and leave their new promises to the labour market and their promises on tax and welfare. It is reasonable to ask whether these are the real biographies that the government was ever going to land. She was always going to land these contracts, and even eventually they're gonna get worse or softer and weaker, the commitments that come out of the government's hat. Organizational organisations have also criticized the financial programme, pointing out that the number of nurses is expected to increase by 26.4% over the period, but the amount is increased by more than 7%. Of course, this does not match. Once again, there's a sound, and it's not a picture together. This must call for a further inspection, and it is no longer possible for us, although we are certainly taking an excellent step in an advanced nursing home on the bottom, that is now being built up and brought up by Sólven, we do not face the challenge when it comes to the need for a growing nurse. It is simply a continuation of future activities. The executive director of the Industrial Association and the Arion Analysis Department warns too much optimism about the design of the policy now and again. It's not just fun and games, but others are saying this, which so far has been any significant part of it. Business advice says very clearly and understands, as we do, the need for a review. I'm not necessarily critical of the need to revise. All they need to do is face up to the huge flaw the government has brought through the last financial policy, and it's being fixed. I agree with a business council, there may not be anything unusual about it. But business matters are important to me, and it is found, for example, in my opinion. There's no point in getting financialism back a year and a half. The decrease in bank and income tax and infrastructure has not been put in place. The government decides to postpone the reduction of taxes, including The bank tax, it's very popular, and I understand that it seems like a good idea to just say, "We're not gonna turn down the bank tax. " The bank tax has a twofold effect, one of which can have and affect the rising cost of banks, which naturally yields directly to bank clients, and the same as the other that we think is important, that it does not do enough... As far as banks are concerned, we have emphasized in our financing that one third of Iceland's bank is being sold. However, it is not an acceptable option while we have an excessive bank tax, much higher than the entire North countries. I'm generally very fond of looking into what the North countries have been doing. We just don't do enough of it, so if we're any interest in it - and there I feel like it's still there. Independents, the right men, thank the left men, the persuaded minds - are sending out the message that we are not going to go to the banks for sale. I don't think so, especially now because there are projects ahead of us and must go on to reduce the impact of the decline on families, individuals, and especially companies, especially small and medium-sized companies around the country. We've submitted, as I say, our proposals to remedy the change to the highest. Secretary of finance has ruled the council. We presented each week, showed the cards and suggested suggestions that would result in granting the state funds and the nation space to cope with some of the economic events that have begun and we see that economists are. to point out that in this fall, the downtrodden will come with some force. There are certain areas that you are deeply concerned about, such as. Southnes, with some temporary jobs for the summer, the impact of WOW's fall and hardship in the tourism service will have, especially in the South. We feel that it is important to give the state funds and the nation space to cope with the economic events that we see, to provide oxygen to the economy while we are going through another economic swing. As long as we're in the Icelandic crown, we'll go through the fluctuations. The same is true of other nations. But the danger for us is that the economy will grow over and over again, making the dive deeper, just as the vomit becomes larger and faster. That's why we even came. with our suggestions on this. We feel that taxes will not be raised at all, but we must ask ourselves, " Can I speed up plans for further reductions in my insurance policy? ' In particular, the reduction in the insurance bill will be the best place for an SME who needs to consider each dollar just to hire one employee. We could thus contribute both to the innovation and the start sector that we so desperately need for a shorter and longer time, i.e. to use the economy to consider the future, so we focus on this and we focus on investing in infrastructure projects according to the situation in the economy. The government needs to increase investments in order to reduce the impact of the contractions on these factors, on homes and businesses in the country. Our suggestions turn to an increase of 60 billion dollars in investments. in the next three years. How? How? That's what we've always stressed, before the 2016 elections, for 2017 and also for the city 2018, about how we're going to finance this. We do not want to go that same way, to promise in a very irresponsible way, basically lying to voters, 80, 90, or 100 billion each time, but then we cannot keep it. That's the reality today, so we say that we would like these projects to be financed in part by selling the third part of the state to form an Iceland Bank. We want the government to continue to own the Bank of Land. I'm not going to get into that just everybody's going to sell all the banks. We're talking about at this point selling a third part of the state in Iceland. We feel that the government has underestimated the decrease in the number of tourists, has not been considered to be sufficient in terms of the slower growth in private consumption and housing investments, and has also underestimated the changes in the Crown's gangs. Such insecurity may lead to a deeper economic decline, as I have talked about, and expectations will somehow be lost because the government has not given room to respond. The unsuspecting range is too small. The financial adviser points out that there will be an increase in uncertainty, and we suggest that there will be an increase to 1.5%, we will see that there will be more unemployment than there is to be, or not to the required, but to which we might face. The state of the nation's farm is getting worse and lower - paying power for its households. This can be avoided if we take this down cycle wisely. Since the government's investments have been well below the average of all the streets since collapse, it is therefore important to use this economy now to stimulate the economy. We believe that investments in the road system have not been able to cope with the tremendous growth that has been followed. Tourist current last year. Road traffic has increased far beyond the cost of road construction, so we feel that it is very important to speed up road activities that are related to road construction. The city line, two-waySand Southlandways, and as a result, an additional emphasis must be placed on global health and climate investments, which are naturally one of the most urgent tasks of the day. On these grounds, we are also suggesting that the uncertainty range is from 0.4% to 1.5%, but more so, that we are taking into account more than the government does, that the rural communities themselves also need space. We cannot leave all the projects that are also faced by our societies without extending them some increased lifeline. These are the suggestions we have made, and I second that I see that financial advice is nothing like a trail. The future does not have to be black, the way for a better future and a better time for the public in the country is going through practical plans for financial policy and government plan. It must be realistic, and that is what experts and reporters have repeatedly pointed out. Business agencies, industrial organizations, and others say that economicism is based on the most optimistic predictions. They specifically warn that they insist that public financial legislation is particularly needed to be revised. I agree, it's like I'm remembering that a business agency has said in its review that it's like the rules are being removed from one's goals. In fact, we can see the place through the government's contributions and suggestions in that regard. We also need to realize that the future is bright, that it may be somewhat darker ahead, but in the long run, it is bright, it will always shine over again, and the rain will cease, and the sun will come; it will have been more recently over the land. We would also like to point out that it is absolutely unnecessary on the part of the government to let the people of the country stand out in the cold during a decomposition, with no hat or mittens. Therefore, it is important that our proposal for restoration succeeds at the General. We also give high priority to the fact that at the same time there will be a careful review of the progress of last year's budget gain. This is an enormously important factor. It has been observed for far too long that no measurable goals have been established as to the result of the expansion. This needs to be improved and improved, and all means must be sought into a cooling economy for increased efficiency, economy, and improved innovations so that there is no need to compromise basic services and other relevant community support. It hangs together, too. If we increase government expenses, we need to know that the money will return to where it should go. We see in our natural eyes a bitter dislocation, e.g. The government, about how we solve the waiting lists in replacement operations and other measures because the government does not want to face the problem, since it must not be used in the variety of services provided by public members as private partners to solve the problems and suffering of people who have been lost and even for years in waiting lists. A respectable president. We have presented ourselves with suggestions for making Iceland's livelihood better, and we have done so since the formation of the party. We will continue this presentation and continue to contribute to solutions that we consider reasonable at any given time, although I feel that the government is not too often listening. We promise, as I've said before, that we don't take billions of stores just before elections and then there's no deposit. At least we hope that the people of the land will eventually hear and realize that it is not a responsible political force that promises all beauty and then can't keep it, but it is a responsible political force that says things as they are, treating voters honestly. This is exactly what works best for homes and businesses; no shelters; it is a promise that can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u49	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and chairman of the Extremation, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, for an excellent speech. There's so much in a talk. A senator who's got a good reason to go over. I felt that the main theme was even tone of the government's response to the economic wind, this sudden downturn. Hv. A senator spoke of oxygen, and I can also see it on the changes made from a woodstorm to the uncertainty bed to 1.5. We're in the middle of it. The legislatures offer to remove from 0.4 to 0.8. You're absolutely right. A senator came in, needs to be examined. Section 8. In fact, the law on government finance is quite clear that this is a public forecast. To date it has been the economic concern of the Haust, but more predictions are to be considered, and that is what the committee did. Based on a range of suggestions. A senator crossed the force. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Víglundsson, an officer on the committee, followed the discussion that he always does. He's very perceptive, and he's come up with some good tips. Part of this is going to 14.5, and then we're looking at pessimism. I say, "Have a why." A senator does not worry that it will rust them out, e.g. This important interaction with money policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór for approach and question. It is proper to note that we are taking greater account of our rural society, perhaps with experience. We see that it is not and has not been sufficiently taken into account in these compounds. In this area, rural society is becoming much larger players with increasing responsibilities. I predict that in the future they will not reduce their number, but they will increase their numbers. I predict the case of the elderly, and it may well be that one day after another, high school will be moved to rural society, and I see that some members of the council are understandably discussing it. It's all a huge project, but rural society is now facing other projects, and it's called for a specific space and help. We want to give it, and it's shocking that there's a lot more room for our proposal than for the government. Governments and rural groups are divided, and larger parts provide room for the state. You're absolutely right. A senator says, "The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson has been in the matter and has considered it very carefully. We are convinced that by making our approach, we are not threatening the stability we need to get through a more conservative financial policy and that there will be some threat that we are facing a higher level of growth. I'm not worried about that if I'm gonna say it right now. But I'm concerned about other things, and there may be a difference between our proposals and the government. There are certain harmony, however, but we simply listen to more voices than only the voice of the Habitat. I'm not hiding it. Considering how the original policy was conducted, we take into account how that experience with those criteria went and we try to say things as we feel they are facing them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. These are just the speculations of the moment. The legal committee went through. That's what's happening with the uncertainty range and community interaction. The discussion may not have done enough, but it was dropped from the original scheduled cryo-conservation, which is very positive. At least a financial committee took advantage of at least for the discussion of these topics, and for the sake of society, it was an excellent conversation. In a revised financial policy, it is assumed that they will create more leeway for their communities, that they can swing down. There was some debate that uncertainty gaps should be used directly to the rural communities, but now it is built into the framework of the communication between the rural community. There is increased consultation, so the uncertainty gap is going to be able to get through that communication. I repeat, the restoration has been quite consistent in talking about the cost growth. We in the majority of the committees have a very good 2011 overview, with the help of the secretary of the Committee, and there you can see as you look over the stage that there is a tremendous amount of cost. We must also look at where we are coming from, from a financial breakdown where transportation and other factors were difficult to maintain, and in an effort to protect the welfare systems, etc. There's a pressure on tax growth. This is not just political pressure. One of the suggestions is to sell an Iceland bank, and it has certainly been discussed and granted. Today, we are investing by sharing technology, such as banks, and it may not be possible that we have a stock market at this point. That depends on how we sell it to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u52	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. From 2011 onward, we need to examine the evolution process. We also draw forward that investments from that time are under historical limits. Since 2011, road transport has also become much bigger than forecasts ever predicted. The road system's not gonna make it. For one thing, we put our suggestions into action, and they are made of money. We're not promising something that's not too much money. This is of utmost importance to us. Also important to us is the careful consideration of how we have made our expenses and how they have been distributed. So I finished answering the question then, about the uncertainty problem, I'd like to say that inside that, of course, it's my investments. We've got the money we need with the cash on the banks. I'm stressing that we can discuss whether and how to sell Iceland banks or not, but as the government's proposals are now, we are not being inclined to invest in Icelandic banks. We do not do this with a much higher bank tax than is known anywhere else. I think the government is saying that she's not going to sell the banks, because we know that the prime minister and her party are pretty opposed. However, we need to take these initiatives, not just because there is an urgent need to do so for the interior but also to reduce the impact of the movement that will be made to someone in Icelandic homes and businesses. That's why we're going some other way, but I'm stressing that we're not making a promise. We're realistic. We simply want to tear the patch off immediately so that we can tell our people in the country what things are really like and how we are going to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u53	Mr. President. We'll talk about financial policy and the government's five-year financial plan. A representative of the United States Group on a budget committee has done well with our proposals to some relief officials, so I'm going to focus on the bigger picture. While there have been significant changes in the economic outlooks of the country, far from giving the reason why we are here, changing financial and financial policies as a completely unexpected position. These changes are simply something that we in our little and far too monotonous economy, with a desperate swinging coin knowingly well. The government originally set up a financial policy that would last for four years but for 14 months. The original policy was also severely criticized, not only by government opposers but also by financial councils, by various interest groups, and if the government had allowed so little to listen for a moment, we would not now be changing our policy. Nor is the state's financial situation unexpected, and it is a sign of good farming to gather in the shard when it is successful to walk to safety when the valley gets tough. The last few years have simply not been the case with governments. On the contrary, they have yielded their income in a swing, at the top of an economy, and at the same time, they have allowed the infrastructure to decay. Our road system has at least one system. There's too much left over. In the present situation, the danger is created, and experience shows that when it comes to gathering together and cutting down, it will be among the most important groups. There is, however, more than one way to demonstrate this, not just cutting down; there is also a way to increase income. A number of groups that were not allowed to enjoy unbiased futures in recent years to the same extent that we here are here at least need now to submit to intersecting in order to be maintained. Of course, it should be the primary objective of the government to protect these groups, and it would have been possible to set priorities differently, but it would also have been possible for rich people and big companies to make more use of limited resources. We are, for example. To charge a fiscal tax much lower than any other country in the North countries, and although we raised it by two percentages, we would still be under what's elsewhere in the North. I think it's a disgrace to 103/411. The richest country in the world cannot offer everyone the security and circumstances that enable people to live with dignity and save money in other parts of the system as we know so well. I don't think that there is a lack of ambition and forethought, and I don't think the government is investing in the future and knowledge, innovation and education of the nation. This illustrates the changes made by a legal committee. Mr. President. 14 months ago, I said: It is unwise to give along this income at the top of the economy while attacking permanently and certainly the necessary expansion. This is no way to make the best of the years. They're stepping the fuel supply to the top of the lift without making money for expenses. As a result, if the most optimistic predictions fail to go along, the cutting knife will take off. What will happen to him first? Yes, experience teaches us that it will be in our best interests. In fact, this includes both economic failure and election fraud, as the worldwide press of the infrastructure press is far from being the same thing that was promised. The members of the United States then severely criticized the financial program not only because of its content and priorities that we did not want but also because of the fact that it contained an irresponsible economy based on unrealistic grounds. We warned a number of times that if the years were out of the way, the government would be in the straitjacket that financial advisers and other people have so often mentioned in their indications. In fact, financial advisers have repeatedly warned of these weaknesses, and when a financial plan was first submitted to 2018, financial advisers said by the president's permission: There is no public financial level, and much can be done by the most uncertain conditions in the nation's population since collapse. This was not an unforeseen event. It was foretold that this could simply happen. During the production of financial programs in April, financial advisers, including, on the permission of a president, said: To illustrate: Governments seem to have been in a straitjacket of their own policy in terms of survival goals. The Management Board is now under way from action and policy development. The financial adviser has repeatedly warned that such a situation might arise. This could hardly be clearer, Mr. President. Now the government has taken the initiative to use scissors and cut itself out of a straitjacket in which they have so tightly attached. The changes in financial policy are not to be taken lightly, and this is a serious offense to the government's economic regime, to economic management and policy that would last for the last four years for the past 14 months. Admittedly, there is a lot of uncertainty about the economy, which requires view, accurate, clever, and orderly measures to deal with the situation and the necessary infrastructure. But what if the most optimistic predictions fail and the year we do not have the left to go on? So, what do farmers do? In some respects this is answered in the financial program, but it is still on too optimistic grounds. The response of the government to the downturn of the economy is a manifestation of irresponsible right policy and will take the most important action. But now the poor, the students, the aged, the low - and - middle lovers, shall be cut off by the current contractions, people who did not enjoy the journey to the richest. I'm asking, Mr. President, if the Independence Party's economy doesn't begin to become a full-on experience. She's going to be at least an animal for ordinary people and homes in the country. Advertisers of the employee movement and, indeed, professional life have repeatedly pointed out that more than raises are needed in order to ensure a good standing. It requires a righteous tax system, a child's general rights and housing, a tax system acceptable to public service, and especially a safe housing market. This is a completely consistent ideologies of the United States that have repeatedly proposed in this direction that have always been made, even during this council. In spite of changes in practice, which are even written in the Constitution, there is nothing that has been done with the more comprehensive cooperation and respect of the council. During our last administrative conference, we drew special attention to the fact that the next government would have to form a general standard of living, or difficult jobs would be created when things became difficult. Well, it's this morning. Left green and forward, therefore, is fully responsible for this right course because they are aware, and probably sooner than many suspects, choosing partners and trusting the independence party best to hold the stock. That's a fact which doesn't mean that the tax burden of low-and-meditated earners in Iceland has increased more than in our control countries and far beyond the rate of taxes on the highest salary. It's all offered to the Independence Party and his contours. There is no part of the financial program to indicate that this injustice should be changed. In fact, after the last two, three weeks, there is a number of factors that indicate an even stronger direction to the right. The intermediate groups are also given a long nose, and child - reform is greatly impaired but in the past, even though the floor has increased slightly, and our growing system has almost become history. The officers as mentioned earlier, Mr. President, are quite steep, to say no more, which, of course, create uncertainty right now when the last bits of the freezer are taken. The dollar is still expected to remain stable in its forecasting time. It is expected that unemployment will not increase. Growth is expected to remain unchanged, inflation is unchanged and economic growth is expected to take place very quickly. This is a forest bird, Mr. President, and it would be news if this stability had been achieved for so long in the Icelandic economy. I'm asking, "What happens if all this situation fails again? " In fact, there is no OECD state who has experienced such fluctuations in the absolute success of currency and Iceland in the past 15 years. In the past 12 months, the crown's gang has weakened by about 13%, but the decrease in the crown will, of course, lead to higher prices on the imported products we rely on. Everyone knows what that means for the homes of the country. With a weaker crown, we may see a greater inflation, higher growth, and prices that eventually may result in the spread of the public with the new contracts. When we pair this reality with our monotonous professional roads and lack of economic management, we have a very dangerous cocktail. It would be, as I said earlier, tempting to blame the Independence Party for the success of its right policy, but sadly, it thrives under the protective wing of the left party, the left green, and the forwarding party, which had a very strong social barrier that leaned left and is thus disappointing. Mr. President. According to recent predictions, a large part of all functions will change or disappear in the years to come. This will have to lead to more production. This may also reduce eco-efficiency and reduce poverty if we maintain our game. This could also lead to disaster if wealth was more accumulated in capitalors and big companies. Incoherentness could increase, and the combination could be weakened; we would not be ready or would not be able to live up to our welfare. We cannot stop this development or change it, it is international, and we would be participants in it. However, it takes courage and forethought to ensure that it will benefit us and use the whole body. The first step is to create a tax system that will meet that future. Besides, it is good planning to engage in big business and investment in education, so it will only be a big challenge to contribute to high school by 1.2 billion between the two months and now, so I'll keep it up. And the total number will take place for the next five years. The university without LIN gets the same number as 2024. It's simply not a big education press here. Knowledge articles are also becoming self - centered. New creations and studies have reached less than 3.2 billion less than expected two months ago. Still, it's the highest. Today, the prime minister in the Norwegian house is reporting a new fund, which will assign 300 million to a similar project. What kind of bullshit is this, Mr. President, already in the shelter of the house here is being cut down and even carried back despite the fact that numbers are on paper, but men can attend press conferences and brag about numbers that may be five times lower than they're supposed to cut down? We, Mr. President, must advance and give everyone the right to be educated so that young people would find it desirable to seek and live in this country. We are a few people who have great potential, but we will never succeed unless we rely on a variety of employment and ensure that all those who may be prowess can cause such things in the same direction and that those who cannot do so for some reason are guaranteed a decent standard of living. This is one way that we can live up to the future welfare systems in a very changing world. We see the nation's dating changing into these changes, and we need powerful companies that are driven by the metropolitan, brilliant people. True, we need to promote an increase in competition and diversity, promoting awareness of the environment and building up our entire job life on it. You know, they sometimes talk about unemployment as one animal, and it's just about the biggest companies. Here are the whole political parties that carry their business, but the fact is, of course, that the majority of all enterprises are small and small, driven by hardy people, who are driven by an active and creative drive and often by vision for the field or closer to the community. We need to make their operation easier. So, Mr. President, we need to build on something far more intelligent rather than simple primacies. But there is nothing that this conservative government does, that cuts down most in these litigation groups, and is the best defender for our major enterprises that use the resources for stigma as our representative of a financial committee has helped me to see that it is similar to the tobacco tax. Mr. President. Finally, I want to infiltrate the environment. During the past few months, millions of young people around the world have gathered and have called for further action against disaster. In fact, some countries have declared an emergency. Therefore, the Conspiracy has proposed a synopsis proposal for a green community contract. We contribute a double amount of donations to the environment now but do not remind them of a billion, as is done here between discussions. We simply need to start thinking as part of one large human race, not destroying all our powders in building walls and fences, thinking that there is some small chance that we can get out of the water isolated. It's never going to be possible, Mr. President. We need much more international cooperation if we are to remain in the highest order. Such thinking must also exist in all lands of the world if mankind is to have a future. We offer ten financing suggestions that are aimed at stopping into the worst and greatest well - being holes and to mark a future application.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator, chairman of the United Nations, for an excellent speech that, of course, I don't agree completely, but I wanted to catch that sentence at once. A senator spoke of the social nerve of the candidates. All I can do is confirm what's happened. A senator is certainly still there. Then I want to take this on and say that this is not a hit on students, desperates, elderlys, or other groups that are involved in our education and well - being. The first confirmation, perhaps 2020, is the same budget form from the current programme. Then there's only a slight reduction and a slow down on the budget plan, it's just a step away. Senator. But I agree with what. A senator's view of the future is that knowledge is of great importance and education too. Despite proposals to slow down the cost of growth, which may include, there are 7 innovations, research, and fields of knowledge. has to do with reassessments in regard to reimbursement for film making - I'm not going to list all of this all, but most important is that there's an increase in cost between 37% and real. Happily, since 2011 we have been able to look to these aspects of future economic growth. This is the largest area since 2011. That's what I'd say is that it's a pleasure for our socialism parties. With regard to the environment, I agree with what it is. A senator, who does not have surgery, that is 24% still. Although there is a reduced rate of spending throughout the period, there is a 24% increase in the time period. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u55	Mr. President. Of course, I appreciate the social nerves I was talking about that the candidates still have. She's got a lot of weight on her, and it's been quite a while since the forward party has been taking part in the left control. Next, pull left green to right control. It is impossible to talk about growth in terms of economic growth. A senator can play on this by taking into account any year. Here, however, we are at 2nd. the financial agenda and must take into account the first suggestions made in the current budget. Then, as noted, there are many areas of cutbacking. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Gunnarsson can laugh as he pleases, but if he doesn't know how to read numbers on paper, he'll do it. There is also no big education campaign, and an increase of any percentage of something that is not enough in the circumstances in which we may have to contribute 2.5% of GDP to disaster in the event that we are going to destroy the project. Likely, we will not be able to get away with less than other nations around us. Of course, that attendance is out of nowhere, and I find it painful and awkward, especially for the left green, which called the last government of Action, the Bright Future, and the Right Relative Party, a government that had been formed. But she did much better in the environment. The first thing this government did was to lower the carbon tax by half. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u56	V.E.G. President. There's nothing else in this situation than just going over and over with the indicators, each on its own. We are talking about a 4.2 billion increase to the environment. It's something. I'm going to talk about social, housing and insurance. Let's take the biographer deal into the plan. We're talking about an increase in child repairs, maternity vacations and the general apartment system. We're talking about an increase now between discussions in housing improvements, which the majority suggest on the changing proposals. Let's go, 17 of them. A senator said that at the top of the economic fluke, we should have tried to stop the growth of expenses. I agree with what. A senator with that -- yes, that's fine because that's when we're up to 29%. [[Up front.]] I'm just proud to talk about that increase, but I can talk about it from 2018, too. That's a 22% increase, so we're talking cost interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u57	Mr. President. There are others who can repeat their references over and over again. I don't know how many times we should chew it into our head. The members of the council here are discussing the changes that have taken place between discussions on financial programs, and this has truly been summed up. In most cases, the expenses take place between discussions on the financial committees. This isn't gonna happen. The worst part is that it's not as if they're pinching the cherry from the cream cake or the unnecessary ornaments of the dresses. No, they're going to get sick. Since a certain amount of money is praised, it is limited to people we already know that cannot survive basic pensions. This may bring forward life, but it cannot take part in all the diversity and the wonderful things that human life has to offer. I'd have thought left green and at least left In these circumstances, the social part of advance might have thought to take a little more of the richest 1% in the country or more capital gains from those who earn hundreds of millions or tens of millions of dollars per year, so I'm not talking about the big money that comes back year after year. No, you can't. What do you say about such priorities? You say at least that if the social nerve is still there, it is deep within it, and then some form of typhus could be protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u58	Mr. President. It's been a good day for the rest of the year. on financial policy and financial plans for the next year. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, considered the circumstances that the committee had to deal with the two matters discussed here. I'm not going to go much deeper into the basics that were under it, but I'm not going to make much more changes. The legal committee was working on and perhaps trying to keep these in more good shape because many things have been said that are fine. However, I would like to start by saying that during the discussion today, it has been shown to be at the highest level. The secretary of finance quoted a fine article in the magazine a clue that has just been published that will help us see how well we can handle economic management as the state's budget, i.e. Public and financial policies have been able to work together to improve the standard of living so that we meet this greatest economic recession for 30 years, apart from crash years, in conditions far different from ours before. Not only is the money policy responding to a recession but it is the government's financial policy to step in to stimulate the right time in the economy. This is important to recall because it is the point of the job. When a legal committee spoke about the financial agenda for the next year and the changes in it, she spoke about it. The adjustment proposal, that's what it's all about. The legal committee may suggest that we are merely surging the uncertainty of the policy. In fact, we also set strict conditions for it, that it is not only used but also that it is normal to set the level for what is expected, that we are not using it to threaten the policy of money. The restoration has also made adjustments in a course where there is a considerable greater scope, but I felt that it was not clear in the prefect's excellent speech that the suggestion was given that men would be looking forward to the suggestion that could work again to make the modern growth reduction process threatened and that we would be on the thin ice that we have often stopped on and at times gone badly. The job we have in this room is to let the strong status of a state fund that has been built up with subsidies, fine leftovers, 400 billion leftovers in recent years, seize the economic setback, step in here, and stimulate this integration of financial policy and public economics so that we can get a good response as soon as possible. In contrast, the task of financial planning is to respond to a 108 billion income drop that has been made in revised national interest. I also plan to make sure that this time a careful discussion was made. The budget panels on other projections have been published, and for the first time we may be not just looking to the standards of the Hague, even though they are the legal benefits that we are expected to see in our work and prepare the Senate, but we carefully considered other economics. We made such a change in the budget, even as it can be because it can still cause two hopes. In itself, the surest way to stand on that platform is to predict that it will probably be much worse than it has been predicted, and you have a very good chance of meeting that you will predict correctly if you say so. However, we are not trying to paint the picture any darker than it is. Rather, we want to be realistic about what we're doing. It is the approach that changes in financial plans for the next year. It is always difficult to predict the future, and things can change, and we have seen them change in a short period of time. I think the value of using the caution that is here will bring us on fast. A greater proportion of legal committees offer adjustments after work that has been thorough and extended for a long time. I'd like to mention that to meet the income contractions, there are some measures to take. They have been shown well in the history of a whale. The chairman of the budget board earlier today, and I'm not going to list all the more. They are recessions, project offsets, and new income. One of the things in our proposals is a postponement of the implementation of the Supreme Commission. This is a classic example of what can be used for implementing projects in the Council Building, which is now closed in time or delayed. That is one of the ways we can cope with this situation. For the first time since we began winning a five - year financial plan according to the law that we will be told about in this discussion, we make a greater proportion of the budget-making proposals for a contribution plan. To date, a financial committee has approached the project to review the plan and direct indications to the government and frame them in words rather than numbers. I want to draw this out, too, because I think this is a good sign that we're getting a better grip on the way we're using this thing. Now, actually, the next career in the state's financial work is making budgets. Once we have voted for the budget plan tonight, as expected, the foundation is for the budget bill to be submitted in the fall. At the price of the financial programme, the budget will then be shaped by these changes, taking into account the changes that will be adopted in votes. A great deal of discussion has been made about innovation and contributions for development. I would like to reiterate that, despite the lack of a new creation policy, a slight reduction of the initial productions is suggested, which, in fact, substantially increase and simply postpone their implementation. However, the conclusion is that we have a 37% increase in donations for innovation, research and knowledge. This is important in view of the discussion that has been discussed here. Like what? The chairman of the budget committee mentioned in his introduction has been a large debate over the affairs of a businessman. They've been discussing the budget for the past few years and after the review of the financial committee. In order to strengthen the financial foundations of the sector, the changes in the majority of them are taking longer to provide them with more money. Our proposal is about 150 million. K. A permanent increase in contributions to the topic field is hosted by the county office. At our committee party, we also provide additional ways for the Minister to cooperate with the embassies, since there are certainly a range of nationalities, in making them sustainable. Thus, the current work needs to be carried out, and a budget committee has been informed of, of reimbursement in a government business now being done in the field of the county, of looking at the development and structure of these reforms, and of their better shapes for what they are and of the tasks they are doing. There are great opportunities that we have not yet worked with, and that work could take much wide and even watch. to various judicial projects that have been referred to, such as reconciliations, which could well be entrusted with these provisions. There has also been a debate about the interpretation that we agreed on yesterday on the Food Security and Agriculture Action Programme. I am so happy that one of the adjustments is made to a greater part of the legal committee presented here to include increased food research resources as well as agricultural research. I think it's very important, and in effect, we meant something by agreeing to this agricultural action programme in connection with a change in the import of fresh meat, while our main weight is a suggestion in this field called marine and fish farms, there is a change in the budget of ocean research. You see, more than a part of the budget is looking forward to that, especially when the economy is a setback, what is the basis for the nation's economic independence. What makes our society valuable? It has been and will continue, and we respond to it in the majority of our analysis work. We were worried about long-term HQ operation. That is why one of us is looking to the foundation that is built by research for the future of these commercial systems. Similarly, we look to the tourism service and make adjustments of 25 million. K. increase of funding to research for travel services. I'm never going to argue that there is some number that will produce the research that we really need. I'm sure it could be much higher, but we're on our way. The majority had quite a talk about the health system, and this has been a major factor in the financial affairs of the state. We put our eyes on nursing and rehabilitation services in the 25th matter field and discuss it in our members, which I refer to in other respects. We may suggest two areas in which, on the one hand, the development of a nursing home that was offered in a financial program will be reviewed and that we take a closer look at the households that have already been built and used in better investments and the interaction with the building plans published in a financial program, but not least to evaluate all of this service from start to end, both how it is built and who are responsible for it. In discussions about this category, especially in a financial committee, it has repeatedly been said that there are different forms of management. In itself, it may be desirable, but this is the responsibility for a domestic business that varies from home to house, and unfortunately it is the case that rural society, who run or have a run - down responsibility for the nursing homes, carries heavy loads of the loss of their homes. Therefore, the news in committees and proposals are that we want to approach the issues of aging by a minister considering appointing a cross - political committee that takes this group more intensive and also to look for other ways, possibly more efficient and less expensive, in order to meet the increased needs of the nation's age and that we have in the next years more elderly ones we need to attend a service today. hosting nursing homes to determine whether it is possible to approach in ways other than using expensive planning methods. This is the core of the changes I would like to make during the final meters of this discussion if it begins to shorten, a respectable president. Otherwise, it is our role in the disposal of financial and financial policies in the long term to be careful to keep the state's strong position and the balance that needs to be applied to money policy. The role of the government contracts, which have been called biographies, and the large deposit that the government had in the labour market so that they could come true - they are responsible and important, and we also need to take care of the role that we shouldered there. All of a sudden, I think we can say after the great work and the long time we've had this Senate case to treat a budget that can only be said for the year. However, there are some signs that are not here, despite this temporary setback that we can perform quickly in the Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u59	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir While Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in earlier some days and other legal committees, the deputy listed here has taken a detailed look at many of the factors mentioned in the program. I may not be going to repeat it in detail. First, though, I'd like to say that the nature of the situation, in which this is the first time for a revised financial program, is not unusual to say that it is changing from its previous strategy, especially when it is seen as the changes in the Icelandic economy, some of which have been seen to a certain extent, but others less clearly, requiring the responsible administration of its proposals and schemes to ensure that the government operates, the government's services, the reforms of which the state is responsible, will continue to serve its subjects in a way that we all want. I've been fine listening to the discussion today. There have been varying degrees of detail, a verse - sized figure. In the beginning, I'm gonna focus a little on the big movie. I will talk about financial and financial policies at a fairly constant rate, with both issues in this discussion. Interestingly, despite the many years. However, those in recent times and weeks have called cutbacks in this program, so during the period of the strategy, the government's charges are raised by a total of 19%, which is not a small amount of money. That's less than 164 billion. It may be, Mr. President, easy to speak in large numbers when you're used to it and you may have wondered about it, but you may be inclined to lose sight of the big movie when you begin to get absorbed in the details of such plans. The plan, i.e. On the one hand, and on the other, the strategy is natural based on new economic forecasts. Of course, when the year's economic forecasts were predicted in third percent of the interest rate this year, this year's economic forecast is based on what is now the plan, where the movement is assumed to be 0.4% in Habitat's predictor. These are remarkable changes over a short period of time. They certainly reflect the fact that both I and others have mentioned in previous talks at the General Assembly that we have an economic system that, despite all relatively small, is based on relatively few foundations and even relatively small numbers within the single sector of economics. We are, for example. so the failure of a single airline in Iceland would bring prosperity, which would certainly be much less if we were in just a million people. These are facts worth remembering. Of course, it does not change the fact that we are a small economy, which, as a result, takes blows differently from larger economic systems. These changes are failed first and last, with the removal of the rest of the government. There are subsidies that can be paid from previous programmes, and there are changes in tax systems, in part by revenue but also in part, to meet the changes in the economy that can meet the worst, so that the worst are not affected. Thus, this year's tax losses are presented and related to the collective agreements just thought that they will bring the lowest salary and the lowest income. It's all very important, Mr. President. We are here to form a picture that is important to remember to add in green taxes, which is exactly the call I've heard, directly and indirectly, in the talks of many members of Congress, today and in the past few weeks, and that's fine. Of course, it can always be said that it can be done better, and of course it would be desirable for all of us to be on the page to collect green taxes, but not all of us there. The signs in the community, however, are a source of great comfort. One week after week, we have seen young people in the East demand that governments take action in the environment, and in fact, there is evidence of that in this financial program. Environmental contributions during the period increase by 24%. And again, Mr President, since the percentages may not say everything, we're talking about an increase of 18 billion to 22. That's over four billion people there. That's what matters. I spoke up, reminding me of the financial agenda talk last year, including... concerning the criticism of how hard the floor in financial policy was and, as more people have, pointed out the problem we were facing in case of trauma. It would be difficult, within course and within the scope of policy permit, to act. The financial committee is in charge of the changes made here on the very issues involved. The unsuspecting space in a published financial programme was 0.4% up to 0.8%. This does not mean that the uncertainty range will be used. However, this means that governments have the tools needed to cope if the blackest images in the economy become reality. This is important. Despite the recession of government income, as have other public speakers today, contributions to the vast majority of the areas of well - being are increasing. In fact, the overall increase in budgetary donations is 23◯32, i.e. Health and health issues, 93 billion over the period of the schedule. Expenditures for these classes are up to 533 billion, or more than half of the total cost of the state. Where there is a reduction in budget increase, the largest changes are seen in implementation teams, which become greater in the second part of the budget, which is natural because we do not assume that economic downturns will be so long that the State will have to maintain a high level of development so as not to deepen the crisis throughout the whole period. This is important. There is one particular thing I would especially like to mention in this relationship, as a boy. paritaprevir In fact, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came a little earlier in his speech, that is, the change in contribution to the team Nurse Service and Rehabilitation, as a topic area of No. 25. You see, that's the way it is, and I've said it before, and I'm going to continue to tire. Council members are to discuss this, that if we were to continue on the same course in the number of cost increases within the lawsuit class, according to the predictable increase of numbers among the elderly, i.e. If we were to stick to the same cost model, we would end in a relatively short time by blowing up the government's budget frame. If we were to give ourselves the same basis 20 years in advance, we would then have to build some 8,000 new nurses. Hv. Congress officials must see that it would be a little strange approach to the future to continue after 20 to 30 years of dating the same model, i.e. to make sure that the people remain in nursing homes in their home. Me, at least. as a healthcare professional, in this particular subject, i.e. The concern of elderly or gerontologists does not consider this to be an exciting vision of the future, so I rejoice in the approach of the committee that it really needs to take over and see if we can't see new ways. Some members of the Parliament have talked about the lack of the increase in innovation during the period of the strategy. Yet, it is moving from 14.9 billion to 19 billion. Again, the economy, such as the Icelandic, is based on a relatively few foundations, needs that we promote innovation and make contributions to them. But at some point it would have seemed quite well to add a group of donations to one of 37%, and I think I'll stick to that explanation. That's pretty handsome. Of course, we always wanted to do more. Of course, we always wanted to see that the Kingdom and the community as a whole had more space than we might imagine. It has also been discussed during the discussion, not only in the council, but in the community, that this financial program is subject to cutting down certain groups in the community and the elderly and the desperate. Of course, this is not true. It is very important, Mr. President, that the contributions to these classes are being made clear in this discussion. Only between the years 2019 and 2020, contributions are made to the Synonym Arcity and the affairs of disabled people from over 68 billion to more than 72 billion. I don't expect there to be many in here or among those who really believe that the number 72 is less than 68. I don't think that's likely to happen. The same is true in the case of the elderly. There is also a significant increase. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion beyond what is already said, but I'd like to finally say that financial and financial policies of the time are probably based on a plan. Today, we base it on the forecasts that we have and, in fact, more than one. They can change, as predictions have been made over the years. I'm pretty sure the current government will respond as necessary, when and if it comes to a reevaluation of this program next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u60	V.E.G. President. After watching the discussions here today, I'm a little surprised to see some independents come up here and say they're probably adding a hell of a lot of money to the system, everything else is out of turn. But this is honest because they are certainly doing it, i.e. to add to the system. In many litigators, it was extremely important to help those who are in the palace's feet and to add wood, while others are just expanding. I don't think there has to be a straight line between increased expenses at all, for example. the state's infrastructure and growth in annual work. In this context, I would like to read from committees from a greater part of the financial legal committee that shows interesting details about the annual work of Kingdom workers. It says, by permission of the president: In 2011, the A section of the State was almost 16,400 years of work, but it slightly decreased until 2015 when the annual work was 16,243. Thereafter, they are increasing and last year they were about 17,580 years old at Part A. There is an increase of more than 7% in the overall period and an increase of 8%. Three years. Development reflects the increased financial resources of institutions over the past few years, with all growths being carried out in the course of 2016•2018. Changes in the most part's proposals include expected to reduce the previously estimated rate of interest in several major classes of case during the period of 2021◯2024. The development of the state's headcount suggests that it is practical to achieve this without any significant change in policy. What do these figures reveal? Yes, it was being taken in the right direction, but the annual growth is justified because it was in line with the expansion of the show in 2016-2018. While the adjustment is good, where the booth is to be reduced 2021, I ask: Why not immediately 2020? The only explanation I can see is that in 2021, there is an election. Does this government not trust to shrink, or does it not? In fact, the suggestion is that it is realistic to achieve this without the need for significant direction changes. I wish that this was the very focus of change. There's something else I'd like to mention. Total expenditures at prices of 2019 to the media range from 4,000 million in 2018 to more than 6,000 million in 2024. The idea is fine in that there is not just one firm in a competition at the entire budget, but would not have been an ideal opportunity to reduce the size of the public company, even a quarter? Still, we should be able to fulfill our role. It would also be possible to make the most of the money saved so that all media can ask for strength. For example, it may be designed to produce Icelandic material. We know that the level of screen - use of young people has increased dramatically and that the outlook of linear programs has diminished. Does that mean that it is proper to add without a pause? Although many negatives can clearly be said about the use of children, it has positive side effects, e.g. I almost claim that the young generation today is much better in English than we are here in this room, at least. if we compare our age. This doesn't make me believe that the interest in Icelandic material is enormous. You may need only one phone call at VOLV or Standard 2, or Símann, or any other person who has produced Icelandic material, to confirm that there is a great deal of interest in Icelandic material, but it is limited, and it is very expensive. Besides, I can't help bringing up the insurance fee, a price I think would have had to lower faster in order to help employment become better equipped to bloom and be able to interpret, for example. More people in the time of a down cycle. There are many areas where the need is greater, but since we do not know exactly what is behind the total numbers, we know of examples that are plainly stated incomprehensiblely unreasonable, as if people are being taken off to foreign assignments that are worth much of an effort on land. For some reason, this has not been changed. I don't think that's the money of the people in the country, but I hope there's not much of it in this program. I hope that the expenses offered will be used most wisely for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u61	Mr. President. The situation today in the economic situation of the nation does not have to be surprising. We who live here rely on few but very large, important support in the economy. We rely on this to enable tourists to land smoothly at the Cheflavor airport and make good use of their food and drink, that fish swim into our jurisdictions that we hunt and sell, that this is where we can tap water that we can make new energy for the industry. All of this creates high export costs that are crucial to our economy. These basic pioneers have a common need to be sensitive to external influences and forces that are not before them. That is why when the harshness of the valley and its trauma takes place, we are facing that situation. A large airline recently stopped working, and we now face the fact that there will be a failure. Both of them put a big bar in the account of the government. As in the past few years, when things are going well and with the basic elements of our work are going according to nature. It is easy to forget the place and the hour and not face the fact that for us to endure stability here, we need to consider building a pillar that produces distressing weathers and paces, supporting that do not bend and swinging like a leaf in the wind. I'm talking about knowledge and intelligence, creating more valuables from our limited resources and finding new ways to create solutions and services, going new ways to use the raw materials found here. You can see that everyone here has to lie down on one thing. On the contrary, I'm not saying that we should abandon our productive industry, obviously we need to consider new paths and how to increase valuables and exports in a new way, ways that are less fallacious when it blows. Sadly, as a nation, we have faced a similar situation. Most people here are likely in a fresh memory when the fishing nation, with the release of a bank at the tip of the road, had become a financial center on international standards during the early years of this century. Some here may recall what came - and went - in the 1960's. Then let's not forget the mackerel who swam completely unexpectedly into our jurisdiction at a critical moment after the collapse of the economy. During long periods of economic growth, when the fur, the mackerel, and tourists play here with each other, it is easy to lean back and forget how precarious that situation is. In historical context, we have not been particularly good at keeping our eggs in more than one basket. In order for the economy to flourish, there must be fertile soil for zealous people. The examples show that we have valuable human life here, which makes deeds talk despite the challenges of Icelandic employment. In recent years, we have seen an investment in sceptres making it threefold between 2017 and 2018. Then we also witnessed a big story in Icelandic business history when we saw the Icelandic sceptre company selling foreign people to a high value of money. A fall. That company stepped on a deck over a decade ago and introduced its business concept, an idea that was put into practice by a successful party, building up an international company, which, in time, became in its own article. This would not have been realized if it had not been here people who were willing to fulfill their dream, a new knowledge, education, and the human race here in the structure and value of it. And then what? people ask. When will the next grand sale of the Icelandic sceptre company, a sale which will provide large sums of money to invest and provide its founders with an injection to start a new company and continue to build a powerful knowledge society on the land? To maintain a good lamp in the field of knowledge in this way, we would have to look at a similar sale every two years, but that is not the case. We're lucky if we see that happen every five years. To accomplish this, you need to make such a firm effort that there is a steady flow of new enterprises, which, in turn, jump with their idea and courage to weaponize. We've seen construction of new companies, including software companies, who have made money in new fields and made new markets. It is obvious that landstones need to be removed to build a business, thereby making a significant contribution for increased economic growth. In order to accomplish this, however, the soil needs to be nourishing so that the scepters and the seed can grow. I'd like to mention a few things here. Here the environment needs to be established for the job life, making it possible for successful people without business restrictions to set up new companies without unnecessary effort and government involvement. A good education and, therefore, access to good human resources are important, a good access to investors, both domestic and foreign, who can do business without business restrictions and, knowing that this is a state of stability and dependability in the company's working environment. More is needed in order for the work of knowledge as well as for others to thrive here, such as access to experts who can come to this country and work without obstacles. It is obvious that in a small community such as ours, the life span of a company is not far off before it has to go beyond the rocks when it comes to recruiting people with specialized international experience. Then I'd also like to name a company that hasn't shown any income yet. They need to be able to work in a business format, which assumes no income in the first year. It is necessary to give shelter to the wands during the first few hours of work from burdensome duties while setting up the company. Remuneration-related expenses, such as insurance and other fees, make the pay amount high and just a fraction of the total pay paid by an employer goes into the employee's pocket. The rest will pay for the public. Finally, I'd like to name the mother of all the challenges to Icelandic professional life. A small currency swinging like a leaf in the wind does not give good promises of stability to foreign investors. A currency that is sensitive to any external situation will make it appear that its value is never constant. More instability leads to greater risk and greater risk results in higher growth. That's what we all know. In the end, high interest rates cost large amounts of money each year. What is the result of a dollar in a Icelandic company? Export companies, big and especially the smaller ones growing, are faced with the fact that long - term schemes are almost impossible. When income is worth more than the cost of much human resources, it works against each other in the United States. Of this troubled position, an enterprise, e.g. for tourism and software projects, not ran short. Mr. President. So I'll witness in word. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son from earlier today, it is a political decision to set our priorities in government matters. We are not asking for financial contributions for the support of individual branches or companies. On the contrary, we want money to be prerequisite in the pursuit of innovation's environment. First and foremost, we want to see that all burdensome business pressure is removed, pressures that inhibit innovation, and new opportunities in this country to increase the economic foundation, the founding of financial failures. Thus, after a few years, we will be on the road to failure or trend toward trends in the choice of tourists, we will have a number of major jobs that have many challenges and challenges. Mr. President. Hv. Senators. Let us learn from history and learn from what is taking place around us one more time. For example, think of further development and development of future work projects and many opportunities that increase quality of life and prosperity for all who live here. This brings us to the question of why we are faced with the grim situation. Reverence has spoken of the importance of moderation in economic growth. There is serious evidence that the decline will be both deeper than the government has declared and possibly more long lasting. It is absolutely irresponsible not to be more cautious than it is to witness under these circumstances. Furthermore, it is important to be in total charge of the development of government expenditures over the past ten years and to investigate the results of the expansion. At the same time, economic initiatives will be under way, focusing on increased government efficiency, union of institutions, and electronic administration. All means of efficiency must be sought in cooling economy, economy, and improved use so that there is no need to be a reduced service. This is a proposal for a restoration, which the Senate will vote for later. In today's recession, extra investments are needed to offset the current contractions that have begun. Plans for such investment must be accelerated and increased by 20 billion a year for the next three years. In turn, we're opening for the third part of Iceland Bank, along with the rest of it. We don't think there's enough unsuspecting financial policy. Although it is increasing, we believe it will be increased from 0.4% to 1.5% of national production for the next three years. Such space is necessary in order to create space in the cost of the coming down cycle. The government's problem is predictable and has repeatedly been warned that the government has built its plans on far too optimistic economic forecasts. There is an occasion to address the criticism of a financial body that points out that the government's problem is more of a poor financial regime than the revised economics of Iceland's Habitat. This alone did not justify a review of financial policy, but in view of the fact that the Habitat is expected to be irresponsible, it would not be irresponsible to reevaluate policy. This review emphasizes the need for past mistakes and investments to be restricted. In times like this, it is both important and at the same time that the State has to add to its investments. Reverence criticizes the government's plan to cut down the estimated 10 billion investments during the financial period. This provision, as well as an 8 billion decline in the ideal micro-organization patients and a 10 billion reduction in health costs, is one of the largest legal provisions by the government on the budget gate in a revised financial programme. Thus, in an investment effort to speed up city - line road projects and to complete a double-flash Ryjanes and Southland roads, resurgence is suggested. In order to crown the failure of the government, it is now suggested in a revised financial programme to reduce planned donations for innovation and research, which is a step in the wrong direction from trusting the support of the European economy. Reverence has spoken for responsible management and the importance of not running ahead of business. Our suggestions take into account all of them. Mr. President. Making more of a smaller subject is the magic of innovation that transforms the current state and thus is a revolution of innovation, when smaller resources are converted into more products and more valuable. But despite the flashy sky, there is one thing that will not change so easily, whether Iceland continues to be the popular destination of tourists or the fish swimming in the ticket or not, here is going to continue to live a tough, resourceful people, and there is a resource we have to use, people who are willing to take the fight and meet challenges that are facing today. And they're big. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u62	President. I need to correct one thing about the fish farming business that the majority approved yesterday. At my vote, I saw that the manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, was deeply hurt by words I fell down and was guilty of, so I decided to take a closer look today and correct the situation. It is true that a professional employment committee has adapted bad fish breeding bill a lot, and I have praised the committee very much for that. It's the right thing to do, too. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé took many of the special interests of the people and worked very well on the committee. For this, I have repeatedly commended him here and on the committee. It is also true that the employment committee partially retracted certain adjustments in the case. It is true that this happened after the complaint of special interest stakes. I was wrong to say it was last night. The truth is, it was the last Friday, as I was pointed out, and the committee then did not bend to the freckles of an enterprise on a fishing road last night, as I mistakenly thought. It is good to know that she did not, and it is good for her to be able to correct it. Since it is important to tell the people the truth and correct what happens at the council, I thank you for being corrected and thank you for this opportunity to correct. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u63	A respectable president. I was going to complete one chapter of my committee opinion, and then I was just going to explain my adjustment proposal to a Senate resolution on financial policy. I'll start with the rest of the financial process. It has mainly three lines below, a total of state funds, total share of rural society - and their natural impact on overall survival in the A-part - and then an uncertain vector for debt. When this adjustment is paid, I view it as a vote for these changes, not as a whole, but as a vote. This is only the case with accuracy, but the change is about the three lines, the overall survival of the state funds, rural communities, and the uncertainty gap within debt. This aim is to produce an increase in the later years of the period for a fixed budget maintenance, with e.g. the increase of capital taxes, and sharing it with rural society to meet the worse supply of rural society, e.g. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That would be, for example. has been done by telecommunication, for example. It was noted in earlier debates that it was not completely clear what an uncertainty gap in debt meant, but it simply means that there is room to keep debt higher than expected if economic issues get worse, if GDP starts to fall, which means paying off debt to keep the same debt. However, if gross domestic product declines, the same overall level of debt can be maintained, changing the debt ratio to a higher proportion of GDP. This is so that there can be a slight gap in the decisions made regarding debt and survival. Only since the last section of the Committee opinion, on biographies relating to financial programmes. April 2nd. published an article in the core that claimed that the prerequisite for collective agreements to be realized was the presence of the government, and there is a quote from Ragnar Þór in VR. At that time, a government resolution on the main lines of collective agreements was issued. It shows that it is impossible to know what is expected of governments. It was also reported in the media that by permission of a president, the state's approach would have to be significant. It is vital to consider this declaration in the context of the publication of a government policy strategy, which was distributed on March 23, more than a week before this proclamation was published. The following day, the government's actions in support of the labour market lifetime agreements appeared. This is where the term biographer agreement first appeared and must be considered relatively likely to have been planned in advance since a beautiful commercial sign was printed by the term, as shown in a picture published in a news report on mbl.is. The government's actions include 45 action to support biographies. However, a document that follows that announcement contains only 38 points. The complete number of operations missing in the document has not yet been answered. Moreover, when considering the actions, it appears that most of the measures not all are already listed in the government budget. How, then, can it be that more than a week after government policy is revealed and that the next day any action to support treaties that are already planned? How might such measures be considered significant? How did governments manage to print up such beautiful commercial tables around their support projects that were called in such a short period of time? The only obvious answer is that everything has been ready before a government's handsome approach. It is also obvious that the leaders of the labor movement and the company of industry were thoroughly aware of the content of the measures proposed by the government to meet the agreements when they were called for considerable resources, such as that they are all in financial planning and, in accordance with the words of Sólveig Anna Jónsdóttir, by permission of the president: ▪ I will indeed recommend these contracts, and, of course, I am optimistic about people accepting these agreements; we will go thoroughly into introducing them to members of the community. So said Sólveig Anna Jónsdóttir, president of the Ephings, after the opening of the biographer contract in April. After all, it is just a double presentation of certain points in the government financial programme that made it appear that the measures to access biographies were added to those that have become part of a financial agenda. No doubt, this event was sparked by some public linking in order to make government policy more different from what was available. When the ministers were then questioned about the matter, it was just seen that the government's actions were largely found in financial programs, measures that occurred just before the government was called on to produce considerable government resources. The worst part of all of this is that despite the repeated questions, now more than two months later, the Ministry of finance has not been able to provide a clear explanation of how the biographies affect the budget. What are the biographies, not the financial agenda? The budget has not yet been answered when it is written - and when this is spoken - what aspects of the government's list of operations are new and whether the scope of other factors has increased or decreased. The silence is simply ignominious. It is not acceptable to accept such a financial program. Therefore, I suggest again and again that the budget will be referred to the government for lack of transparency, because the cost scheme is missing, because there is no profit analysis, because there is a lack of priorities, because we have no idea what effect the government's actions against collective agreements have on the plan. Because they need funding for the necessary and predictable nursing business. For all these reasons and many others, it is not acceptable to spend time in such a financial program. I can't be any clearer than that. So that the General can decide whether or not the funds are going to be carried out on the government's policies, the government needs to provide us with a list of expensive and profitable measures and priorities for the list of priorities that it considers most important, and especially so that we can see that, if financial contributions are decreased or even increased, any tasks or actions are added or fall out. With reference to the mitigation process that was surrounding the announcement of biographies and that the government has not yet responded to the impact of these collective agreements on financial programs that now seem to have no effect, since all the aspects of the budget have already been submitted in March, I simply don't feel well at work. I don't like it. I don't like it. I don't like it. That's why I want to send this back to the government's prisoner so that it can give us a better, more profitable financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u64	The President intends to conduct the vote in both cases, i.e. The 3rd part and 2nd followed by the session, to vote on the conditional papers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u65	A respectable president. The form is a little too accurate here, but this motion is about changing three lines, i.e. the entire income of state funds and rural society, followed by the uncertainty backwaters for debts. That's the adjustment proposal. The other things are getting a little out of the way, but they have to set out somehow in this form. I consider it to be a vote for these three lines where the contribution of state funds and rural society is increased by 0.1% of GDP by various measures, e.g. increase in fiscal taxes and share of value taxation with rural areas to support rural income populations. Also, the uncertainty shift for debts is increased because if prospects go so that GDP declines, this space must be limited to not paying off debt when the ratio changes. However, it is possible to reduce e.g. interest rates by renovating new debts with lower interest, end up with high debt on pay days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u66	Mr. President. These changes forced by the government groups are now a serious offense to the government's economic policies. The course was to last for five years, but it lived for some one year. The independent financial body speaks of weakness in economic management and the lack of fine work. Indeed, the union agrees with that statement and considers the economy under the Independence Party to be fully experienced and, in fact, costly to buy for an ordinary home and company in the country. Many things we're responding to here were completely predictable and were told last year. In addition, we are deeply concerned that the basis for this course is both unrealistic and unrealistic, so we all refer to the responsibility of this matter to the governments where it belongs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u67	A respectable president. We have submitted very responsible suggestions, fully financed, to meet, and even to meet them. the down cycle we face. We want to stop the shock, the breakdown, from causing the most and the worst in the homes and SMEs in the country. We have offered suggestions on this, and we strongly warn that taxes will be raised during this period, prefer that they be reduced, viewed by the insurance bill, and more taxes. We also place great emphasis on the fact that the next cycle will be done in rich transport activities in an effort to soften the impact of this downward trend. We have also offered suggestions on how we will finance this and even finance it. suggested that the uncertainty shift in financial policy be increased. This proposal turns even. about that. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u68	A respectable president. These changes will help you cope with changes in economic conditions, including the following: to increase uncertainty, by slowing down the debt and improving only to revenue levels. Nevertheless, pensioner payments are increasing. Here's a smart response to a changed situation, and I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u69	A respectable president. I agree with these changes regarding the uncertainty gap in the greater part, but they are not the same as the government and the greater part should have a T-minus to do, unlike us in the smaller parts. That's why I don't vote for the change. But I think this is positive in view of the government's contribution proposal, with only 0.4% of the uncertainty curve. I think that might be a reason to have the uncertainty range a little more than this is a good addition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u70	V.E.G. President. First, let me correct a minor error on page 20. 3 more part on the financial program is included in the Committee's list. It compares economic forecasting, February and May forecasting, which states that the year's unemployment will be 3.7% and 3.2% in the following year, almost unchanged from the previous year, but should be: but rise next year to 3.8% and stay close to the percentage of the predicted time. Of course, I'd rather thank you for a good discussion today about both the issues we're voting on right now, we're done with a policy, and that's a plan. This program reflects the strong position of the government and the reasonable financial administration of the past. I'd like to state that we're here to celebrate planned budgets on 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u71	A respectable president. I'm not interested in giving money to this government until it explains what it's going to do with the money. This financial strategy simply looks like they need a priority list, they need a cost - benefit analysis, there is no rationale in what government policy really means as to the resources we're accepting in these frames. That's why I'm a descriptor. The government's supposed to do better than that. That's why I don't vote for any of the changes that are here in changing the spending range of the topic areas here and there, and that's why I'll vote against the budget, if it can't be dismissed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u72	A respectable president. It is impossible to ignore the unusual circumstances involved in this matter during this spring. It's a result of a very rapid return to our economy on WOW's bankruptcy and other bad news, of apes, coming in the spring months. This led to a relatively recent revision of economic forecasts, and we suddenly look forward to a slight temporary recession in the current year. This puts the council in a narrow position because it was time to review all the many issues, and in my department, it took a long time to calculate the effect on both the income and the remuneration sides. Therefore, I find very special reason to thank all those who have worked hard to reach this overall picture. I feel that I have done well, and although this is how we should go through financial programs with these changed prospects in front of us, I believe we have made a good decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u73	Mr. President. In spite of a government expenditure of less than 5,000 billion, certain groups are left behind - and more, these are the groups that have been cut off by the current contractions. This government does not want fair trust in the government's income institutions and should take on the proposed cooling of the economy. The United States calls attention to the development of a financial policy since March. it was bad, but it's getting worse by making some changes in the more part here at the council. Economic stability is important, but social stability is also important. These two things have to go together, and they don't do it here today. The Company wants to invest in the future and protect the welfare and aim for all the changes made by the United States tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u74	A respectable president. In view of some - great but hopefully temporary - changes in economic forecasts needed to be reacted and because we are in good position, because we have prepared for this, the government and the larger parts of the council could respond by walking on produce, by reevaluation of expenses, by increasing digital and electronic government services, by going to further revenues, and by slowing down expenses and parallels. All of this has been mentioned by those who have criticized the financial agenda here and the financial agenda. On the other hand, people have taken only one past and have intended to go that way. As has been said about the financial program in recent years, a part of the government's opposition is just going through expenses and then having some fake income, while others say that there is going to be a huge drop in taxes and a lot of things without saying where to react. [[The president calls.]] The government is responding to all of this, and I thank a financial committee and, in particular, her chairman, Willum Þór Þórsson, for a great job in the short term, to bring this in here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u75	Mr. President. In recent years, government expenditures have increased as a result of much growth and taxation. Governments seem to have trusted that income would continue to grow. Despite the rise and increase in tax returns, government funds were expelled with minimal access. The newborn had the best way of living for the downtrodden. Another new tax is laid on people and businesses at over 11 billion dollars. under the merit of environmental protection and climate. The government is now taking full advantage of taxation, which is unclear to produce results in climate. The state council continues to expand on the independence watch. The prerequisite order of spending is false; the previously proclaimed donations to those less fortunate in society, such as disability, are cut off. The increase in IRS is positive, but it may be noted that the government submits to this proposal from the central body of the budget. The development of the greater part is unclear and is made quite clear to the Commission, but it has not provided any suggestions from a financial committee on how it will work out the tasks entrusted to them according to the Committee's opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u76	Mr. President. The financial agenda we now have is a continuation of the building work done in the time of this government, where we have seen expenses increase to important issues. We see in this programme period from 2017 a quarter increase in expenses to important health, education, transportation, and welfare issues. At the same time, however, there is a lack of good sense in the economy, for the rest of the Kingdom Fund is at first. Happily, the state funds were prepared to cope with this contraction, including On account of a reasonable economy. Second, by improving revenues through the development of environmental taxes and taxes and third, by reducing the previously proclaimed interest rate. This does not change that we will continue to build the necessary infrastructure, so I will support this financial program and consider it a good way into the next few years. Then I'd like to give a loving thanks to the Board of Shepherds, especially her chairman, what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u77	A respectable president. In view of all the discussions that people have been most sorry for the fact that we need to adopt the financial policy because the foundation has broken down and considered the material differences that have been present at the council, it is particularly about whether or not to continue raising the expenses. It is strange to listen to those who have specifically spoken about an increase in expenses in recent years, for example, to increase them further under these circumstances. Or whether we need to reduce the cost of money, ensure that the state's funds do not go to a limit, and keep the promise of a tax cut. In this regard, tax increases have been proposed. A $23 billion tax increase is offered by the United States, 115 billion during the programme period. During this schedule, we are going to lower income taxes on individuals, lower insurance costs, and lower the bank tax, as has been announced. This is the right time and the right circumstances to let oxygen into the economy, and these key measures are fundamental to the agreement that has been achieved in a workforce. [[The president calls.]] So this is a good schedule that supports stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u78	Mr. President. It is not trivial to change financial policy that you have set yourself for four years because you could not look beyond a chicken's feet, despite warnings. However, when it comes to making a decision to cut cuts, it is of prime importance that we do not carry down where all the weak are standing. The union is proud to offer about 105 billion tax increases over the next five years, for it is not low-and middle-temperatures that will carry it, but it's an act of gross wealth which pays off capital gains and interest for tens and hundreds of millions a year, a project that pays about tens and hundreds of millions a year. the same as the tobacco charge, and that's how we could keep going. We want to protect low-and-traveling people, and that's what I thought the left green had to do with it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u79	A respectable president. There have been many problems with the government, the nature of the case. This doesn't change the fact that what I have regularly preached here is that I have felt that the priorities of money were not right. That's exactly why we've made some adjustments in the Gang members of our team. It involves expenses, but these expenses are not spent with an increase in tax returns, but by getting money where it is already. We don't want to postpone the decrease in the bank tax in the period. We do not want to change the price of hunting, so that it reduces 4.3 billion a year, as we do, and we would like to look forward to taking advantage of possible injections into a new national fund somewhere on the program for us and for the least of our brothers and sisters. It's about all the things that this whole move is all about. It's about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u80	Mr. President. The government can be criticized for many things, but one of the most serious is a lack of vision. We now face remarkable changes in society that will completely change our reality. If we are to succeed, we must deal with them. Among the things we need to do are complete education, promoting initiatives, intelligence, and innovation. At that time, we must give added emphasis to actions that will help us to cope with a disaster that is our greatest threat and that will take place for an indefinite period of time. So the body offers a number of suggestions for investing in the future, and we certainly hope that a body of Congress has a vision and approves of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u81	Mr. President. The suggestions are for health care, for older people, and for the disability, for family matters, and for housing support. The union contributes them to some extent that they can protect their well - being. Sadly, those who are in need of government support and service should take up much of the effort under the government's direction. In the United States, we feel utterly unacceptable, and we encourage a world of Congress to reject such emphasis and instead accept the suggestions of our peers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u82	A respectable president. We here vote for what attracts outside the medical community and general health care. All of us know what the situation is, whether it is a flow jam or a waiting list for anything. In fact, this is a matter of absolute reasonableness and justice and it is necessary for us to vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u83	A respectable president. This is about setting priorities for the least of our brothers and sisters. A group of people would really like to strengthen the position of disability, people with $22,000. in the monthly extension. We'd like to cancel a cent for the loss of a cent. We want to do things that would put priorities in behalf of this vulnerable group of people. That's why I challenge all of you to show where we stand against this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u84	A respectable president. More than 300 million are suggested in the Committee to Refuse the Board of Overseers. K. Amputated by the topic fields 35: International Developmental Cooperation to the topic area 4: Foreign matter. This is said to be a collection of maintenance needs and a need to ensure the civilian activity of defense workers at the Cheflavour airport because of the Atlantic Community. I'd like to mean that unchanged activity is too much activity, as indicated by a foreign minister's response to my inquiry, which appeared here in the winter, showing that the presence of an army at the Chefjordur Airport has been permanent in the last three years. Much more should be done to minimize the presence than to increase financial contributions to this situation. However, there is no specific suggestion for this point. So I see myself in the most needy, respectable president, not to vote with the table in question and with the one we vote for in our next vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u85	Mr. President. We'll vote for Table 5 on the total cost of cause burn. Under that table, there is a topic range of international development cooperation proposed by over 600 million. K. reduction to, at the same time as expected to increase contributions to the maintenance of NATO defence workers at Keflavour Airport. I find it shocking that we are down payment on our poorest brothers and sisters at the same time as we are raising contributions for the maintenance needs of military workers at the Cheflavour Airport. Similarly, the same total budget is falling from total environmental expenditures - although they have been increasing in the history of this government in recent years and are well. But I hope that, as the committee calls it, it will help me. The legal committee is expected to make these contributions for development in the fall. I really hope that that word works, but I can't support this pill that it does. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u86	Honorable generals. The General has now completed the arrangements for these regular election winters prior to the Council's summer break. As the members of Congress are aware, this legislature, 149th Parliament, is convened on Wednesday, August 28, to discuss and deliver a matter related to the so - called energy package. During these last days, there has been a smooth record of efforts to be served as a convergence on how the end of the council would be conducted. I'd go for it. The generals thank you for that, as well as for the general cooperation of this council. A total of 120 laws have been approved at the council and 47 conclusions. The answer is 49 verbal requests and 339 written. There have been 35 special discussions, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of written answers have been received from counsellers who have not been able to distribute because of busyness in the processing of documents during the last days. This will be done soon as electronic transmission is slowed. As I announced at the beginning of June 14th meeting. has been hired by RagnaÁrnadóttir the new office manager of the Generals, for September 1st. At the same time, the current office manager, Helgi Bernódusson, who has served as an office appointed since January 2005, and for quite some time the previous years, he was assigned to the office of the vice - office manager. Since 1983, this Helgi has been a regular public service site but has been in part - time service for five years. I was personally elected General General of 1983, so my office manager and I have had a long and close trip to the Alolis scene. Personally, I want to thank you for the introduction and friendship that so much cooperation has created. On behalf of the Generals and of our Generals, I thank him for his loyal service in behalf of the Generals as long as we do. I bring him and his family happy at this breakthrough and I know that his successor and the rest of us who will be in charge here in the months to come, and he'll have to know that if there's anything to be drawn out of his great experience, he'll have it. Now I'd like to ask an office manager, Helgi Bernódusson, to stand up and walk on this floor. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Thank you. Councilmen for this powerful way of saying what I have said. In the following days, the Council of Congress will have its final meeting in this session and will prepare the projects available during the summer season, and I will be interested in the proposal for a reinstatement at the Council of Justice on September 10 of the fall. The annual work meeting of the Presidency Committee, the summer meeting we call, will be held on August 15 and 16 and should be first proposed and discussed. I'd like to bring up some of the most important issues, first of all, a review of ethical principles in terms of recent experience and second, of the rules of access to information at the General Assembly. According to a new code on the value of information law, they are now taking place in the Directorateship of the General Assembly, as further stated by the Council of Congress and the regulations established on the basis of the Commission. The bill to correct a change in the council has already begun for this reason and to work on the rules. I hope to introduce the dates to the next session of the Presidency Committee. Third, I would like to mention a second review of the International Parliamentary Congress, which leads them to discussions and their planning, as well as other related factors. I think that most members of the council are now after the council for the past few weeks somewhat concerned with how our members act in accordance with current regulations and appear daily on news and live broadcasts and on the International Parliament course, especially in view of the lack of confidence they are enjoying at present. All of us face a strange act of counterrecontinents that must be revised and restored to the values established at the time of 1991. The same must be true of that arrangement with the 2nd. The law projection and the second round. Congress suggests that the right to speak is infinite, that humans can keep up - to - date discussions. These factors need to be broadly united. Much work is being done, and more and less fully, ideas have been discussed in the council classes and committees appointed to review these issues with many members of the council. There we find a variety of moves that would greatly improve the entire body of Congress. I hope to get this job done right in the days ahead. Now held at 149 C.E., the legislature has already lasted 865 hours or so - and still remains several days. The expansion of this country goes far beyond that and takes place in our neighbors in the North countries and in most parts of Europe's democratic countries. In fact, the Council stands out as a national body, including look to its underdog. Hence, it is reasonable to ask whether things need to continue to be like this. It is proper to say that the person standing here is fully aware that he is not innocent with boys here at the General Assembly, because I have been in a position of government for a long time, sometimes in a few, and have had to give a lot of attention to me so that no man would notice me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But there may also be no legitimate proof of good conduct in these areas. Is that not how much more and less we all feel about it and those classes that now represent in the General Assembly have a history in these matters, so it is a common subject and that all of us have a work to do? We cannot allow these to stop the natural and desirable development of Congress for the entire 21st century. All of us must stick together in respect and honor of the Generals, but both of us can be earned only. Honor and honor of the Allegorium can be likened to the great cave of Houses in ancient Snorri, the Quartal Rock. She was relatively light to roll off a ledge, but most of them didn't have the power to get her up again, let alone play with Snorri to breast-feed her and carry her around the world. When we generals walk out of this hall, not everyone here is free. Our workers have much left to do with the coming days and weeks of work in the passage of new disposal laws and conclusions, as well as other documents and discussions and to the point where there are a number of problems with some employees'licenses. The pressures of the staff have recently been worrying me, and it is inevitable that there will be an increase in staff members of the Generals unless there is a better organization for the work here. You cannot put the stress on the staff, e.g. A small conference agency, or the rest of the committee, has been there for the past few days and weeks. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Nowhere else do we get closer to making sure that these things are all right than here at the legislature. At the end of the council, I'd like to repeat my thanks to the Generals for your cooperation. Although these problems have been successful, they have been successful, for despite the fact that there have been a period of some weeks of suspension because of conflict in general, they have been able to accomplish very much and have led to successful outcome. On various guidelines, I think that this has become one of the most successful conventions in history - and yet not quite done, as stated in the preceding Summit in the summer. I'd like to thank the vice presidents for their excellent cooperation with the council board, as well as the presidents of Congress and the presidents of the political parties. The Office managers and staff of the Generals thank me for the assistance, and very much, very good work and cooperation, where there has been a great deal, especially these last days and weeks. I wish that the outbacks would have a nice return visit, a happy return home, and expect all of us to meet together at the end of August.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u87	Mr. President. On behalf of us generals, I'd like to present our presidents and vice presidents thanks for our cooperation this winter. I also thank the President for his warm words to us, and most important, I thank the president's cooperation with us members of the council. True, many things have been going on during the council during the winter, but despite dark appearances at some point, experience and clear leadership have made a big difference. I am very happy to be here on behalf of our members of the General Assembly to present thanks to the general staff for their good work and important assistance in various and most unlikely matters. The unprecedented situation that has existed during the past few weeks has brought stress that has mainly affected the staff of the Generals. Because the pressure has come in awe - inspiring ways. Then I will give special thanks to the office manager of the Generals and warm greetings, already at his retirement. In the past winter has been extremely important, not necessarily in terms of matters. It has been under way, and it takes place on emphasis and ways. The weather has been primarily dramatic because of the conduct of our senators, both within and outside the council. That march has not always been to imitate, to the point of not being taken deeper in the years. It is the responsibility of all of us. It would be wish for us to unite in our work to show that we are under that responsibility. I restate our gratitude to the president and the staff of the Generals and ask the senators to accept my words by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u88	Thank you. 7. Smoke. For example, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, warm words, and good wishes toward me. Thank you. Allied members of the council for taking in her words and wishes to me and the members of the General, who I will, of course, agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-129.u89	Iceland's number tells: That, apart from the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the discovery of the General Assembly of 149, from 20 June 2019, or later, if necessary, to August 28, 2019. Go to Reykjavík, June 19, 2019. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the earlier Council of II, I declare that Generalis is suspended in 149. I wish. All council members, council members, and citizens of the country all happy summers.
