ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u1	According to the final paragraph 57th. Parliamentary questions fall down to a minister who will remain if the minister disappears from office. Asked by members of Congress, the Minister of Justice for a change in the government of the United States. It is Thursday, therefore, a time for a return to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u2	Additional answers are: Prime Minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister and Minister of Justice, marine dignitary and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u3	Mr. President. Today, there is a bitter market conflict, perhaps the hardest for decades, and it is a big difference between us. Granted, there are many spears to the government, which has been used to bridge the gap needed and to increase the quality of life and well - being of the entire country. According to ASI survey, 83% of Icelanders want people with total income below 500,000. in a month you will have more tax reduction than others. This is contrary to the changes the government has announced that will bring to the hotel manager the same money as a hotel servant. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Any further tax change would be considered in that direction, i.e. reduction of taxes to the lowest and average wage? Sadly, the habits of disabled long - suffering people have not been so high during the discussion, but they have continued to get worse in the last 20 years. It is now reported that donations are intended to be cut down to the county budget by $3.3 billion. On the other hand, the role of the equation is to finance a portion of services to disabled persons and to the essential services of rural society, many of which have a difficult financial situation. The result could be diminished service to the population, especially disabled persons, and makes it almost impossible for many societies to live under the normal and necessary remunerations, which pay as it is known to be less paid than the government's employees. It's the highest. The prime minister agrees with me that this can result? Does she really think that such an action would bring peace to the situation today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator asking the two questions, perhaps not altogether related, in the beginning of the job market. I'd like to say, in the beginning, that it's very serious that a discussion has been terminated. It has been shown that this is because people do not get together in working time. I would like to use this opportunity in my speech to encourage others to look into all possible options in the present situation. There have been discussions between different parties for a long time, and all I believe is that a solution can be found. A successful solution must benefit all of us and the community. It is certainly true that governments have offered such suggestions. A senator referred to him. I've been over them many times here at the General Assembly, including... Suggestion of the building of a social housing system, which is in great agreement. When we consider what is most important to a person's life, it is especially true of those who do not have their own housing, rent houses, and spend a very high proportion of their income at housing expenses. That's absolutely fundamental, if we're going to settle there, that the problem will be solved, and that's what we need to do with extra supply. Second, it's the tax business. The proposals that governments presented for change all aim to equalize more and more righteous tax systems. It is sufficient to mention the induction of a three - step tax system, which, of course, is an equation, as well as to eliminate a taxation and the fact that these measures are to be fixed to the same standards, in contrast with what has been done. It should be. A senator's particular joy is that we have talked many times about the tax system that will thus be prevented. Third, I'd like to mention the birthworm that we are extending to this year. On the other hand, the workforce continued to be met by government informal talks. [[The president calls.]] But that may not be what the greatest issue is about now, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u5	Mr. President. I completely disagree with the fact that this is a minor matter. The labor movement and the job life have repeatedly pointed out, along with others in this room, that more is needed than a lot of pay to make a person feel well. The problem is that in recent years the government has neglected to maintain the welfare system and, in fact, let some of it fail by making housing improvements almost in history and child damages the average income, and I could continue to count it. We agree on the need for housing. These matters were too late, and they are not financial, but we will see how things are going in the days to come. So I take it to reiterate the question: Is it really possible to take $3.3 billion from an equation fund to a rural society? They are not already subject to the ministry, underprivileged because they have received an assignment from the State, and it is sufficient to include 3◯4 billion missing into the system of aging services.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u6	Mr. President. I think it's important to keep it up when it's hard. One senator explained that child - welfare was impaired that it was, in fact, greatly increased. The number of children entitled to child reform increased by 2,200. The percentages of plaques increased. Let us also honor the truth when we discuss what has been done. Hv. A senator believes that the arrangements for housing are too late. I don't agree with that. However, they showed the need for us to identify the situation and to discern the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures involved. In terms of contributions to the County Fund, there have been dealings with the European Union on the status of the equation. In recent years, donations have increased considerably. Other measures are planned in relations between the State and rural society, e.g. the transfer of the inn-eight bill and other factors. I think that this conversation was not over before the European Union decided to make a conclusion about that conversation, so I'm just saying it. [[The president calls.]] I think it's normal, however, that we talk about this communication between the state and the community, how we want to behave them, and if we want to, for example, to do so. More likely, income stocks are shifted to rural society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u7	A respectable president. A centennial cut of microchip is economic violence that has lasted for two years after older citizens were released from this financial abuse. The government is in addition to some 30 billion people who have been proud of it by not removing the damage from the older citizens at the same time. Age - related microengineering would stop cutting the forwarding, thereby extending its purpose, which is to meet individuals who do not collect rights in a pension fund if a dollar or a dollar went right away. The poorer would enjoy payments that should improve their status, such as mortality, mother and father's wages, physical benefits, pensions, and special savings. The special supplement is about 60,000 k. a month, and if you have one million in your special property, the government will confiscate it in the form of taxes and impairment. Then, those with impaired farms are still put under incorrect and illegal calculations at government command. There are about 1,000 poor people there, of whom there are 200 that the state refuses to pay back today. The government is deliberately and deliberately violating the laws of the land. Also, it's micromanagement that governments and government insurance agencies know they have no rights abroad. Yet, they continue to be violated deliberately and deliberately. The highest. Prime Minister will answer when this illegal economic violence will be no more? This is a violation of those whom should be least broken. And the answers are amazing. If those involved would tell the government and insurance agency, who say that the calculations for paying back were so complex, that they didn't intend to pay their taxes, the calculations are so complex because they're supposed to pay their bills over time, and those who are supposed to pay off a insurance agency would say, "No, I can't pay because it's so complicated to calculate it, they'd come up with it? Or is it just the state that gets away with it to them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u8	Mr. President. V.E.G. This year's Department of Social Affairs has 2.9 billion provision for the disability pensioner. I'm aware, however, that the highest. A minister has given much importance to the fact that the group he assigned for over a year, where the representatives of the microenergy pensioner and the representatives of the labour market - this group have been working for over a year, and one of his goals includes. to reduce the degree of impairment. A senator named here and referred to him. One of his aims is to increase the opportunity for microenergy pensioners to be able to participate in their jobs, e.g. through part - time work, without being forced to do it contrary to its ability. The group has been working this year and the last news I had of him - although I state that he does not hear my ministry, so I do not have a daily relationship with the group - was that his work was in the final meters. I know it's the highest. A minister stressed that the amount of money that has been earmarked and placed on a pair of microchip allowances would be spent at a level with the suggestions made by the group and then, hopefully, in agreement with the representative of the disability pensioners in the group. I agree with what. A senator, I understand the expectation, but I don't know any better than that this group should be on the final meters and should pass the results, because the funds are available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. Yes, I'm one of this controversial group, he's in the final meters. But what is missing? Yes, the will of the government is needed to say right away: We're calling off a cent in return. We just stopped right away. I need an injection in there. You can't wait all the time. When I ask when this should happen, it's said, "When the bill comes out." The bill can appear in two years. Should nothing be done for an invalid until two years, or one year? Why can it not be done immediately to meet people and display color? The Kingdom has had 30 billion of this group, 30 billion. Why don't we stop now and say, "Hey, we'll just sit down, we'll pull a penline over this, pay you right now. And then there's the other: Why on earth can't you pay them 200 people, and more than what has no rights abroad pay them rights right away? Why is it even necessary to wait for the next two years to pay retrospectively and prospectively?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u10	Mr. President. System change 2016, just like that. A senator witnesses to this point, was taken care of at the General Assembly. But I'd like to remind you that at that time, it was the National Union of senior citizens who wanted that system modification to be complete, while representatives of micro-energy donors couldn't support it. So let's keep it up here that there's a reason why this system change was done only for older citizens at the time. I wasn't in the government then, but let's just keep it together how it was. Second, I'd like to say, "Hv. A senator is a member of this group. I encourage him and others in that group to finish. I agree with the highest. Social Affairs Ministers that it is very important that we be working out some long - term vision. I don't know any better, from the reports I've had of this group, than the big lines are in the vision. I encourage those sitting there to finish this job so that we can make the financial resources that are available go to work for micro-energy pensioners. That must be our common goal, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u11	Mr. President. It has been reported that representatives of the Justice Department informed a financial committee that the cost of trust may be up to 2 billion dollars. more than 3 billion funded for the party and due to increased number of applications for asylum in this country. Thirty-four. a law on public financial matters says: If there is a significant variation between real cost and financial resources, or if there is any reason to believe that it is, the relevant minister should immediately inform the secretary of the reasons and the measures he has taken, or intend to take, to prevent any interference between physical spending and financial resources. So I ask the highest. Minister of Justice on the measures taken by the Minister or the plans to use to prevent any variation between real estate and financial resources. Two billion are a lot of money, Mr. President, and may be of great benefit in many places, especially in the medical system and in helping with those who are living in palaces.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u12	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Because we are asked what action a minister has already taken, it is not that we have formally taken action on this matter. But I've been informed about the situation. What I first thought was that we must celebrate this recent order, that the arrangement was in this way. Not long ago it was not. The responsibility has become clearer, i.e. where she belongs each time in the process, for example. For more money than can be expected in strolls. Now we're working at the Ministry calling for information from the Foreign Institute on what might be done to manage this situation, review it, and then offer specific suggestions. The problem that has been many in recent years and seems to be still, and it was a review for me when I came back in there, is to find how the system can deal with it when we have to react, so we need more weight and strength to resolve matters faster to prevent a number of people from serving, waiting too long. It is absolutely recognized that it is not good for anyone, especially when it turns out that the person is not authorized to stay here, is not allowed international protection, and is sent back. Then it's not good to have been here a long time, to be connected, and all of it. However, it is totally recognized that there is an advantage for all, although well done, to settle matters quickly and that the system is efficient. That's really the job, i.e. how we can have a system where we can respond, when we need to put more weight on handling matters faster, against the fact that the funds go into service when the number increases on that side. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answer and want to agree with her that it is of importance that the system is efficient because it is under a lot of money that is not being used. It is also very important to hold on to budgets, and third, it is very important not to send messages that have fallen to encourage people to take refuge in a land that does not meet any conditions for such. We are familiar with discussions about unfounded applications. I allow myself to ask whether a minister is concerned with me because the city authorities have arranged to allow this tabernacle here and the church's chief men to turn the country's own cathedral into some kind of public house, let me say, so that protests to open the border will be carried out. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u14	Mr. President. Regarding the protest in the East, it is true. According to one U.S. senator, Reykjavíkurburg gave permission for the setting up of these tents - although the protesters were to take them down at eight o'clock in the evening, which was not done. But Reykjavíkurburg did not do anything about it and did not request police action. Now this tent has been taken down. But thus, in the large context of protesting in the East Field, protesting in the East is the right of the Constitution to protest in the East. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This I'm saying, because when we have certain rules, all of us must follow those rules, whether they are protested on this basis or on others. I say, thankfully, there was no further use of police at any point. The protests are no longer the same as they were yesterday, but they are in some way out here. [[The president calls.]] It is man's right to protest, but let's all follow the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u15	Mr. President. Yesterday we received reports that a contract with Britain was reached on a continued business relationship after Bgreit. It's supposed to be a celebration, and I wish you the highest. Secretary of state to congratulate you on this success. I wondered, " How does the minister support this agreement with the council that is expected to take place? ' Of course, no one is surprised that we are seeking a contract, that was clear from the beginning. But the first tangible information we received was in a memo dated March 8th. and it described that negotiations were far along. Until then, there were only vague shaking hands, but yesterday we received results from the news reports. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is expected to consult with the Foreign Affairs on Major Foreign Affairs, and memos cannot be consulted. It would seem that this kind of deal would be considered a major foreign case, so I ask the highest. Minister: What will he do in the future to improve his course with regard to the foreign matter committee so that we are aware of what is going on? It is not enough that something is grossly available but that information needs to be available on an adequate scale so that the committee can be provided to the minister of foreign affairs as the Ministry to be carried out by the State Department of State Affairs. Furthermore, I would like to ask about the process. I guess now this deal is real. What happens now? When do we get to see the contract? In what way is the contract controlled by the result of Bgret? Then you may ask: " What has resulted from all the opportunities at its height? A minister spoke of the presence? If, as indicated in the news, the situation that remains the same today in this contract may not exist? Perhaps they never existed? Or is there any chance of doing something that no one has ever heard of?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much for the congratulations. A senator who was prominent in this inquiry. I think it's very important that we review it here at the council so that everyone knows what discussion has taken place about Baltrexit. I think it's very important. Then each individual can judge for himself whether there was not enough consultation here. If you don't try to get information at what you want. A foreign press committee, which usually happens most by getting notes in such a way. The committees can review the situation and make comments and inquiries, except for the number of cases held by officials, and certainly I have had the experience. The Foreign Affairs Committee to discuss these issues will be agggravated. A foreign - language committee, or individual committees, is to provide directions on how to work things here. I completely deny that this matter had not been sufficient consultations, and not just for why. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Council, are also involved in stakeholders and other departments. I drew attention to the fact that in the fall of 2017, a large report was published that everyone could see, it was open to everyone, about how the work was done in this case. I'm not going to wrangle. A senator. I just want this information to be clear to everyone and that each person can decide whether or not there has been enough consultation. In case of a moment. A senator has studied the news of this fine deal, and he sees that this is the nature of a matter under an temporary agreement, and we do not know whether it will take effect. But now we've covered the stage shots that can come up if an outing has to be done, and then we're going to a future deal. I'll go over the opportunity to communicate with the British in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u17	Mr. President. This might have been the answer you expected, that it somehow was sufficient to communicate, even though the discussion was only in yes, certainly some fists read to a foreign press committee, and then one shitty memo which was actually kind of a nice but too small and came too late. Besides, as indicated by the word, consultation means that both parties come up with a plan, that it is the council. There are a number of matters in the U.S. Parliament on the role of the State Department in such a discussion. There is little to be left of the opportunities that the minister of foreign affairs promotes with his friend Boris Johnson this year, which was discussed extensively in the cited report. I'd like to ask on one thing because it's an important point. In particular, the memo refers to customs in the case of agricultural products and similar products. We are now members of the International Business Agency and parties to the GATT deal. In 1 1. The GATT agreement makes it very clear that no quotas can be made of any kind except in three exceptional circumstances. I don't have time to review those cases. [[The president calls.]] What of the cases apply in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we've been meeting with what's happened. The Foreign Affairs Committee for the whole Baltrexit case over and over again, I am both a minister and, indeed, a government minister. The number of memos has been mailed to the dog. Foreign Affairs. A full report has been published as all of this is traced. To argue that there were insufficient consultations is completely absurd. This is no less than absurd. I got it. I got it. To learn what has been like in the past, a senator examines how the past has been conducted. In case of a moment. A senator wants to be worked in a way that is different from being informed. The Foreign Affairs Committee so that they can respond, and they can bring their comments and questions, etc., he must explain his case further in this regard. As for the opportunities, it's not just me and Ágústa' cousin Boris Johnson have talked about the opportunity. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I call attention to the fact that everyone it's seen, e.g. The current vice president of Reunion and Vice President has talked about the obvious opportunities involved if we negotiate with the British after they receive their freedom of business. [[The president calls.]] Then it is up to us to use these opportunities with the British in a future deal. And it would be fun, a respectable president, to review it in particular later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u19	A respectable president. The current rules allow four weeks of isolation when pets are moved into the country despite the fact that all vaccinations are available. It is both costly and difficult for the animals themselves. I understand Iceland's special status as an island, but other islands, e.g. New Zealand, which actually lives under a very similar situation, requires only about ten days of isolation. In September 2017, the then minister of the jury decided to make a new decision, but it became clear that the current rules were likely out - of - date and at the same time burdensome and strict. The Ministry assigned an impartial specialist to handle the situation. However, this national expert was to produce his findings in April 2018, and that time came and left without any objection to the risk assessment. In October 2018, the bow turned. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín's query to the highest level. Minister and inquired about the position of the risk assessment. Therefore, at the time, a minister responded that the report should be provided no later than at the end of 2018. In response to the Ministry's inquiry, Iceland's Dog Recreation Association last January. it was observed that the causes of the risk assessment were the lack of information and the absence of research. It will be quite remarkable that such findings do not exist, since isolation of the currently isolated species for a total of four weeks is likely to have been based on some laboratory data, not a result of the required isolation period, but a major burden for animal owners and animals themselves. Now that there is now more than two and a half months since the report was scheduled, I reiterate our inquiry to requisition and dog owners in general: When can we expect this risk assessment? Is the report already available? If not, I also wish to explain the significant delay in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u20	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It is true that this work has been reduced, and it has been a long way from being exemplary. I don't know how to explain it in any detail. You're right. A senator mentioned, we got a foreign specialist to handle this case, and this along with other aspects of the Ministry has led to a significant number of points that I am in no way excusing. That's what I've been asking. For one thing, on the basis of the discussion I've had here, I've tried to push after this, and the last information I've received on the subject is that we're expecting a report on April 1. That's the date I've been given and I'm bringing in here in answer to a good inquiry and a follow-up question at any time. Senator. The answer to this point is that work has been reduced. There are various reasons, and these are the best answers I can give: April 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u21	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for clear and good answers, and I'm happy that this risk assessment is coming soon, but I am adding that I am both looking forward to examining the findings of myself, but I also hope that work at the Ministry will begin with the possible changes in the legislation as soon as possible. The pet owners have waited a long time for this risk assessment, as a minister recognizes himself, and if the result is that the import rules have been too strict that I am aware of, we are keeping a very stressful stress that would be a violation of a moderate rule that would literally take on those who may be remembered and for no real reason. Can we not expect legal adjustments in this subject as a result of the risk assessment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u22	A respectable president. In fact, I won't really tell you if we can expect any adjustment to be made on the basis of the work we're waiting for. I assume we will review the results of this long analysis. In my mind, however, Iceland and I must strive to be careful to change the rules we have made about these matters. They are certainly very rich among us. We are, for example. with only about 20 animal diseases here on land in our livestock, but we're looking at 120 on the mainland. For all reasons, we should be careful, but that's not why I'm saying there's no change in any existing rule. It's a long road away. But the basis for the changes we're going to need to be considered and the possibility that we're waiting for must be the analysis that we're waiting for, and we've waited for, in my opinion, too long. I share my opinions with him. A senator on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u23	A respectable president. As I did on February 28th, I became a candidate for the council's work. Hysterism has a widespread impact in Icelandic society. There are direct effects on the up-to-date companies as well as on the number of companies around the country as their services, including ... betweenthecountsandtheports. Besides that, people and homes lose important income. Then individual rural areas and government funds will be affected by a great loss and may be able to make a total loss of $46.5 billion. The rural society where the effects are most believed to be the most important effects in the valleys is a faraway region. It is estimated that the rural fund and the seafront fund of the Far East will be combined with 260 billion. K. but the effects may be relatively higher in a number of smaller rural areas where tolerance for fluctuations is lower. The lack of such income means that the pay of the marine exit workers is reduced by 13%, and the population's income averages about 5% or a total of 1.2 billion. In that case, companies are estimated to be down by 600 million. In this situation, it is a great joy to know that a new fish gathering is in the Faeroe Islands, but during the past few weeks, it has been necessary to apply carbons for a long distance or in an international sea in Ireland. So I ask you, what is involved in our understanding of the Testimony Convention? Can we expect agreements with the Faeroes for the next few years? Is there any change from the last contract since 2018? Have any additional studies been conducted on the hairy powder this year beyond traditional levels? Finally: Are there any opportunities to react to loss of income due to hairy dysfunction, e.g. by increasing in labour warrants in other species or by applying raw materials in one way or another to the Icelandic jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u24	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Yes, it is true that this will have a significant impact on the rural, business, individuals, and families associated with the uptrospectives of the country, that is undisputed, as well as on farm funds and state funds. I would like to stress that there has never been a greater force in the pursuit of fur than at this time. A total of 100 days at sea, a Merit Research Institute has been working together on the search for deforestation. This is based on the increase in ocean-based funding for hairy searches for two years. Meeting with the Faeroe Islands is fine, and it asks if there is more to be expected. Yes, this is a pivotal meeting in that so far only a year's contract has been made, but now we've made a two - year agreement, making planning better and better. When asked if there is any chance to handle this in any way, with more means, etc. it needs to be drawn to someone else who has the bread of life from that source and transferred it from one to the next. I call for ideas why. The senator and others in that regard. There are sources of construction and processing to collect raw materials and other things, and I trust those who work in this article to do so fully. In recent years, they have shown that they do. Right away. A senator will discuss how to deal with the community in a manner that is closer to the local minister and minister, along with a living agency, lays upon the position it is developing. The Ministry I presided for these days has no room for me to intervene in a way that caused me to wake up. A senator is calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of Answers, hoping that, in time, an answer will become more evident as to what is involved in the Convention with the Revengeers. As far as I'm concerned, what now matters is mutual fishing clearances for the Icelanders in the Off-the-Plant Book and the Prefects of Icelandic History. I'd like to ask if there's any connection between this contract and the launching of the Entires to Iceland's ports. As we know, the movers often have part of their resources here but there is not yet any authority available from the Western government to do so today. What I meant by the increase of resources was whether somewhere there was room to add to the catch of certain fish stocks. [[The president calls.]] And then I'm absolutely convinced that the local minister will take care of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u26	A respectable president. What is included in this contract is comparable to that of the annual contracts made. It's about our fishing on the carbons and 1,300 tons of mackerel in a sophisticated jurisdiction. In turn, they have mutual permission to hunt the carbons and the seams in our jurisdiction. It has to do with the requirements. A senator asks about the sources of the Faeroys to the country. They may come into our countries from coal and herring, and stick, if necessary, on our part. In some respects, however, our hosts have special rules, and we do not demand that they change their laws on this matter. Our carbon sources are all over some 2 60,000 tons. We take only 70,000,800,000 tons in the international vision of so - called West of Ireland, and expect to take up a maximum of 150,000,150,000 tons, or so, in the long - range legal history. So it is vital that we do so, as well as our hosts, receive the basic resources that we give to them in this contract that totals some 5,600 tons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u27	As announced at the beginning of a meeting yesterday, a letter from Þórunn, the daughter of Egilsdóttir, 4 has been received. That's the north side. "that she resigns as the Fourth Vice President of the Generals. Accordingly, this meeting is now scheduled for vice president 4th. Borist has one rendition of Willum Þór Þórsson, 9th. We're out of here. Since there are no more claims than the votes, I shall declare the Court's Court's Court of Justice Willum Þórsson Thorthsson 4th of the General Assembly. I wish him a successful career, and I expect to benefit from cooperation with him on the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u28	V.E.G. President. We're starting a special discussion on the status of consumers here. Hv. Egilsdóttir This discussion had already been requested, and I would like to thank you very much. Minister, Þórdís K. Gylfadóttir Gordydottir, for bringing up this discussion here today. I'm going to follow this. A consumer's language group is broad, and it is important for consumers to take this discussion regularly, not only when it comes to that sort of case, is discussed in the form of the prime or the Senate resolution proposals, but also more important that we consider the situation of these languages, what the situation of the Icelandic consumers is, in fact, compared to the North countries. and in other international comparisons. This is stated in a report of the Supreme Court. Tour, Industrial, and Neon Secretary of the 146th legislature, including In recent decades consumer interests and consumer rights have become more important in Western legislation. Furthermore, while many positive things have been done here in Iceland, consumers and consumers are still a fragile group in Iceland. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that information on the legal rights of consumers is not readily available to the public. Laws and rules are to ensure the right of consumers, but to enable consumers to achieve their rights. The variety of commerce and size are obvious, and the difference between buying to form jeans at a store that proves to be defective when homes come or invest in shelters with secret faults or when a rent - rent agreement is to be settled when a renter has to seek the rights to the landlord. The council is now in trouble. A global and educational committee bill to legalize consumer decision-making committees aimed at ensuring consumers access to more efficient and professional treatments in solving conflicts with consumers and trusting in the solution to issues outside the courts. This is a directive's introduction which ensures that consumers can raise such issues with the traders for a ruling committee has not been able to settle matters. Today there are many groups that fall apart, so this case should be able to provide some legal basis for consumers and, at the same time, increase in justice. There is also a council resolution proposal for due rights, deposit notes and gift letters, and there is a need to update and coordinate the rules of action. Then you wonder how enlightened consumers are about their rights - we often talk about consumer awareness in that subject - and about where they can search and how accessible the service is. What kind of environment have we had in the field of justice and protection for consumers? It is information, instruction, laws, rules, and institutions. A consumer clinic plays an important legal role in the field of consumer rights. It operates in consumers' activities, promotes education to the public on consumers, and accepts the complaints and tips of consumers, as well as the financial and services charges. The consumer movement is a free organization, and it does much of its work to protect the interests of consumers and speak their language. The organization also serves as a service aid to consumers, which is a special service for all and that is, in part, funded by public funds. As a result of the scope and importance of the seminary, I would like to say, the consumer aid received 6,000 talks in 2016. A comprehensive surveillance of the party's behavior at the consumer market is primarily in the hands of the Neighbour Office and the SEC. The report I quoted, U.S. report. A secretary of consumers' business, is a fine foundation for the discussion we are taking today, and I have partly traced it, but I leave it for the highest level. The minister and the discussion below will be followed by further concerns about the institutions, the financial market status, the letter-of-a-cure, the duet, and the introductory details and the food markings. There are large questions left, whether consumers' language has just been given enough force here in Iceland and what is the highest. Ministers are planning to increase the importance of the seminary, what we can learn from the North countries to form in this area, and, as president of the Navigator Association, Breki Karlsson, recently called for a discussion on the price of food prices, whether the overall policy for the group was not completely lacking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u29	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of consumers is very happy to participate in this discussion. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson for taking the ball for luck. paritaprevir The mother of Þórunn's Egilsdóttir. Hv. A senator came mainly into four fields of consumers, and I will briefly review their status. First of all, the establishments of consumers were the top priority of consumer market management. It operates under controlled surveillance on the basis of a management board on the basis of business and market surveillance legislation, the safety and the public market security legislation and on the basis of a number of other consumer-sponsored specialties. The consumers can send complaints and tips to the National Institutes, as well as the Agency performs initiative surveillance where possible. There are several institutions to protect consumers in specific areas and, for example, the Food Organization and the SEC. A consumer clinic does not solve the exclusive conflict between consumers and sealers. Only courts and judges outside court can do that. A consumer clinic, on the other hand, has broad authority laws to stop and prevent unjustifying business practices against consumers and to ensure market safety. The decision of the Nite Owl can be made to an independent committee, the consumer appeal committee. Nursing the field of consumers aims to trust the safety and rights of consumers in business with companies. It is urgent that such monitoring is efficient and practical, to carefully consider priorities and to seek ways of improving and saving. A financial program of 2019,2023 contains goals and actions that are involved in the review of consumers' orders. That's the job at the Ministry. That opinion goes on and on. To the network and projects of the Nettorial Labs. Another major factor in the establishment of consumers is the availability of an exclusive-relevant conflict outside the courts. It is important that consumers have access to simple, efficient, and inexpensive ways in every area of business to resolve issues with an enterprise so that they do not have to go into costly judicial cases. At the beginning of March, I presented a bill for the legal judgment committees in the field of consumers, such as why. A senator came in. It is part of improving consumer resources to resolve problems with sellers because of the purchase of goods and services. If the bill is legal, free ruling committees can gain the recognition of Ministers in the filled quality requirements and deal with business issues. If matters don't fall under an approved committee, the budget of cash and services currently available can be handled. In the bill, the European consumer aid in Iceland, appointed by consumer organizations, is assigned to operate an electronic field to solve issues across the European Economic Area. It is in accordance with the policy of promoting consumers' organization here in Iceland by assigning them more tasks in the administration of the government. Second, as for consumers in financial markets, I have felt that the current situation in terms of the regulations of small loan companies is not the best choice. After a fine discussion at the General Assembly about a year ago, I appointed a team. Some who were assigned to make a comprehensive assessment of the work environment of small loan companies. In February of this year, the work force submitted to me reports and proposals to improve the working environment of small loan companies. The report is on the Department's Homepage, and I encourage senators to study it. The results of the category of work are that the illegal loans caused the most problems for consumers. I was happy to see how successful this work of the group was in looking at a variety of surfaces on this complex matter, for the work group was formed on a broad scale. In my mind, it is urgent to distinguish between illegal loans and other consumer loans when working on the rule of such loans. I believe that in this work the emphasis should be to impose on the borrowers of small loans that engage in unfair business practices. I agree with the staff that the loan operation is not required. It is important to discuss small loans does not cause competition and innovation in financial technology. I believe a permit could inhibit innovation and compromise competition and that improved consumer protection can easily be achieved with other more advanced instruments. The Ministry is now working on the results of the report. The aim is to recommend adjustments to the next legislation committee to be subject to the regulations of small loan companies. Only the rules of due rights, a gift letter and an introduction code. A report on consumers matters submitted to the 146th legislator Council discussed the procedure on due rights and gift letters. As a result, these cases have been considered in the Ministry. There's no legal due on bad products in the Norwegian due, and there's no exception in Iceland. For the most part, it is the store itself to decide in its business terms a gift letter policy, property cover, and due rights. As for the duration of the gift letter, a shorter expiration time than four years can be negotiated if clearly stated in the gift letter itself. [[The president calls.]] However, time of value must not be too short for a person's standing so that he can be considered an unfair contract. I'm going to put in particular the food markings in the following summary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u30	Mr. President. I thank the advisor for recording this very wide and important issue here, and as much as I thank the Minister for her contribution. Because, in particular, I have studied various legal decisions from the past few years that relate to this subject. I have been assisted by the Aggressive Association of the Houses, who have expertise in this field. The judges are from all levels of judgment, district, national rights and Supreme Court. It is a good thing to say that this small investigation, Mr. President, reveals that it is very difficult for those who want to attend their rights based on laws on the protection of consumers. True, a museum of judgment I had an opportunity to study a single judgment in which consumer rights regulations benefited the consumers. It was in the Supreme Court of 2016. In fact, eight years had passed since the collapse, and the first sentence there is from 2010 that would have changed much before the aftereffects of the crash had it gone differently. Of that, you can say if you had. The main principles involved are those included. A law on home loans to consumers, consumer loan laws and the natural contract laws, 36 G. I'm going to say that there is every reason to review the laws on consumer protection, and I'm going to allow myself to point out 33. A competitive song in a situation that could be used as an example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for bringing up this vital class and group of people who are often forgotten. Indeed, consumers are just another name for the public. At times, it seems that Icelandic politics is more than simply a matter of supporting producers to the sea and country as public interests are given boarded, i.e. The people who have to buy this product at a price that seems oddly acceptable. Sometimes you feel as if Icelandic consumers are almost a kind of hunter rather than people who can choose and reject, let alone use their power to shun valuable products. During the days, the Neythal Conference and the Public Security Association held on food prices. That's where we even came from. to 66% more expensive is running home in Iceland than in the European Union. This was shown in the business Gylfi Magnússon Michaelsson. He specifically mentioned the surprising fact that in Iceland a fish is more expensive than it is. correspondent in Hungary and Czech Republic, which are in the middle of Europe. In general, about 8% of fish are more expensive in this country than in the EU. What causes a major fishing nation in the world to enjoy such a price? Transport costs cannot be blamed, nor can customs be blamed. This striking example of products by all sun signs should be less expensive here than at least in the middle of Europe. The introduction of import products is so consistent with this by a protective policy to ensure that the Icelandic public does not receive the economic benefits of larger markets, but remains a fishing stock. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. The apocalyptic and the highest. Minister for the answers. I'm going to discuss mainly in this huge group of languages. Me and what. The saying of a group produced a synonym in August 2016, which was not paid at the council. I hope the Parliament's dissociative proposal is at the bottom of all the work that's in the Ministry, and I'm glad that a review of the regulations is being carried out. I'm gonna take this place for a little loan, and then I'm gonna talk about the meaning of food. Results from the Supreme Work force. One minister concluded that the small loans were illegal and that they were the biggest problem in consumers. It is said to sharpen that the law in each country applies, i.e. in which small loans are given cross-borderly, and that there is a reason to limit the payment of certain consumer loans at the specified time of 24 hours and to limit direct and aggressive communications markets. We know that. There is one company here that offers a small loan, i.e. Ecommerce, however registered in Denmark. It is a tremendous challenge to young people through text messages offering loans against small and simple costs, but they often forget to think it through. I'd like to throw it to the top. Minister and ask - because the analysis of candidates for resources from a credit agent is that young people are under it. These loan companies don't pay in there like financial institutions. - It's all too short of time. Food means something to you. There I would like to see that consumers can make an informed decision on consumption, on information that should be available. The environment of sodas is e.g. It is not too much to exaggerate; it is mostly sugar and water, but it is not what we live on. We know that climate is a major source of emissions. [[The president calls.]] We need to aim for food's carbon foot being marked in store. [[The president calls.]] It is a step in making a requirement for consumers to be clear, for example. Whether food has been transported by ship or by flight many miles from origin to shopping, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I refer to Danmerk on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u33	A respectable president. A consumer's status in Iceland is bad, preferably in a way that's hard to figure out the real position of consumers. The good work of the consumers organization is often helped to cope with the propaganda of trade and services, the Association of Employment and of all the enterprises responsible for this organization. The economic concept of a market's complete information comes to mind. Clearly, consumers lack serious access to information about products, services, and competition. Although consumers have many appeals in their lives, the people who control demand and to the limit are trying to influence an offer in the full - time ministry to limit public perspective. This could be compared to a chess board where black eyes can see the whole table and white just half of its men at once with one horse and two pawns of the opponent. It is important to have careful and detailed studies of consumer behavior in Iceland and to make good assessments of consumer status in this country compared with comparable studies in the North countries to whether there is a great difference in the situation between consumer interests in Iceland and North countries. It is in the power of a minister to promote such work now. The consumer languages are directly related to the sensitive future dress interview and are important to the availability of accurate and recent data in these areas so that the wording around consumers is carefully and precise and outlining the interests of consumers. In the government's policy declaration, consumers are mentioned only twice in narrowly limited cases, on the one hand, in terms of food meaning. [[The president calls.]] I hear they're calling a committee. However, the cost of consumers is to be reduced in the financial system. I put great pressure on my words: It would be interesting to know where the latter is going, Mr. President, and to refer again to its importance in connection with the current dress interview. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u34	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u35	A respectable president. It cannot be denied that consumers' situation in this country is very weak and may first be looked at the simple fact that consumers have always been ousted in discussions, both here and in government emphasis. In fact, it is the government's attitude toward consumers and consumers that is primarily responsible for the weakness of Icelandic consumers. Here, as mentioned earlier in this discussion, 66% more expensive to run homes than in the average European Union. It is true that there are also high wages here, but there are a number of factors that we could take to reduce this cost. It is not inevitable that all these high costs follow our pay points. Food prices are the most obvious sign. Food prices here are mainly due to high levels of protection, poor competition with domestic products. These studies have been repeated. Our neighboring countries are much higher in today's increasing age. The cost of the banking system is three times that of our neighboring countries. These three things, as screaming in our face, reflect the weak position of consumers but are still nowhere on paper of the present government for any improvement. The government has no interest in preventing high food prices, reducing the high cost of our coin, which, of course, is the basis for this high interest or taking the measures required to reduce the financial cost. It is an apathy of government, not just this government, but throughout the period, that causes consumers'situation to be as weak as it is, which makes it so expensive to live here as it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u36	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this discussion, which is essential and especially because of March 15th. was the International Day of consumers. In fact, the president of the United States, John F. Kennedy, first identified with the basic rights of consumers, can be seen on a Web site. It also says that the United Nations established eight minimum requirements for consumers: it is the right to obtain basic needs, right to security, right to information, right to select, right to listen, right to discharge, right to consumer instruction and right to sound environment. Thirty years ago, I was working at Brudze's store in Laura, 25, when a business search was made for money for the fruit of money. I don't remember how high the yokes were, but I think they were around 20 to 300%. At that time, the public was banned from the yoke of 2003-30%. Now it's a small loan to destroy the lives of young people financially, completely, and there seems to be no way to get a hold of them. It is completely incomprehensible to me, if a yoke could be prevented some 30 years ago, why can't you stop it? What's the matter with us at the council that we can't see to it that a small loan, this evil that makes very poor young people financially, is banned once and for all time? I'm just saying, it's time we don't do this right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for starting a discussion on Iceland's consumer position. It is a vital matter that affects all of us in a broad way. I also want to thank the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for her introductions into the discussion. As for the small loan, I'd like to thank the Minister for the information about them and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson discussed. But it's good that we're responding, and hopefully we'll be as soon as we can get some connection to these matters. We're asking if the consumers' business has gained enough weight in Iceland. My knowledge is the answer to that question, unfortunately, no. The report of consumer languages by the 146th Parliament includes travel, industrial and innovation ministers. It should be noted that information on the legal rights of consumers is not readily available to the public and that this is necessary to change. There are rules, but it can be difficult to approach and cooperate with them. To promote the public consumer's rights, laws and regulations regarding consumer protection need to be accessible and understandable. The procedures required by consumers to seek justice also need to be explained. Increased information demand by consumers, e.g. about the origin of products, carbon tracks, the production process of chemicals, and the use of drugs. Modern technology and innovation can enable producers to provide additional information to their customers in various ways that they want to meet them better. It is necessary to strengthen and trust the consumer awareness of Iceland through increased education and information. Retrospectives are being carried out on due courses, letters of gift and possession that are important to consumers. A commitment to such a review is being made to the General and Education Committee and the Ministry, as shown in the Minister's case. The work must speed up and make it attractive to the quality of selling goods and services to follow the guidelines that will be set for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank as other members of Parliament for this important discussion, which is exactly what follows the international consumer day. The government is to promote healthy competition for consumer markets, but I believe we need to change the definition of healthy competition. What do we have with healthy competition? I think we consumers, you see, are far more demanding than before, when the price was being looked more often, especially. We are now making increased demands to know the origin of our products, how they came into our hands, and how they were made. Were the remunerations and services of those involved in these products acceptable? What is the situation regarding carbon dioxide and the environment in general? Thus, the social responsibilities of an enterprise are growing. I'm happy that when professional life has increased into that discussion, I will show them that they see their interests in their community responsibility. I'd like to encourage us in this room, especially a respectable president and the highest. Minister, to continue working on the work that our professional life is going to come in very clear, and we're using all the tools and tools we have to promote greater social responsibility in companies. I'd also like to celebrate what was said in the grandest case. Minister for increased emphasis within the administration. I know that a minister will come in better after the food, but we have certainly seen the discussion on the importance of the fact that we know what our food is coming. We're in the best position to pick the goods. But in order to make a realistic assessment of the products available to us, we need to know all about them; where they come from and how they were made. I think we're on our way. As noted in many cases, there is a need to discuss these matters rather and place them on even higher levels in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u39	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. According to the government's view of consumers, even the same is true of consumers. In that consumers and competitives are not under the same department, as amazingly it may be. Another is that it is very difficult for consumers to determine whether or not they are being loaded. We have here a pair of devices, known as the Motive Room, and we're trying to find out if the prices are on guinea pigs in the mall and fines for it, but in other ways, we're not going to be aware of what it's going to be done. To continue, the country's highest prices are at the hands of the people who own the main chains of trade in Iceland. The prices are on hand, and the pension funds belong to all the stores. It's a perfect circle, absolutely perfect. It's not easy being an consumer in Iceland. Also, it is not easy to be an informed consumer in Iceland because we know very little about, as we have seen, how the products sold in Iceland are obtained. Reports from outside the world that women are being treated very badly, mostly women picking up vegetables and picking tea leaves and other items. In many cases, they are abused. They are natural innuendo, and they are all so that no matter how expensive they are, the northern part of the world where we live may receive less expensive products. No information is available on this subject, not a few. There is a need for effort to promote consumer languages in Iceland. I'm the highest. A minister to go to that assignment and to have full faith that she will work in it, because, as I have been trying to trace it here in those few words, these cases are in a total paralysis of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u40	Mr. President. Like others, I agree that these events need to be discussed in the expensive times we live in Iceland in so many areas. I believe, though, that if we consider what would be the most important thing for Iceland's consumers to get down or corrected, it's the interest. I met at the dawn of an Icelander living in Denmark. In our conversation, we found that people are borrowing mortgages in Denmark, which are loans close to 0%. That means that if e.g. Young people take mortgages of 20 million each year, and from 2 million each year, the loan will have dropped right away to 18 million, and after ten years the people have paid off, even though everything they borrowed will have been paid off. In the United States, the same people who took the same loan would look back on their loan, even if it paid 2 million a year, raise and maybe raise the first 103/4:15 years, and they would pay the same amount for less than 30 years because interest and price would be used to bring it up to 50 to 60 million, depending on the interest rate. For a number of years, we as well have pointed to certain solutions in this matter, which are not incredibly complex, e.g. to pick up a currency where interest is more common than in our currency. Those who oppose it always refer to it with some kind of ecstatic scourging that the dollar saved us from the collapse - which it may have put us in. That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u41	Mr. President. The debate on consumers has increased dramatically in recent years, and as common consumers, we have not always been aware of our rights in such a marketed consumer society in which we live. However, we have a measure of good laws that protect and inform consumers of their rights and market interests, such as this one has been called, financial companies, insurance companies, and a variety of trade and services, although no doubt you can do better, for example. to the creditors of housing and small loan companies, who always seem to find a way to borrow money from sensitive consumer groups. It is important that consumers are as conscious of their own responsibility in consumer markets and think of the consequences of their consumption, how it conforms to good morals in business, that they are concerned with the best interests and benefits of those who produce the goods or perform the ministry. We know the discussion of child labors that are common in many places, so we Westerners can buy for the cheapest goods and goods. Environmental factors, sustainability, animal travel and business honesty, all of these factors we need to consider as responsible consumers. We've introduced consumer legislation into a European model and here we have a very powerful consumer organization that's very good. We, however, need individuals, governments, and free associates to take our place seriously, that consumers are as best informed as to the origin and traceability of the product and are able to compare prices and quality. [[The president calls.]] All these and countless other aspects of life have been brought into existence, and it is vital that we set a good law on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u42	A respectable president. In my first speech, I discussed some of the challenges of consumers in Iceland and what changes are needed. Let's not stop there, and I'd like to discuss just why the country's companies are better protected in the current budget, and I would like to note that the requirement for their changes will not come from them but from the public, from strong consumer organizations, and hopefully from the government. Many consumers find it very difficult to seek their rights if they are involved in business violations. Even in some companies, it is difficult to contact someone inside who can provide information, regardless of the people who are authorized to negotiate some wealth. In theory, consumers can consult courts with their demands. However, it is very costly and complex and usually very long before such a conclusion is reached. Most people simply do not have the time or energy to do so. First, some of the decision - making committees serving in Iceland could be consulted. Some of them, however, just give opinions and others just include those companies who choose to submit to the decision - making committee. These decision - making committees also have a negative result that they can be drawn to courts and therefore further extended to a final outcome. All of this makes people feel hopeless rather than struggling when they are wronged in business. It will be, a respectable president, only corrected by the powerful proponents of consumers who can receive incomprehensible terms, queues in telephone lines, and random return regulations. Similarly, I would like to point out the conflict of interest as to the nature of the case, because consumer cases are in the same ministry and trade. If there are any conflicting interests, a respectable president, I would like to be directed to the highest level. Minister on the question of whether to fall on top, interests of consumers or companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u43	A respectable president. What's a yoke? Is it a yoke to make a warehouse worth 67% more in Reykjavík than in Helsinki? Is it normal that one kilo of carrots is 561% more expensive than other European cities or North countries? Is it normal that a certain type of cheese is 252% more expensive? That's more like 240%? Spaghetti 238% more expensive? Tatars 215% more expensive? Little wonder that it is impossible for those who have to live at the lowest wage and pension to eat in Iceland. As the executive director of IKEA so correctly pointed out, it is very strange that a roll costing 36 bucks. the manufacture of the product is sold at 100◯160 k. But what hit me the most is that it's possible, without anything being done, to sell a red sauce on top of a pizza at 600 bucks, a few grams of red sauce. What does this say about the environment in which the common people live? It's just out of the question, we have to start dealing with it, and you ask yourself, " Is everything morally gone? Isn't there any morality going on? Can a yoke on consumers be observed without supervision? Then I ask, " How can we prevent it if it isn't allowed? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u44	A respectable president. It is particularly appropriate that this particular discussion take place at this time and perhaps also in this place. Of course, consumers are closely related to the modern struggle. There are requirements for improving the standard of living in the country. Admittedly, then, questions arise about how to improve the interests of consumers in the country. Despite the frequent presentation of the discussion, remuneration is not the only remuneration available. The power of this reward is what really matters, and it can be improved. Icelandic earners have long accepted paying for the Icelandic mood, the smallest free currency in the world. There are also consequences, rapid declines and increases for which citizens of the country have to pay their pay while other parties are actually able to maintain their own security. If the dollar starts to weaken, a product that has been imported into the country will be more expensive for immigrants. The importer increases the price of the retail product, and the small room increases the cost to the consumer, i.e. self-employment agent. The trade and the importer thus keep their money stable, while the consumer or the employee has less than one hand in mind. Everyone in this process can increase the cost of walking - unless home cannot necessarily make more money. Homes cannot increase the amount of money they earn, insurance is just to take their gang swings, and throw them into their homes in the country. The crown is not a single law, as many would like to be. This is simply a result of political decision making, and it is time for us to make other decisions, make decisions for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u45	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for the discussion and the highest. Minister, Þórdís K. Gylfadóttir Gordydóttir, for her input and clear answers. Hv. At the same time, I thank the members of the council for their comments on the discussion. What is left of this discussion may first be the need to discuss these matters regularly at the council. It's a big group of paintings. It's complicated. It is complex and complex, as shown in the discussion. In the large context, I refer to the speech of the last speaker who spoke before me, hm. paritaprevir The Sigríður of María, the Egilsdóttir of Elil, who said that consumers are life stories. This may reveal the scope of this group of languages. V.E.G. A minister did a great deal of good over the institutions, and I think it is quite clear after the clear review. Minister to frame. It's a matter of being on duty with the law and order, and then perhaps especially information and instruction to consumers so that the setting and ordering work works. I think it's safe to say that we're the northern boat. The report that I referred to at the previous talk shows that following the opinion of the decision - making committees is much smaller than in the North countries, with a lot less success. [[The president calls.]] Finally, the highest. Mr President, I'd like to say that I think we have to shape an overall policy for the seminary, and I'm asking for the highest degree. Minister to go over it and answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u46	Mr. President. In this discussion, it is difficult to answer in two minutes everything that is available to you in every speech of the other members of Congress. However, just a few details arose. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson into the past that competition and consumer languages are not under the same department. However, the woman with the name and title also serves as a minister of competitive matters, making them all together. Although consumers have made a big difference between advisers, I feel that they are at home with competition because they are very compatible. In an environment where competition prevails, consumer protection is as strong as consumer awareness. I feel like we're just talking about two things, one of the consumers' protection and order and what we're doing to make things right. Our consumer sense, however, could be much better than it is. I think it's considerably worse than in the countries around us. But the common consumers here have a lot of responsibility, both from what they get out of competition, from whom they shop, when they complain, and from what kind of products they buy. Whether it comes from people's environment or from their resources, we do not have a great story to tell when it comes to it. I don't want generality, but so far it's more in word than on the table with me and the consumers. I hope it's changing, and there's a lot of opportunities for Icelandic software and Icelandic company. There are detailed rules on the law on meanings and other things. We need to do much better in that regard, and what really matters is that people can make informed decisions about what they are shopping for, where they come from, and how they were made. It was said that if I understood the problem, I would not want to reduce the financial cost. paritaprevir You're right, Mr. Þorsteinn Víglundsson, but that's the will. It's part of a white book proposal, and for the small loans, I'd like to mention that there's probably a way to get in touch with the wrong business practices. [[The president calls.]] The suggestions are discussed, and I encourage senators to take a good look at them. Still, no politician can ban or prevent bad decisions from happening. That's never gonna happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u47	V.E.G. President. I say on behalf of what. General and Education Committee for Committees, with a turn-in on bill to correct a law on registration and real estate assessment, No. 6/2001, with subsequent adjustments, on an assessment date. You can find it in the 1102, 212 Parliament. We're starting 2nd. it's about the case, and it's back from the last legislature. The Commission has discussed the matter and received to Särf Þór Gunnsteinsson from the Department of Transportation, the Björg Finnbogadóttir and Ingi Sveinsson Ágústsson from the National Registry of Iceland, the Þórður Halldórsdóttir from the Association of Industrial Science, Ingvar J. Rögnvaldsson and Jöturótirtir Jóhannsdóttir from the head of state taxation, Vigdís Häsler, and the Valgerður Ágústsdóttir from the Union of Iceland, Önundur Páll of Seurð Iceland and Jarþrúður Hanna Ragnarsson from Perjöróðsson. The committee received reviews from Percontinental Protection, State tax manager, Icelandic Company Union, Business Association, and Iceland's Penitentiary. The bill presents a detailed definition of Iceland's National Publications Index for access to data at the discretion of the evaluation of real estate. The changes we will discuss turn to a so-called revenue method and is thought to be the basis for the Agency to have sufficient information to assess the correct value of real estate using this method, i.e. Method of administration, as indicated by 2 mg. Twenty-seven. The law on registration and assessment of real estate, as well as ensuring that registration and consistent with the proposed performance of real estate evaluation. Iceland's National Registry has used three assessment methods to evaluate property, i.e. Marketing method, method and cost. All methods have the aim of determining the standardized real estates based on the use of the relevant property at any given time, as 1 mgr. Twenty-seven. law on registrations and real estate assessments, No. 6/2001. Depending on the method selected, data and information are available at each time and are most likely to provide an assessment status reflecting the market value of the property. The bill's report shows that by law No. 83/2008, the change in real estate law, the design of real estate assessments, and the same. Set up a so - called revenue method for the assessment of real estate, as 2 mg. Twenty-seven. The law. The committee found criticism as to the implementation of real-estate assessments using a sector method and that it would not be appropriate to establish the income method further by means of the bill. They came to the conclusion that the project had to be reviewed and that it was compatible with Article 27. law on registration and real estate evaluation. Twenty-seventh. The law establishes the principle that when making a real estate assessment, we should seek to find a well - established possession. Only when real-effective prices are unknown should be assessed according to the best available knowledge about the current value of similar real estates by integrated assessments of different factors, including revenues. Thus, there is an exception to the principle when it is based on factors other than clock guards. In addition, the decision to make a salary test does not make it possible for decisions to lead to a tax increase in employment life far beyond the price of change or to lead to the cross-interacting increase in real estate costs and rent prices. One report with the bill shows that the Ministry will look into these criticisms further. It says that real-estate evaluation should always reflect standard prices and that the Ministry does not consider it proper to postpone the contributions of the bill, provided it does not prevent the implementation of a real-estate assessment by income or other assessments to be reviewed later. And, of course, it was a question of whether this donation should be postponed or delayed by the Committee, but the committee considered it to be important to finish the matter, even though it does not preclude an overall review of these methods and laws. Therefore, the Commission takes the above to court, and the importance of continuing the Ministry to continue its examination and to consult with key stakeholders in this field. The bill presents a detailed definition of Iceland's National Publications Index for access to data at the discretion of the evaluation of real estate. In the treatment of the situation, there was a view that the sources of Iceland's national records might be too extensive. At the same time, the Committee noted that there was a discrepancies between the series and the bill code on saving data and access. Thus it is stated in a paper rather than in itself that data will be saved only to the tax manager. This report does not plan to allow Iceland's National Registry access to tax pay-of-band data other than contracts, but according to the guidelines, Iceland's National Registry would have access to data in general. Thus it does not appear to be a distinction between access to the overall database and the temporary access to contracts, such as those delivered on the basis of the Regulation on Free and Special Registry for rent or sale of property, No. 577/1989. In addition, the commission noted that data delivered to the head of the tax in these cases are subject to rich confidentiality, as well as to the state taxpayer. 117 st. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. The Commission stated that Iceland's National Registry has already access to tax returns to verify the information about property or their resources, as per the 3rd Act 3. Twenty-two. law on registration and real estate evaluation. Then there's the real estate estimate of various public taxes and taxes, such as real estate bills, as measured by the law on farm income, No. 4/1995, timestamps, as per clock rules, No. 138/2013, as well as hereditary taxation laws, no. 14/2004. The Commission therefore believes that the purpose of the bill is to ensure legal grounds for the access of data so that marketable real estates can be calculated and to ensure the correct pressures of public pay and other taxes. The report on the bill shows that Iceland's National Registry does not have sufficient information on the decision of evaluable real estate and that the change is essential for the Agency to have access to adequate information to assess the registration and implementation of real estate assessments. It also states that the lease sheet used for this purpose does not fully function as there is no legal obligation for contracts, and real estate owners are often reluctant to provide information on rent or rent income to the Agency. However, on the basis of Regulation No. 577/1989. It is suggested that Iceland's National Registry be granted access to information from tax returns and contracts obtained by the head of the state tax. The committee feels that there will be a measure of security and a moderate measure of access to such extensive data as this. The Commission will then agree on the rules and regulations of the bill, on the other hand, that there will be a further cut-off of data for the head of the state tax, and on the other hand, the need for closer access to Iceland's national records. In view of the latter point, the Commission considers that, in view of the basic rule of the average intervention of personal information, the Agency's access should be based on the agreements established by the head of the state taxpaying property in a worthwhile taxation activities as well as its national registry will allow access to other essential data and information that will be used to determine the evaluation of real estate. The Commission therefore feels that there is no reason other than that the text of the bill shall be brought in accordance with the recommendations given in the report as well as in its purpose, but it should only be useful to the assessment of real estate. The Commission therefore suggests that changes to the materials where the source will be defined in the above way and access to the requested data should only be used in making an assessment of real estate. It is true that, a respected president, the committee actually took a double pass on the subject and asked for some details in further discussions with stakeholders in order to make further peace with this factor. In the treatment of the situation, there was a view to whether the production and delivery of non-digitized data would be in terms of a special payment on Iceland's National Registry. The Commission believes that the access of Iceland's National Registry should be free of charge, especially in view of the purpose of making a real estate assessment linked to the collection of public pay. The access, therefore, is in normal terms with the tax system, which includes real estate evaluations as part of the pressures of public pay. According to a discussion of the case, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: 1st par. put it this way: Third speech. 3 mg Twenty-two. The law says: Iceland's national records have access to contracts that the head of the state taxpayer has been able to rent real estates to his credit service and to other necessary data and information that will be used to determine the value of real estate's valuation. I can do that. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the order of the centuries. Council: Director Páll Magnússon, Chairman of Willum Þór Þórsson, Physicist Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Yearnad, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Guðmundur and Þóra, Katla Þórhildardóttir Thordjörðurdursson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Árnadóttir, Ánar.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson's story, and he does not make any remarkable comments on this matter. I just want to hear from the senator, because I don't think that it's in the committee's opinion, at least not at all, how the European Union handled this case. Congress is well aware that the value of property in what way it is done is of immense importance to rural society. All changes there, one in advance would have thought that the rural society wanted to make some comments. I readily admit that I have not had time to read the comments of a Union member, but I would like to hear only - perhaps not necessarily a lot about the comments myself but more than whether a discussion has taken place. The report on how this affects the rural communities and whether they measure it as having a significant impact on the other main income stock of the rural community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! He's going to be a part of the community and a review. It is therefore quick to say that rural society was highly positive in this matter, especially in view of the changes presented here in a moderate way. The committee suggests that the primary access to relevant data is to ensure the correctness of the evaluation at a time. I think it's all that matters, that there's necessary data in a national file, and that access is that data is available to them so that as far as the information is right. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree on this. This was well illustrated in the case of those who gave a review of the case, and it appeared to the committee that the most difficult thing to apply this speculative method is to have all the data available to assess the right price so that it does not affect other factors, as mentioned in the committee, and I studied in my speech. However, rural communities were happy with the proposed change, and there were also other sources of information. But I would like to reiterate what is presented in the committee's opinion, and the committee stressed that the outside will continue with a review of this rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The Senator is likely aware that through the years I have had the opportunity to sit on that side of the table, i.e. which my rural society is, and I wonder each year about how real estate should be imposed in one of the larger rural areas of our country. There have often been debates over the accuracy of the assessment - let's just speak human language; i.e. how well this tax stock is used for rural society and how it can best serve the communities. One of the many things that have been raised during this discussion is that the estimates published each year, which are actually just tore into the report with the bill, do not appear very late in the year, often and often only after the financial programmes of the rural society are available. I'd like to hear some of it. A senator, whether or not there was a discussion on the committee, should he be tempted to use this trip to contribute his property income so that things will only come first, including earlier. to improve the development of rural society and ensure that the taxation is relative to the correct product.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson counter. Yes, I am fully aware of that. A member of the county government was well acquainted with these matters. This is a very important case group, and an important income stock that is important to certain societies, and then all planning will be very important. That wasn't particularly discussed. Whatever it is. A senator might say that because of the importance of planning, there is something that local societies should rather promote. We now know this just before we go to a national budget program that lays the foundation for financial law, and it is similar in the financial affairs of the rural communities. It is obvious that, after a budget is available, as important as the late one, is not necessarily a basis for effective planning. But the committee was not specifically discussed. This was emphasized by the committee, and it was very much discussed with the whole issue to provide an overall review. When we discuss these methods of assessment, all the information is important. I think if you can trust the basis for the best of the information, if the assessment nears reality, you can move it closer in time. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u52	Mr. President. We're dealing with a bill to legalize the law of registration and of real estate assessments, with subsequent changes, a decision to make an assessment. I'd like to come into this thing and discuss what the bill is most about. Like what? An executive reviewer has come to be critical of how real - estate values have been conducted, including: with this process of revenue, and it is not expected to be established by the bill as here. It says that the view was that when a real-estate assessment was determined, a search should be made for something of value. It would be only when the price of assessment was not known that it would be possible to know the course of comparable possessions, which would include integrated assessments of many factors, including Taken. In fact, this would be an exception to the rule that is based on factors other than the traditional clock guards. It is said that the decision to make a salary test could lead to an increase in taxes for employment life beyond the price of change and that this could lead to a cross-interacting increase in real estate costs and rent prices. It also says that it should reflect a standard value. The Ministry did not consider it convenient to postpone the case. About 1st par. says, with permission of the president: In the annual reevaluation of real estate assessments, there is constant effort to improve the methodology of real estate evaluation. Three methods of assessment are considered to be the preferred method, the marketing method, the measures and the market-adjusted cost. Although the methods used differ, contracts are viewed in all the way in order to get clues as to price prices. This method is used by contracts and contracts to specifically evaluate trade, office and employment, and easy industrial branches. However, the marketing method takes complete terms of contracts. The evidence is that in 2009 a new methodology was adopted, i.e. EU/1/09/531/001 Then comes another part of what's about Iceland's National Registry. It has kept prices for as long as it depends on the required contracts of real estate. It says that when real - estate evaluations were calculated annually, the standard prices of property have changed from rhythm to rhythm as a result of the formation of a clump, especially in the assessment of employment. Hence, the method was set up and determined. This issue has to do with the implementation and access of Iceland's National Relations. There is always a difference of opinion about how to be between the institutions of state, about the kind of information involved, I don't talk about in the new protection laws. We need to wonder at all times how far we go at the same time, and we rightly feel that some institutions have more access than others do. The report included a discrepancies referring to the saving of data and access of data, and it did not require that the data be saved only to the head of the tax. It was not expected that national records would be accessed through tax returns or contracts. But it says that according to the arrangement, a national record would be provided with access to the data in general, so that the entire library would not be distinguished from any possible contracts. National records have access to tax returns to verify the real estate information or to be able to obtain it if necessary, in order to keep track of the registry. The committee concluded to ensure that the legal ground could be accessed to data so that it could be attacked to calculate the market of real estates and at the same time that the application would be righteous, both public and other taxes. The report shows that the change, i.e. that a national file has access to all information in order to determine the evaluable real estate, is essential for its having relevant information in accordance with the implementation. It also states that the lease on which it is based does not serve. It is not obliged to report contracts. Some owners have been reluctant to provide information on rent or rent income, although most people may be inclined to do so as they should. As I said, national protection laws are important, and the Committee concludes to be safe and moderate when access is granted, as it were, to save data to the governor and to keep access to national records. The Commission concludes on the agreements that the head of the state tax has handled on property, and particularly on the merit of a tax service, that national record will be granted access to the data that will be used to determine the evaluation of real estate and will make a change in it. One last for a price. It is said that the point of view was whether it should be assumed that if the work and delivery of the data that I did not get into electronic form, the National Accounting will be paid for it. The committee believes it should be free of charge. I agree with that. There's really no need to pay for information between the two countries that are going to help with the processing process. It would be to move from one pocket to another that should be unnecessary. I'd like to, considering that we're dealing with real estate values or real estate taxes, taking advantage of this opportunity and discussing real estate taxes. As it turned out in reverse by the dog. Ólafur The unsolve of Þór Gunnarsson turns to very much or largely the rural communities. If we look back a little, it doesn't have to go further than 2017, real estate and property taxes have gone up tremendously. On December 31, a new real - estate evaluation was held, a record published by the National Record of Last Year. At that time, the combined real - estate assessment of apartments in the country increased by 15.5%. That is nearly 5,000 billion, which is said to be twice the total production of the country in the preceding year. This is a tremendous increase that comes first and last to those possessing it. In terms of a better place of property, it is often more often and often because of the rise in real estate, but it did not necessarily have more to do with the hands, i.e. People's budget did not increase, though, because it was mainly a technical rise and, of course, higher charges. In effect, people had less than one hand if something was followed by such a dramatic rise. The largest increases at that time were in the capital area. Real prices increased, but those who were not on the pants selling did not get anything in their pocket. The highest increases were found in Seltiannes, 18.8%, and on Aranesp, at least in Garville, 13.7%. So in 2018, because of 2017, it was inhabited. Húsavík had an increase of 42.2%. It's no small thing when you think of how much your real estate will go up. Some community saw space to reduce half the cost, not the property taxes. It was promised for the last election of a lot of people that property taxes would be reduced. At my house, sewer costs were dropped a little bit, but property taxes weren't, because it would have affected the balance fund. So many and so many were promises. As we know, in 2017 there was a variable increase, depending on where it was within the capital area. There was a 22% difference, and it was just a two-year change. I think it's worth considering what's underneath at any given time. I'm not sure that all of our communities have had the opportunity to reduce what was discussed. The tents are made up of many things. On June 1, last year's real estate evaluation increased by less than 13%, and then, because I mentioned the above figure in 2017, 5,000 billion, it will increase to 8,000, to 8,364 billion. It's not a petty raise, less than 3.5 billion. Then, however, the situation changed, and Smokejanes was underneath. The increase was combined with an increase of less than 13%, but the real - estate assessment of Smokejanes, as it did in Húsavík the preceding year, increased by 41%. It is very important to be maintained that, outside the capital area, only a few sales are needed to tear down such things substantially, which does not necessarily reflect the market value of public possessions. In 2018 it was 20% outside the capital area, 15% across the country, and 12.5% in the capital area. Their real estate was the most intense on the Southnes, really on all the Southnes, and it has a definite explanation. But just because I mentioned that there was an increase between areas, the mean increase in the capital area in the previous 10.3% was increased on the Ásbek, which has been spoken by 98%. It's been a shock to someone who had to pay real estate bills there. Although rural communities have seen an opportunity to reduce something, this is no small thing. In Sanding, it was about 39, in a rural area of Smokeynes about 35, etc., all along the same line. So there is much to consider. Of course, there are many factors that cause real - estate prices to rise. National records will keep an out - of - doors, where you can look at the hiccups of real estate and you can see houses, employment houses, summer houses, etc. The country can be analysed by national parts or through assessments and how real-estate assessments are divided, and it can also be seen in certain areas from available contracts or contracts. However, it is said that most properties are reevaluated by certain economists surveyed annually, based primarily on contracts, but, as noted, employment houses are involved in that revenue. It would be interesting to find a summary of the country's assessment change on Iceland's national and various methods used, these are different formulas used for the current year and many other data. From June 15 onwards, the package leaflet can be accessed on the property in Iceland. You can see it for yourself when you look at it from year to year, after campaign campaigns that called for a decrease in real estate tax, to raise the charges. There are many other subs, to form sewer costs, garbage costs, etc. When one is reduced and another rises, the result is not necessarily in favor of the consumer. People in general may not predict much disunition of their real estate accounts. I've done so from time to time, but it was mostly to monitor the waste management costs, because we had a system that's well-controlled and was to return us cheaper fees that it hasn't, in fact, paid us. But it's another matter, it takes time to introduce things and all that. At least it's something that's important to real estate owners. When people aren't thinking about selling, they want to live in their possessions, but these are the last two, three years, pretty vicious, these are tremendous increases that will reduce the income of people's income. There are many things to think about. Although what is under such circumstances may be just part of it, I feel that these speculations are far too small to discuss. Do we not forget that because those who have their assets have to pay more and who will? The owner or tenant in this case. There's an interaction in it. A respectable president. I see that the committee has discovered this change, both of the fees I am happy with, and of limiting the access to what the Agency needs to do in order to carry out its work. In itself, I support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u53	A respectable president. I'm going to talk to you about the bill we're discussing here. First, I would like to point out the change that we are facing. A pan-European and educational committee suggests that the sources of communication will be more clearly defined. As already noted, this is a sign of the times. We are dealing with a new environment regarding the personal information considered to be available, and it is important that we have a clear record of exactly what can be communicated for legitimate purposes. In that respect, the General and Education Committee here is responding to the protection laws that we handled less than a year ago. There is one thing that I would like to consider that may not be related to the outcome of this case but is a factor that often arises when we discuss issues that involve different institutions and agencies. The way the Council's logs are organized and how roles are divided may at times be mixed up in the way we handle matters. One clear example could be that, for example. that we have to take into account in particular who is responsible for saving data and that we at the council need to talk about the information systems of two institutions that communicate in the community, when the government is to have just a coordinated information system and some overall policy on how sensitive information that is relevant to society's infrastructure is transmitted between parties. If it's Pirati sitting in the President's chair, maybe it's time to mention the ideas that came out of that camp for the State Data Commissioner, if I recall correctly, Mr. President. No? In any case, a Smári Mccarthy has had ideas about central people who deal with the information systems and technology development of the Commission and its institutions. I think there's good reason to bring it up and start doing this, so we're not going to be found out by an institution. When it comes to changing projects, let us never consider this division to be a piece of stone. If we take the group we're discussing here that has to do with the registration of real estates, then there's an all-explanatory question of how it is listed as an institution in our neighboring countries. For example, Danir has a joint agency that is holding out national information, which parallels Iceland's National Research, but this institution also has the role of a real estate record that is stored amongst us within the Iceland National Book. If the channels between institutions are properly installed and successful, this should not be of any importance in itself. It does not matter where the projects are carried out if they are performed in a similar way. It seems, however, that when litigators fall apart, it matters. Therefore, I believe it is important that we work on the coordination of the systems of society. Another manifestation of this is the idea that always comes up when one institution considers it to be doing something for others, i.e. that agencies start paying each other a price for something that is appropriate at the Council decides that the public should simply be done. In general, the provision of information free sharing should be the focus of clearance, but a sharing between the state stocks should be so consistent that this conversation should not be necessary, but it happens on a regular basis. They need to work at a certain amount of cool change in institutions. It may be necessary to discuss within a strategy whether the institutions are too sensitive, whether any part of their status values can grow in the eyes of new projects, and whether there is something to deal with when it comes to the long-term development programmes of the strains. This bill is about a national record being able to fully carry out its role, the task of holding a lease. However, although this bill was approved, it is expected that the Agency will play an adequate role, it was observed to the Commission that there are expected to be over 1,000 worth tax tax numbers behind the work being done here, some more contracts expected because there may be many contracts behind each merit tax number. Only a small portion of the lease available and can be used to assess rent prices in the country. It would be possible to spend a few words, as we did on the committee, discussing whether it was even a step back on the obligation to cancel contracts. Much of the contracts in this country are not wanted. In this way, whether we were based on the data available at a national file and thought that it was insufficient or added to the information being prepared by the governor, you would never give the overall vision that could be possible, to create a country, an overall view that I feel is more familiar with in a country where all taxes are electronic, and it takes one to two minutes for individuals to complete. At the same time, tradeports from the governor's taxpayer to the national records of the small portion of contracts reported to the United States can be calculated from among the tenures of the country. I think there's good reason for the Ministry to consider whether this can be done more effectively in the future and then we can get a clearer perspective. I also began to feel that the Commission could start developing a new procedure when it comes to projects that involve more than one department. It was obviously something, I'm not gonna say a different view, but it wasn't quite a common understanding of national records and head of state taxation on the project proposed on the bill when it came to the Senate payment. But by taking care of the case within the committee and, in fact, letting a national file just talk to the governor of the tax, a landing was achieved that reflected in the committee's opinion. Perhaps this would have been possible in earlier stages in councils so that until this point, the Generalis would form a completely developed case. This is so as to make a small, simple bill so that this extra crisis at the Committee's Management Board would not harm anything, but you can imagine that in larger matters, especially matters involving more than two agencies, this could certainly be a chain. We need to find a better beat in the fact that the Ministry, without telling other advisers how to do things, has some kind of impact on changing jobs between recruitment practices. Then I think it's over now. These were the few points I wanted to come to. Then it's good to keep it in place, like cot. The director of the committee's opinion made this case a part of a larger discussion. As noted in the reviews of both the European Union and the Business Association, the methodology for making real estate assessments is the modeling process. This is, in fact, only tools are being placed in place, but we have an expected incomplete larger discussion of what it is that we want to use to determine the price of assessment, which information should be weighed into it, and how it should affect the farm society's income populations in the first place, the pressures on employment life in the second and third, real estate expenditures in the general population. It wasn't our job to move it on this bill, but I expect that conversation will take place in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u54	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the registration law and evaluate real estate. I will not extend the discussion, but I will agree with the views presented by several members of the council. The overall review of registration laws and real estate assessments has been considered slightly. I think it is very important that as Congress and legislators, we bring it up and call attention not only to ourselves and the community but also to our communities that we exist in that conversation. We are ready to have a conversation about how this will be done. Like what? It has been reported that there are a number of important factors. Realties, as we know them in the traditional sense, are made up of many factors, such as whales. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier. Then, in everyday speech, it is called property taxation, which, in some cases, says less than half the story but perhaps more than in others. In this way, expenses such as water tax or water tax, sewer tax, and other tax payings, as well as other such, are needed, and they need to be taken at once in total context. My primary purpose in speaking is to draw attention to this. This will come into more and more of the discussion, whether or not to let the possession of real estate become the opposite of a square meter, i.e. ... infood. More and more will be included in the discussion whether real estate spending should become more part of the real estate tax and should have more impact on the remuneration and, in some case, perhaps less. It has been observed in the discussion that, for example, there is no need to be a problem. high prices for land, rural areas, at times, are completely out of the map at what is then paid or sold on the same country. I'm not gonna have any more of those words, Madam President. I wanted to draw attention to this point, to the fact that the council is interested in having a complete law on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u55	A respectable president. I bring a review of a bill to legalize the law on private treatments and criminal treatment laws, with subsequent changes. It's a bill written at the Ministry of Justice. This suggests making changes in terms of the rights of those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language to enjoy the ministry of a sign - language job. In this case, it is stated that the state's budget pays the cost of working for a sign - language girl in the case that a civil - language reporter will rely on Icelandic Sign Language for communication as well as for the work of professionals who will help those who are not fully able to communicate in spoken language or Icelandic Sign Language with reporting, but in accordance with current law, the person who calls for such a person who pays the cost. Then the bill will also respond to the European Court of Human Rights from December 6, 2007, in the case of Westlund Rós Westlund against Iceland and suggest that it be permitted to speak orally when it is appealed to private matters, but evidence will not be denied. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Þorvaldur the Codition of the National Social Heiðar of Justice, Heiðdís Dögg Eiríksdóttir of the Deaf, along with the lawyer of the Society, Karólína Finnbjörnsdóttir, Kristín Lena Þorvaldsdóttir from the National Center of Deaf and Hearing and Rannveig Sverrisdóttir, and Gauti Kristmannsson of the University of Iceland. The committee received a review from the Court, which made no comment on the subject of the bill. The bill suggests three changes. First, if a government fund pays fees and other expenses for the use of sign language formulas in private matters, in the case of communication by a reporter in Icelandic Sign Language. The bill then suggests that the state funds also pay expenses from professionals who help those who are unable to communicate fully in spoken language or in Icelandic Sign Language. Secondly, changes in criminal records and police reporting laws are proposed. These changes are in accordance with the changes proposed in the handling of private matters on the jobs of sign and skills and are aimed at ensuring that the two laws on this subject are comparable and consistent with the changing. Third, changes are proposed to assume that in the case of failure to protect Iceland from national rights or Iceland's Supreme Court, there will be a case, despite the oral passage. On the other hand, the irrefutable principle holds true that such a case will usually be completed without oral transportation. Among the delegates, it was said that for those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language in judicial matters, the bill will provide justice. However, the Committee's attention was called on to consider the payment for sign - language girls in the relationship between justice officers and defenders to their clients, i.e. not to be guaranteed for sign - language girls because of communication with judicial procedures. According to a bill report, the Justice Department's position is that this matter is different from what the bill's subject suggests and needs further attention. The committee emphasizes that it is part of a fair trial that a person can prepare for judicial procedures and therefore feels that the rights of those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language will be ensured in the preparation of judicial cases. The Commission, however, agrees with the Ministry's view that the matter is different from what is being discussed here but points it to the Ministry of Justice to take these matters into consideration for further consideration. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that a general review of the testing and legalization procedures for the judges and translators was required. As a result of such a review, it would be preferable to review whether sign - language girls should also be tired to gain the right to interpret before the court and thereby include a legal court order. In this discussion, the committee was advised that according to Article 8. Regulations for testing and legislation for judges and document translators, No. A total of 893/ 2001 are allowed to give a legalization as a legal formula for the deaf. However, this law is not supported by the law of judges and translators, No. 148/2000. It is then shown by the bill that sign - language girls are referring to those who have completed at least a BA test in a sign language girl. In context of this, the committee noted that during her third year of study, the so - called community girl was taught, but no court interpretation required much more experience. The committee has suggested that legislation in this field will be reconsidered as well as courses and tests. In addition, the committee considers whether a sign - language girl must be placed in order to obtain the right to interpret to the court, while ensuring professional services in the judicial system must be established as well as legal security in handling the cases of judicial action. Hence, the Commission directed to the Ministry of Justice to consider these points further as well as to consider the issues of whether the above regulations are legal. The committee proposes that the bill will be passed on to the same level. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the writings of this magazine, Páll Magnússon, president and executive, Birgitttling Birgir of the Ármannsson, Gísli Garðarsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Valdimarsson, Árnadóttir Þóra, Valgerður Sveinsdóttir, Willum Þórsson, and Thorhirdur Ævarsdóttir Avjörnótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to come into this thing for a minute. First, I recall that I was sitting here as an assistant in 2004 when that happened. paritaprevir Sigurlín Margrét Sigurðardóttir moved a bill about Icelandic Sign Language, in fact, a second time when I was with many other members of the council. To me, it was a great privilege to experience sitting with a senator who uses sign language as his own language. That, of course, is a very different reality from the rest of us. We have, for example, experienced in the past that when it comes to events in people's homes or about assistance they need, the interpretation service has not been a treasure service. The commission states that a government fund will pay fees and other expenses for a sign - language job girl in private, where the person is counting on sign language for communication. I don't know if I agree fully with the approach presented in the bill itself and in the findings of the General and Education Committee. At any rate, it is not addressed, and it is said to be an independent matter when preparing people for a report or a hearing or something like that. I can't understand there's a separate case. It would be fine if someone spoke up and tore up the reasons for this thinking on another matter because part of going into court or other such things and getting help there is for you to prepare. So I don't quite understand why that came to a conclusion, i.e. keeping it apart, feeling it's a little strange. But I find things interesting here. There is a new paragraph that is added to Article 10. that discuss working as a sign - language girl. They're not mentioned in our judicial legislation. That may be one of the things that was going to be corrected because, while the bill I mentioned earlier and was submitted, a tape worm was put out on the various laws. Perhaps something has happened beyond July 7, 2011, when the law became reality long after a bill on the subject was first submitted. It was offered quite a bit in the past. Hv. paritaprevir Svavar Gestsson did the same back then. As previously said, there was trouble. paritaprevir Sigurlín Margrét Sigurðardóttir until 2004, when I was allowed to join, and also once before that time. It is then a question of whether the protocol was not understood, i.e. how extensive the matter would have to be. In any case, this is an experiment to try to fix what needs to be done and what needs to be done, which is a very good matter. I think it's a good thing to see here that sign - language girls are not a legitimate profession. Of course, it is proper for us to take it seriously when it comes to judicial matters. But these people go to special college and they need a BA test, of course, to be considered good. There's a little talk about sign - language girls not judging, which is quite correct. The number of people who have learned sign language that I just don't know is interesting to find out, because I think we need to increase the number of people they learn. Of course, it does matter when discussing specialization that it is often a legal language in the case of sign - language girls, who are not necessarily taught in basic school. It would certainly be worth examining in their backyard if there is a reason to do so. However, here is also the nature of the case, according to the United Nations Convention on Poor People, validated on September 23, 2016, where the disabled have access to the legal system to the level of others. The treatment should therefore improve in their situation. Another factor mentioned in the hearing of a hearing of a court hearing is the police report. There is a change made by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Westlund Rós Westlund. Had she not been considered righteous with a trial? The following changes are intended to meet them. The Society of Deaf People and the Communication Center for Deaf and Deaf Hearing Imposses were consulted. They noted that sign - language payments should be considered in the dealings of justice keepers and in the defense of their clients. That's what I quoted earlier when I said that I don't think that's another matter. I don't feel that there are two things I can tell you. If we here speak and speak, sometimes excessively, would not have had the opportunity to prepare normally, we were at a disadvantage. I think this law is very special because it's a great requisite that's being done on the bill. But I don't feel like going all the way. I can't see this is working. The article referred to the sign - language study, whether it is possible to add it in terms of what is under it. I thought it would be good to see the committee's opinion that there will be a review of the legislation in this field in both the review of studies and tests and other such, and whether those who interpret in the court need some specific rights, e.g. For the subject under which it belongs. In other words, sign - language girls are working everywhere with their clients, and in many places the subject is spoken professionally. However, this may be considered quite different, such as justice, and so forth. But I would have liked to see that it had been under here, hoping that someone who will talk here could explain why it did not become the result, because at the time when the law was placed in 2011, there was a large crowd of deaf and deaf people who rejoiced particularly that their case had become legal. In view of the degree of justice it was and having access to interpreters in various difficult situations in people's lives, I don't think that we often realize things from A to B or A to C or something. I feel like here is a missing segment of the chain so that it can work fully. How Should People Prepare? Should it be necessary to buy some other service from some particular greeting that it is assigned to some special service, which can result in such an outcome if a person becomes ill or something, he cannot receive a service unless he may have a large number of children because he has some greeting to live with? The rights of the deaf and the deaf in this case took an enormous amount of time. I don't think the bandworm would have been under here otherwise, but it was laid out by someone who lived under the circumstances of having to take advantage of this service. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I just wanted to come into this, because I don't think it's aggressor of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u57	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to correct the change in civil handling laws and to sign - language girls in the justice system. I think this is a huge justice issue for the group involved here. Eight years have passed since Icelandic Sign Language Act and Icelandic Sign Language were passed in 2011. Good things happen slowly and carefully, I bet you can say in this case, it's eight years now. By their sentences the government took a great step in improving Icelandic Sign Language, but the laws alone do not work to change and improve the status of Icelandic Sign Language, but rather they call the laws on the focus change in many parts of society, as this bill actually does. The bill suggests that the state fund pays pay fees and other costs for civil Sign Language and that government funds also pay expenses to professionals who are unable to fully communicate in spoken language or in Icelandic Sign Language. Such changes are proposed to the criminal hearings and police reporting laws. These changes are in accordance with the changes proposed in civil handling laws for jobs of sign and skills and are aimed at ensuring that the two laws on this subject are comparable. Changes are also suggested that, despite the oral passage, in the case of failure to defend Iceland's National Rights or National Supreme Court, changes are expected to be made. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir As she spoke of the failure of the bill, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's bellows allowing this group to rely on a sign - language girl earlier in the justice system in preparation for matters. I think it's really important. I don't know why that end was left out. I'm a little surprised that this wasn't done together, and actually it surprised me. However, the report by the Ministry of Justice says that it is different, and a new bill may need to be addressed. I don't know why not do it together, because I think it's just as important, if not even more important, to deal with it at earlier points. Speaking of a sign - language girl, this is a very sensitive and small group involved in this case, but perhaps the foundations of this case need to be strengthened. We are talking about the fact that Icelandic Sign Language was actually banned until 1980, even though it may not have been applied. But it was based on the 1920's development of speech policy in the deaf and peaked after 1944 when all the signals and finger code were banned in child training, but fortunately we have gained the wide vision that we understand that Icelandic children and their candidates need to learn this from infancy. How important it is that this is done by early intervention! This group is said to be about 300 people, and then there are naturally all candidates and schools and those that multiply that number. We have also noted that sign language can be extremely important for groups who even lose the ability to speak or lose hearing, that those who lose hearing at some stage in their lifetime may still be able to communicate by means of sign language. There are groups of people who lose their ability to speak. I mention, for example. MEND patients or getting hit for some other reason. It would be very good to be able to look in sign language. I think it'll always be in the future, even if technology comes forward. Two Deaf children are said to be born each year, but their situation can then be corrected or improved by a male - Deaf transplant performed for years in Sweden. In fact, it has been done here on land too. But not all children are helped by this, or by all who are deaf, but they are important. Yet, sign language needs support. The symbolic language is spoken by people around the world. It is often said that the sign language is spontaneous, that someone sat down and decided to sign signed language. But it's not. In fact, the symbolic language is self - discipline, for all of us speak from birth in a sense of sign language in some sense in that word, and it is so adapted to the individual needs. Each case has its own uniqueness, like the world's tongues. The Icelandic Sign Language is one of the traditional minority languages in this country, but it is legal as Icelandic and some 300 people consider it to be their native language. That is why it is of utmost importance that we live up to it in everything, both in service and in rights, that this group's rights are underlined. If we talk about the laws that exist about the state of the Icelandic language, we'll see in paragraph 8. The law is that this is the official case of this group. ▪ Italian is the case of the Allegis, Courts, Governments, state and community, schools at all schools, and other institutions, who carry out and render public service. That is why this bill is submitted eight years later, directly thereafter. But eight years, so I hope that another eight years doesn't go by before the bill comes up that says people have a right to sign - language girl sooner in the judiciary system. In the 9th. The same law says, by permission of the president: ▪ Government interpretation and sign - language girls. The right to interpret and the duties of the courts to seek help from interpreters, and a sign - language girl is under the law on the treatment of private matters and on the treatment of criminal matters. The government should seek to ensure that anyone who does not understand the Icelandic language can obtain a solution and take into account the relevant material of documents and documents. So I think this is very important for this group, and we need to look at both our environment and our legislation in this regard, to ensure these rights in our legal system, especially in public institutions at all levels, because it is long accepted as an Icelandic language. But most of the time, I came up here to sign the bill and I hope the whole thing will work out, hoping that the rest will be as soon as possible. Finally, though, I would like to say that sign language is important, and it is very difficult to speak sign language.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u58	President. The issue we discuss here is one of the issues that may not be important and may not get enough attention in the face of such issues, but it is a huge issue for those involved. For someone like me, who can communicate and understand without interpretation, and I have to pick up and follow up in Icelandic government, it may be difficult to understand that I can't. And when it turns to what's supposed to be our basic rights and that is, i.e. Getting our rights before the court is of utmost importance that, of course, all of us have the privilege of being able to interpret. It's really true, no matter what your mother tongue is. In this case, we are referring to Icelandic Sign Language, which is defined as a native language and is equally correct according to the laws given at the Great General Assembly. So it's a little special that we're putting it together a long time later to make Icelandic Sign Language a little more legal when it comes to legalizing it as a form of expression in human relations and it is forbidden to discriminate people according to whether it uses it. This is not open to big interpretations, sign language and other interpretations; it is simply forbidden to discriminate people according to whether they use them. Therefore, how happy we are that this bill is due to its involvement in these fundamental rights! One thing is to enjoy the interpretation, another to pay for it. It is good that the Icelandic government intends to pay the expenses of a sign - language girl, called mainly in the treatment of personal matters, as in the treatment of criminal cases. In no way can it be reasonable for people who rely on Icelandic Sign Language when dealing with governments to pay for interpretations themselves. If so, we will not have the law to discriminate people, depending on whether or not they use them. I wouldn't need my case making special payments for interpretation. Therefore, it would be highly unnatural for the person or person in need of a donation. Similarly, the degree of legal reform has been considered to allow private exposure to the National Court and Iceland's Supreme Court, despite the lack of security. It is similar with reviews for court records, changes in criminal treatment laws, police records, and just about what I mentioned earlier. It is also good to remember that this is the case with the European Court of Human Rights and to legalize the European Court of Human Rights, which is something we must do elsewhere. Now this bill may be spoken orally, once this bill is turned into law, when there is no prerogative for Iceland's National rights or Supreme Court. President. As I said in the beginning, this sounds like it's not such a big deal, but it's huge. I have to say, as it is, I'm especially pleased with the questions raised in committees. The General and Education Committee, however, for despite the legal and human rights we are bringing here to a group of people, we are not taking the step to the full. I pondered the fact, Mr. President, that despite this bill's approval, the situation will not be that individuals can prepare for judicial procedures with the support of sign language girls by paying from the government. I ask if it complies with the law on the status of the Icelandic language and Icelandic Sign Language, No. 61/2011, quoted earlier, said that discrimination is forbidden, depending on whether or not they use it, i.e. Icelandic or Icelandic Sign Language. Hv. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will move on and say, by permission of the President: Since it emphasizes that a person can prepare for judicial procedures in a just way, it is important that the rights of those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language be ensured in the preparation of judicial hearings. That is why the Committee directs the Ministry of Justice to consider these issues further. In fact, I consider this to be a minimum payment. I'm very pleased that this is being tore up in the committee's opinion, but it is equally important that we give up and continue with these matters. I got it. I got it. The top-of-the-art Board of Education to impress on the follow-up, that this will be more than an inspiration to the Ministry to consider these matters further, but rather take the committee initiative and follow whether this examination has taken place and how it has been made. Similarly, education requirements are only included. We've been talking about a BA test and some of that. When it comes to judgment, I have to declare a special pleasure, and enough was she before, even more pleasant with this fine opinion. Therefore, the General and Education Committee here directs the Ministry of Justice to take into account this arrangement, the conditions set before a sign - language girl to gain the right to interpret in court, as services in the judicial system must be guaranteed, as well as legal security in handling matters before the court. Here is a general view of what the problem is, if we agree that this is a problem, as has been seen in the case of a visitor. A committee, pointing out that there is a need to consider the classes of courses and testing and conditions for a sign - language girl to gain the right to interpret to the court. President. So I'm fully understanding that it is not the role of the General and Education Committee to discuss this particular matter, but to do exactly what it does, to direct it to the Ministry of Justice to consider this matter further. There again, I would like to reiterate my phrase to the Committee to follow that opinion. We know what the senator's job is, so let's get involved in this situation right now and do what we can. Then the next case will come in the next minute. But the follow-up is important, and I trust you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to follow up on this matter. It would have been a pleasure to have a place of words at the highest level. Minister of the jury on these matters. I'm gonna, President, don't make a requirement to interrupt the discussion while it's called the Supreme Court. Minister, but leave me all the right to have a word with the Minister on this matter later on, both in further discussion on this matter, but as in the general matter of Congress. I restate on the fact that as we look at the meeting program and see what subjects are the most important, they often change the lives of those mentioned in them in most ways, they are not the ones who call at the top of the headlines, but the ones who change the lives of those whose lives are discussed in them in most ways, guarantee their rights. It's one of those things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u59	Madam President. I was not present for the release of this case from the General and Education Committee. Of course, I declare myself following the committee party that has been recommended here. This issue is one of the many small steps that have been taken, and it is necessary that we take the next step so that we truly fulfill the obligation of having made Icelandic Sign Language as well as Icelandic. This is just an extremely narrow feature of everyday life, and not even of daily life, here is the factor when people represent the courts, where, of course, it is very important that individuals be interpreted into the language they are being trained to secure their rights. But the official language is public in all the country. Sadly, this is not yet a test of Icelandic Sign Language. Although it is a joy to take the step of opening up a sign - language girl to courts, for example, we need to be present. working to access employment opportunities by ensuring interpretation. Similarly, we need to strengthen the position of those in school at all school, that there is interpretation services, and all the services people may need in order to gain life just as much as we who speak the other official language of the country. I was just going to mention this, Madam President, mainly so I could tell a little story about how society is developing. In the short time I've had with what? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon of the General and Education Committee has developed some maturity. It is only a year ago that we had president of the Deaf, Heiðdís Dögg Eiríksdóttir's daughter, at a meeting with the Committee. She wrote a letter to us, didn't you order an interpreter? That's a good thing to do. The Allied Parliament of Iceland, which established this law on Icelandic Sign Language as an official case in Iceland, had not ordered an interpreter. It was so good that Heiðdís had an interpreter in the neighborhood, and he could jump in with a small advance and interpret it so that it could present important comments in the seminary discussed in the General and Education Committee here on spring days 2018. From this we learned. So now it is in the fixed procedure of a committee field that when guests are called for meetings that may need some service to communicate their views sufficiently, special attention is being given to the ministry. Although we may not have had our best time here less than a year ago, we learned from it and continue, I hope, to improve the status of those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language to participate in the future community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u60	Madam President. I'd like to, like some other members of the council, to bring into this fine matter only on the grounds that it appears at first to be a small, simple matter, and completely fine. Many may find that to be true. Like a few snoozes. All cases designed to improve the rights and lives of certain individuals at least In my mind, it's very important. This is actually taking one small step following the huge and important decision made on May 27, 2011, when sign language was made public in Iceland, and thus officially decided that those who speak this language as their mother tongue and use it as their primary language, should have the right to use and use it in all their dealings. However, the 2011 law does not intervene, at least in a direct way, although it is mentioned only in the committee opinion, how to overturn all the ends, which, of course, follow when such issues are presented. And that's maybe one of the ends that's made up here. Perhaps, and I wondered a little, if on the way it should have been specifically discussed whether the same thing should apply when discussing the court's transfer into sign language. For, excellent senators, let us not rule out that we, who are hearing, and we who use Icelandic English language as our native tongue, may need to be interpreted when, hopefully, one day, an attorney before the judgment level, choose to present his language in sign language. That is to be expected. Then they need to be considered before the court, and it may be important to be taken away from any conflict in the lyrics of the law on this subject. You might say it was the next step in this matter. Madam President. However, as little as it may seem to be, this is a very important matter of rights. It is very important that sign - language users have these rights. And it is important in this overall context that we view the rights of those who are disabled as well as the rights of the others and that we as a community have the mastery of understanding them and really understand why they are important. It's really very important. In effect, we create a community of diversity. By doing this, we are going to experience the feelings of many of us, and I'm going to allow myself to say, " Hopefully most people, that our community should be for us all, that it should be available for everyone, and that all aspects of the community should be for everyone." Many people do not have to comment on what has been in the past discussion, i.e. the importance of the courts as one of the government's foundations. In view of this, it will be even more important that all the citizens of the country can be confident that they will be able to approach the courts as adequately as possible. It is a joy to hear what was said at times. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson earlier, that the Aldus nominee has made a date - out decision that when people die, committees or other people who choose to use sign language, they are sure to be able to interpret. It is in the light that I want to look into this matter, and that is in the light that I want to express my special pleasure in this matter. I was so lucky to be able to participate in the sign - language discussion here eight years ago. It is quite memorable to have been in the conference hall at the time when all the members were full of interested people who at that time showed their joy in action - not by shouting or shouting and calling, but by applause in the figurative way that the dead people do, i.e. to raise your hands and turn them to the ground, and turn them to the edge of your fingers. At any rate, it was very memorable to witness. Here we are still taking one step in the rights struggle of these citizens, and it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u61	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. The 63/2018 that measures the entry of two EU regulations into the EEA Convention. In Council Regulation No. The 2016/438 Directive of the European Commission's Council on conformity to law and administration directives on the terms of the stock market is required. This stipulates what should be included in a written agreement between the suppliers and the management board of stocks or stock markets. In addition, the role of the owners is further established. This will require monitoring procedures for the care of certain projects committed to the third party. Finally, we will discuss the responsibility of the owners. In Council Regulation No. 2016/1212 further collection of the requirements of the European Union's current Directive for the stock market is also required. It explains the measures involved in providing information on the monitoring of stock funds within EU Member States. The protocol also contains standard forms for the transmission of such information. This Regulation includes the further implementation of the Community Directive on the stock market. It is designed to implement this directive by adjusting the law of No. 128/2011, the stock market, investment funds, and remuneration funds and is aimed at providing financial and economic secretaryship with its bill for the next legislation. The agreed regulations are expected to be implemented in accordance with the approval of that bill by the Regulation. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u62	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. The EEA Treaty recommends that two of the European Parliament's directives and the Commission's budgets of financial services will be adopted. In accordance with Directive 2013/14/EU, changes are made in three fund-wide directives. It is the directive for the staff-related retirement fund, stock funds and the management of specialized funds. The directive has required changes in the rules for the use of credit tools in the funds. The objective of these changes is to resist overtrust in credit ratings and thereby improve the quality of their investments. In accordance with the Directive 2014/EU, there are changes to the current legislation on the agreement between law and administration directives on the terms of the stock market. The directive is intended to replace the weaknesses identified in the regular work of a pension fund that has resulted in financial loss for investors. The directive seeks to increase the safety of investors in three ways. First, by clarifying the role and responsibility of the owners, secondly by the sentence of a new worksheet system for key workers and third, by conforming to the minimum monitoring authority. The implementation of the aforementioned directive calls for a legal adjustment in this country. They are expected to be created by a change in the law No. 128/2011, the stock market, investment funds and the remuneration, as well as the secondary changes. The strategy is to provide financial and economic ministers with its bill of material at the Fall Summit of 2019. A respectable president. I suggest that after a discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u63	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 64/2018. At this decision, it is recommended that four EU regulations relating to the European Risk Fund and the European Social Resources Fund be included in the EEA Convention. As there was no improvement in the above forms, the agreed decision of the joint EEA committee was taken by the European Commission on a administrative notice on the part of Iceland. Implementation of the European Parliament and the Council (EU), No. 345/2013, contains a common rule on the European risk fund and its operator. It contains the requirements for marketing as a European risk store. The purpose of this Regulation is to promote the growth and innovation of SMEs in the European Union. The Council and Council No. 346/2013 contains a common rule of European social contributions and their operators. This set lays down the requirements that must be met so that a fund can be marketed as a European social enterprise. In particular, the purpose of this Regulation is to make it easier for investors who want to invest in companies with social objectives to find and select a European social enterprise. At the same time, companies with social goals are making it easier for them to seek financial support in the European Economic Area. In Council Regulation No. 593/2014 and 594/2014 are then required to submit further to the two prior regulations. It is, in fact, there. the type of control authority notification is indicated. The introduction of the four regulations specified calls for a legal adjustment in this country. The aim is to provide financial and economic secretary for the implementation of the products at the coming legislature. A respectable president. I suggest that after a discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u64	A respectable president. It's often been said of us senators that we talk too little about the EEA and we don't have much to do with it. They run a little through the council. [[No, no.]] - That's what they said to me on the Byglian morning radio, the highest. Minister, since we were discussing the position of the EEA contract at all. I think the first round. The council does not usually discuss these matters much, but I would like to conclude that there is an extremely good work on the part of the State Department. What I find in this particular case is a reason to draw attention only to it is that there are two kinds of funds covered by this Regulation, which include the EuVECA, as it is called, and has a common rule of a particular kind of fund, i.e. European venture capital, and their operator. The arrangement contains the requirements to be met so that such a fund can be marketed. It is said that these conditions included. the composition of a library, i.e. The funds, their suitable investment goals, their investment devices that they are authorized to use and classe investors that are suitable for investing in them according to the standard on the internal market. The purpose of this Regulation is to promote the growth and innovation of SMEs in the European Union. It may have been heard frequently from the mouth of the left green that anything that attracts SMEs and innovations is something we've been talking about. I think that includes the funding of these companies when they are on their original route. However, the fourth Regulation, entitled EuSEF, refers to a social enterprise. It has the same thing underneath, i.e. This common rule. It speaks of the composition of the library, i.e. Investors of the funds, as in the rest, and goals. It is said that the purpose is to facilitate investors who want to invest in companies with social objectives and can then select a European social enterprise. And that those enterprises working on such targets can get financial support from the European Economic Area. I think it's a very positive thing and it seems to me that these companies are making it easier for them to get their money, especially during the early days of corporate development. This will also be discussed with the European stock market (EEC) that speaks of the obligation of the administration authority, which supervises, and so on. I just wanted to get in on this subject just a little bit, especially in the light of the conversation I was on the radio the other day that said we didn't care about these matters. If this works out, I'm happy to see that if we bring this in, we'll allow the Icelandic company to operate and market such a fund that we don't have the opportunity to do today, but at the same time, people within our common European economy have the opportunity to do the same. A respectable president. I just wanted to kill on this case because I think it's a really good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u65	Madam President. I wanted to cut in the same knee as the dog. A senator, a member of my team and group, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, regarding what is presented in the Senate arrangement for the social enterprise. It's like the usual when you're at the highest. The secretary of state is coming to the Congress Hall to recommend the introductions and directives of the EEA Convention. That's the case with the good. Like my sister, I count this law, the Council Regulation and the Council No. 346/2013, of the European Social Resource, very good. It would have been nice to see how much you need. The minister of the foreign lands visualizes the influence of this fine case. But like the highest. The minister will announce these introductions calling for prime alarms from the highest level. Budget and economic secretary for bringing in the regulations. We can expect that at the Council of the legislatures of 2019◯2020. As mentioned in the case of the senator before me, we find that this is a specific kind of fund, a European social enterprise and its operator, with the conditions required to market a fund called the EuVECA Fund or a European social enterprise. As stated here, by permission of the president, these conditions involve: the composition of a library, i.e. The funds, their suitable investment goals, their investment devices that they are authorized to use and classe investors that are suitable for investing in them according to the standard on the internal market. The purpose of this Regulation, as stated, is to facilitate investors who want to invest in companies with social objectives to find and select a European social enterprise, as well as to help companies with social goals to seek funding in the European Economic Area. This is of the good and consistent development that we have already seen when it comes to the social responsibility of companies and pension funds, which, more importantly, will have to be put in place and increased in Iceland. I know the management of the Icelandic Pension Funds has been taking a close look. I think it may also be said of the regulations that they give us here on the one-on-a-half-a-half-a-day opportunity to expand the objectives and regulations further in the proposed bill, just as the funds have to set for themselves when it comes to so-called social contributions. It would be nice to have some clues as to how the highest level is involved. The minister of the state is picturing this. When it comes to recording, Iceland, as indicated by the introduction, has only adopted 13.4% of the types adopted by the EU during that period. It would have been good for a long time to adopt the 2013 Regulation in the Icelandic legal code, for this is of good and best concern. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Secretary of State to celebrate and bring in more regulations and plagion proposals on our level, as it is usually possible to say, and that I believe that most people, if not all, are willing to improve the Icelandic law, as the EEA has done for an Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u66	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 21/209, change in IX. Annexes to the Convention on Council Regulation and Council No. 2015/751 on card-related fees. By Regulation No. The 2015/751 intermediate fees paid by transferers are required for the use of consumer credit cards, i.e. 0.2% of the money due to debet cards and 0.3% for credit cards. In addition, regulations in the Regulation require bans on the local restrictions of the permit agreements or the rules on credit cards and recommend the separation of credit cards systems and processing agencies. There is also increased resources of carers and traders to determine the process of payment, dissociation of service fees and information giving of sales shepherds. The protocol is intended to reduce the cost of sales and consumers, to improve competition and to promote integration of credit card markets across Europe. Induction of Regulation No. 2015/751 calls for legal changes in this country and recently recommended financial and economic minister for bill to cover card-related fees for the induction of the product. I propose, a respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u67	A respectable president. When you go, you don't stop. It can end like that. But I find this matter very interesting, especially in view of the fact that earlier today we were discussing consumers' affairs. This is nothing but a serious emergency, i.e. the fees we need and the expenses we've had to pay, the fees for our maps that we're always using. It is being set up to set a limit on the price paid by taxpayers by such cards and to be different between 0.2% and 0.3% due to credit cards. There are also bans on regional limits in both contracts and the map system. The important thing is to separate the credit card system from the processing and processing providers and to monitor for additional resources of both carers and traders to determine the process of payment, dissociation of the service fees of entry shepherds and their information delivery for sales. This is primarily to reduce the expense of both the people selling the product and our consumers. This is to promote integration and improve the fairness of the credit card market across the European border. I think we all know how to pay excessive expenses for our use in the banking system whether it's online or connected to maps, whether we're out in the world or at home, it doesn't matter. I believe that everything involved in managing that regular action towards reducing the costs below is of importance to consumers. This has been repeatedly called on and hopefully is one of the things that will happen when consumer legislation or consumer policy comes from the Ministry of Industrial and Neonization. It's a relief that I think the public will join in celebrating, and hopefully they'll lift. A financial secretary has provided a bill to implement a maximum of the intermediate costs. I think the banking system was criticized for all kinds of charges. We would need to know if there were any other types that would help us to get a hold on both the invisible and the visible expenses we pay for the many services we make use of in the system. But it's the same as before, I was just going to mention it. I often find such matters very technical, so people don't want to read them, feel that they are too complex and difficult to understand. It is often with the EEA that they are very difficult to understand, and it takes a lot of reading to get through them. But it's simple and good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u68	Madam President. It never happened that I didn't see a reason to talk in an EEA language like this. It's not by chance, it's because of that, as it were, of the highest order. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, suing the link is already being discussed in the course of the year. The Economic and Business Committee, which has already been discussed only there. You see, it's a little bit much and a large consumer thing going on. To put it in context of the problem. According to the legal bill, members of the Senate report that the subspecies there are probably about 2.1 billion a year, i.e. The fee paid by the consumers, intermediate fees for card-related pay. This is the amount. The council now has a bill to legalize card-related fees. Such payments are expected to be significantly reduced and the cost of consumers as a bill goes down considerably, by well over $1 billion. In the context of the fact that national credit cards, maps in the country, amounted to over 350 billion last year, someone might say that a billion people did not change that image dramatically. Nevertheless, this amount is considerable, and somewhere it also says that crumbs are bread. It's not money that men pick up from the street, and that's why I think this case is brilliant. I'm glad we're taking that step here. As members of Congress are aware, people may barely move the word, at least not on the usual day, different from either a credit card or a debet card, and if they do not, it can be assumed that a large part of their daily lives will go through credit cards records on their bank accounts, which are also the anti-reflation of credits that are underneath. So it affects all consumers, and it really is important. It is important for consumers to feel that governments are defending them, let's say that governments are trying to improve their position. It is particularly a joy to see that the induction of the EEA is a step in that direction. This is a matter that almost all consumers will feel on their own. While this may not be a large amount for each Icelandic household, there is still considerable money and a good thing to consider. I hope so. The Foreign Affairs Committee, which I see here, will handle this matter quickly and effectively and bring it back to the council so that we can handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u69	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 18/2019 which measures the Regulation and Council Regulation No. 909/2014, in terms of improved stock collections in the European Union and stock centres, will be included in the EEA Convention. Qualifications, No. 909/2014, there are rules on improving stock accounts and consistent requirements made for the stock market. The agreement is that the stocks are always electronic and that the stock support should be made in a uniform way in the internal market. In this way, the increased duties of the stock market are laid down to ensure and monitor the reporting and to ensure submission. The Regulation also complies the requirements of the stock markets, which run a financial system. The work of the labour centres will need to apply for a new work permit and be able to extend their service across the borders of the EEA. Induction of Regulation No. 909/2014 calls for a national legal adjustment. It is intended that financial and economic ministers will be submitted by the current legislature board for the induction of the procedure. I propose, a respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u70	Madam President. I want to thank you, of course. Foreign Minister for his speech on this directive that deals with financial services and establishes the decision of the joint EEA committee. As is so often the case in the past when a foreign minister comes here to the Congress Hall to recommend the interpretation of the EEA regulations, it is very relevant and often concerns the financial and financial systems. That's all right. This is a law on improving the stock account, as stated in the highest court. Ministers, consistent with requirements made for the stock market. It also states that stocks should be equally electronic and that stock contributions should be agreed in the internal markets. In addition, increasing the obligation of the stock markets is laid down to ensure and monitor the level and ensure the submission. This is reflected in chapter 3 of the preceding article, which was mentioned in the case of the highest degree. A minister shows black in white that by recording the EEA contract and all that is involved in that contract, we are making a tremendous improvement in the legal environment, especially the financial system. This has helped Icelandic society on their feet after the 2008/2009 collapse. I would also like to quote a talk that is the highest. Minister to whom he recently held at the morning meeting of the Ministry of State, the Association of Employment and the European Union of the EEA. It was overlooked by a minister that the EEA Convention has virtually unregulated access to one of the largest markets in the world. It means that Icelandic companies compete in equal terms with European companies. It involves the deduction of customs and the removal of technical business barriers, which includes that Icelanders can live and work anywhere in the EEA. As I mentioned at the outset, there is an improvement in the legal environment and, in particular, perhaps during the last few years, when we have had to improve and strengthen the financial system. I'm not so sure we'd have taken the initiative ourselves to present the bill to improve the stock market and to match requirements made for stock markets, stocks are in electronic form, etc. I'm not making us senators here when it comes to knowledge and experience from the stock markets or our insight into that world or our will to improve the legal workings of the financial system and stock markets. But it is quite clear that the EEA Convention has made us equal to the countries we want to compare with. We are as numerous as we are when we meet the demands for the financial system as we are strong when trying to strengthen our financial systems, stock markets, and the development and legal framework of the financial system. Then we've certainly enjoyed the EEA contract at that job. Although, as I mentioned in my first speech, a person often feels that he takes a little time from the fact that the regulations have been accepted and until we bring them into our own law, this is now much more of a good thing to do. But we need to do better. We need to do better in leading in more regulations, more matters. As we may have discussed many times and frequently in the conference hall, we also need to do better in our early interest measures when it comes to the implementation and regulations associated with the EEA Convention. I know it's the highest. The minister of state is already on his side, and it's a good thing. I welcome all of this regulations and productions at the highest level. Minister here recommends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u71	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the transition to IX. Annex to the EEA Convention and Membership of Council Regulation and Council of 2017/1129 for descriptions to be published on the general market or business oers. The requested Regulation No 37/2010 has not yet been received. 2017/1129 to the EEA Convention, which will be aimed at doing so within the next few weeks. This is a Regulation that replaces the EU's current regulations for descriptions. The term refers to documents published on the basis of tender stocks or stock market purchases. This Regulation includes: The reporting system of the European Commission's state of state-of-the-art reports on confirmed reports of other EU monitoring authorities across cross-borders. If the decision of the joint EEA committee has not taken effect when the stated Regulation takes effect within the EU, which will be July 21, 2018, buying halls in other countries can refuse to accept established reports from the EEA/EFTA countries. This situation can lead to uncertainty and increased costs for publishers, inhibiting their access to funding and thus harming EEA/EFTA interests. The economic interests of the EEA/EFTA countries, in particular Norway and Liechtenstein, require that the Regulation take effect at the same time in the EU countries as it makes EU countries. In order to accomplish this, it is important to ensure that either the joint EEA Commission decision on the recording of the EU contract without a administrative advance of Iceland or, if this decision is made in such advance, should be made that its recovery is reported early enough to have been established when the Regulation takes effect in the EU countries. In other words, the approval of the Council arrangement includes the following: On the one hand, if the synonym accepts the decision accepted before making the agreed decision to the joint EEA committee, the government will be permitted to accept the decision without a political official notice. However, if the Parliament's resolution is agreed upon after the decision taken by the European Commission is made on a administrative notice, the government will be permitted to reverse it in due notice. As for the introduction in Iceland, financial and economic ministers are expected to contribute to the next legislation body of legislation for its introduction. A respectable president. I suggest that after a discussion, this proposal be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u72	Mr. President. Sometimes it is said that the drop is hollow. Perhaps it is true that now that we are discussing this so - called alcohol bill, one more time you will be tempted to watch that picture. But not everything that seems to be in that form is because research and reviews, articles, and so forth, show that professionals, health institutions, various organizations, ministry, and other persons oppose the way the bill preaches. I'd say, " Much of the public too." So the drop'll put the stone down, yes. But it may be, if we maintain a metaphor, that the stone keeps growing. The opposition to this route grows. There are more and more people who want to live as a liquor dealer in the country. Here are two contrasts. One is about prevention and public health and worries about increasing access to alcohol, and the other is about business ventures to profit from alcohol traffic and business freedom. Now the profit of sales is being used for social purposes through the state. It is obvious that most people want it that way, for obvious reasons, for the State strengthens and pays for many things involving alcohol and its consumption. There is also the responsibility of freedom - responsibility for each availability of alcohol. It is now relatively open and is sitting. It should remain that way. In modern society, there are laws and regulations and bans, and some of them all revolve around the password in this field, which is folklore, and the fact that 1 in 10 adults in Iceland have problems with alcohol, a variety of factors, including alcoholism. This needs to be taken by preventive measures, by regulations and politicians, who aim to dig into and deal with the source of the alcohol problem to the extent possible socially. We all know that society is limited and even prevents the availability of events, practices, chemicals, and other things that only add to society's expense of correcting and curing and relieving things, e.g. Improve health damage and prevent it. It's all for the good of civilians. That's why this bill is as rigid here at the General as it has been for all these years. And that is why, many members of the council, we do not want to increase access to alcohol beyond what is now. Mr. President. Alcohol consumption in litres per person in Iceland has increased slowly and slowly and with social and social problems. No one can deny it. It is most surprising to discuss one day the increased bioavailability of alcohol and listen to the other day's demand for additional donations to the UK and to more members of the health and social sectors. There is no experience, no study, no professional opinion that the easier access to alcohol is to reduce alcohol abuse, to reduce accidents, to reduce health loss, to reduce tragedy and to any other degree. For one thing, a small sale and a collective sale are held at the hands of the government rather than with private sources. They must be content with bars, restaurants, hotels, and boarding homes, and sell alcohol there and benefit from it. Transporters can't contribute anything professionally - I repeat: can't provide any professional material to push or strengthen their cause. It's good to see it. Then you can look at the other side of the matter, i.e. moderate consumption of alcohol, better relationships with this product. It comes primarily with certain resources, including limited access and careful information, even in what we can call propaganda, especially to young people. More important, with improved circumstances and better lives, many who struggle or face unhappiness. Improved society is one of the keys to less alcohol consumption. We know that. It is important to round social management of a number of liquor stores instead of a market competition. This control is limited, indeed, just as control of a number of wine management facilities, as it is different to equal, state control or community control, and free market or market control, which is profit free. There is no need to hide that truth in the matter. Of course, the main interest of a businessman is to get into the pocket of money that sells on alcoholic drinks is in Iceland. I believe that access will be increased by the privatization of the retail and any advertisements it brings. All of this will have an impact in that direction. The responsibility of the bill Artists is truly great, and they want to make it appear that the bioavailability is not increased with this bill's approval, that is, only a transfer between traders. So I refuse. I would also like to point out that the income of alcohol, once again, falls to the full extent of the consequences, you see, to the State. It is better than the same income to go to the country's shops, with full respect for their roles and owners. Mr. President. While we cannot correct the faults of the alcohol - based community, we certainly will not improve the problem by opening the problem better than when drinking is done, even in experimental ways. The bioavailability is abundant and is on the custody of society. In a faraway future, we may have the same capacity for drinking as for e.g. In central Europe, but we need to have changed a lot of things. It may be noted that alcohol in Iceland is not a very old product and that alcohol abuse in Iceland is not a very old social ill. Some of us are more like our neighbors in Greenland when it comes to alcohol than the Central European nations I was witnessing to. In this present time, let us cherish the religious confession of liberalism, which I so call, for it repeatedly brings forwards of the bill like this, sometimes in a changed form, to an obvious witness. Alcohol is not unique, such as phones or supplements. To argue is to challenge all reason. I can say that my profession of faith is that I am a lover of freedom in many areas, but freeness of business with alcohol is not successful. I'm going to finish this speech by reminding them to be responsible for freedom and to control access and public health, clear public health, and effective preventive measures in these areas. That is equal now to the other nine or ten times. Congress officials have spent valuable hours repeating our words, at times changing little, and a very low - sounding bill in the community. I'm going to let myself lay down on this bill with all weight, and I'm going to think that the ideologies behind it have no business with an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u73	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for an excellent speech. I agree with the senator's statement. My opinion is primarily based on the experiences of other nations, how other nations have come out of taking these into stores, just with diseases that result from increasing their consumption in litres, including those of the senator, making more pressures on the body, such as hepatitis, vascular disease, cancer, and cirrhosis, as well as the rest of heavy drinking. I would like to ask the senator: Do we agree with that, as the senator sees it, the situation, or the constant friendship of alcohol sales, is the right way to continue, or does the senator feel differently about it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Unaltered condition. There are, I'm told, 1,200 wine restaurants in Iceland and 50 liquor sales in the United States. We know that the consumption has increased in alcohol fractions from 33/4 to 63/4, possibly to 8 today. It's probably in my hands, so to me, it's a very straight line. I don't think we're supposed to add to that ratio in ourselves at all. It's a pretty good system, if we look at it, as it is now, and I don't think it needs to be changed. I would like to remind you that I quoted an article of 80 experts in several countries that could demonstrate a direct link between increased access to alcohol and increased domestic violence and street violence. [[The president calls.]] It's very obvious to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u75	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. The Senator mentioned the Greenlands, our neighboring nation in the west or in the northwest, and they are in great trouble because the senator introduced cultural values. They are relatively young when it comes to accessing alcohol. Then we can talk about such countries as France and other European nations that may not be directly involved with alcoholism but exactly physical diseases, such as liver disease, vascular disease, and such. The point is: We're probably not ready to take this step until after some X years, probably after saying goodbye, we're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u76	Mr. President. I named Greenlands because I know them well, and I don't want to minimize their problems or the ability to deal with them. I don't think there's a very big difference between the period discussed in Iceland and Greenland, where alcohol or alcohol were actually available, 100◯200 years. Of course, our ancestors drank themselves with some slip. That may be so. But I'm talking about communities that were on their way to modern times. On the other hand, it is desirable, of course, that we could reduce the consumption of alcoholic beverages in liters by some means. I'm not saying that it means that we're going to lock up places, but that's where the prevention would come first and more. I listed here to improve society, to improve the conditions that lead to alcohol abuse. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a lot to do, but we're doing it. A senator too agrees that we can have a very upbuilding conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u77	Mr. President. I must admit that I am always afraid of politicians who feel that they need to be wise for others and not trust in the nation to know what is best for them or for individuals. But I'm listening to a case coming out of nowhere. A senator, asking them directly: Why, then, have not humans object to an increase in bioavailability that has followed the current Vienna policy, which is greatly increased? Exceeded permission to run a drinking facility? And why do humans fail to use the same reasoning when it comes to such reasoning? to other devastating consumer products, such as sugary foods or tobacco, which are fully bioavailable in every small store in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u78	Mr. President. The 63 of us here, who are making sense all day long. The evidence that there is someone here who wants to limit access to something or change some pattern or something - that it's some kind of myth or that we're threatening freedom? I understand those arguments over heads not, and I give very little for them, unfortunately. I just have to answer it that way. But when it comes to comparing alcohol with sugar or tobacco - I have no numbers than I think, I believe the social costs and unhappiness associated with alcohol are several times more serious than those of sugar or even tobacco smoke. So it's not equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u79	V.E.G. President. Yes, the senator has no numbers, but he thinks it's a hundred times worse. Today, it is simply so undisputed that excessive drinking has a negative health impact on people. Of course, smoking is the same. Of course, the same is true - and is becoming one of the most serious dangers to human health today - an excessive consumption of sugar, too much food, if it can be said to do so, especially in sugary products. I think it's just the same way. We have, for example. successful reduction of tobacco use by education on the harmful effects of smoking, although bioceivable. That's why I say again: It's exactly the same thing, it's just the typical premeditativeism, not to trust people to be aware of themselves. That is what is reflected in the proselytization of dogs. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We agree that excessive consumption of all the things we've been discussing is, of course, the bad, but moderate consumption is desirable. In my speech, I discussed moderate drinking. However, this tobacco issue does not match because we have limited access to tobacco. The tobacco has been hidden. There is only one special store in Iceland with tobacco. And more and more. It's been marked. So it just doesn't matter. We are and have been working on limiting tobacco use, not increasing access to it. It is also trying to absorb sugar in a positive way, so to speak, because it is a food that has been available and cannot be compared to tobacco or alcohol. [[The president calls.]] This discussion does not lead to the right conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u81	Mr. President. The reason why I'm on this bill outside of wanting to allow people to make decisions about their own consumption, no matter what they are a drug or whatever, in this case who harm them themselves -- one of them is fate, custody of the individual, and make sure he doesn't harm himself, some people think that something is to be done - is that I can also see that there is a five-fold increase in money from the state, which is taken from those who consume alcohol, and that he puts five times more in a public health fund of alcohol. According to the U.S.A., it's 2.5% of our people, all of us weakest people, who drink 26% of the total amount. It's a tax for those people. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what people need for treatment. We need more funding on prevention. [[The president calls.]] I can review it better in a talk afterwards, but I believe that the overall impact of this, even if the consumption is increasing, is positive because there is an increase in money on prevention and treatment issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u82	Now the President must ask members of Congress to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u83	Mr. President. Hv. A senator says that we do not want to allow people to rule themselves. But the people don't want it. Isn't that it? Do we not think that all tests related to this particular bill show that opposition to it just increases? And where are the professionals? Why should we not listen to it all at once? Precinctism. I just call it community responsibility. And then we can have those meaningful words, and then we can exchange them right here, and then I'm a guardian. I'm also a community responsibilitiesist. We agree that we should, of course, be prophylaxis. The fact that the state taxes this product I think is simply an answer to the problems involved in this product. Of course, this taxation affects those who are dependent on alcohol. But alcohol cannot be kept on sale for that person. Well, it's simply a community problem that we react in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u84	You see, I hear that over and over again. Yes, there is clearly a public health problem, and some in politics believe that in this case the public health problem of alcohol consumption, or we'll say abuse of alcohol, abuse of alcohol. This should be taken into consideration by increasing prices and limiting availability in time. The level of alcohol consumption is twice that of time and space based on the World Health Organization data. The data there are clear that if the price goes up by 10%, alcohol consumption will go down by 4%. It's half as much as the bioavailability. But, yes, it's obviously a public health problem. I completely agree with that. The bioavailability point, yes, it's being limited here, there's nothing to interfere with, but the price is high. Does the senator not agree that we need to make this money - 25% of all the money taken from a liquor store - is paid by 2.5% - on a treatment matter? Would he offer a bill with me that alcohol charge should be recorded to 10% for all the sickest, as the U.S.A. has called? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u85	Mr. President. If I'm going to answer on the air, I'll put in primes with what? I'm going to see the bill first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u86	Do you support this suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u87	I get it. It's okay. I'm just not gonna answer that question until I know what it's all about, except for what it's about. A senator said here in a pita. All right. I think the focus of all this is simply that there are no references anywhere with increased access, if we agree that this is an increased bioavailability. Of course, we can disagree, and they say, "Well, there's no increasing access, it's just being replaced. However, in the case of increased bioavailability everywhere, no matter where you appear, they agree on, which knows how things are working and has been tested, that this will lead to more problems. I'm not gonna stay in this room and vote by it. [[The president calls.]] It's simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti of Guðmundsson for an excellent speech and meaningful discussion on this subject, which is of great importance to all the people, especially from a public health motive in my opinion. Hv. A senator published alcohol ads. In fact, the marketing of alcohol is globally developed. Although forbidden in Iceland, there are obstacles. Because of repeated advertising on alcohol, a positive attitude toward alcohol is formed. At the same time, drinking alcohol increases. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes this bill is just the beginning of a bill being given a bill to allow alcohol advertisements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. There's a certain kind of drinking presentation on the bill. This is natural because private partners carrying this product as a sale may somehow need to be able to maintain it. I repeat once again: Of course, it is a future profit that is primarily responsible for the interest in the store. Whether this will lead to a slow and slow evacuation, i.e. permission to advertise alcohol, so I can't answer. Yes, that might very well be the way the store rises. You can also ask yourself with the imported magazines that carry these advertisements. Do they have any value in this? I can't answer that properly either. [[The president calls.]] But I share my concerns with each other. The senator of drinking ads over his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Many countries have, in various ways, banned alcohol advertisements. These advertisements affect young people, especially young people. I'll mention beer commercials as an example in various sports games, soccer games, etc. All of this has its own effect and helps people to increase their interest in this product, which is as though we are known to be harmful in many areas, if handled properly. But I think that's exactly what it is. A senator mentioned that advertisements are being opened. This tells you that certain people in the community, shops, and generals are being worked out. [[The president calls.]] There's always a step in going further, and I'm really afraid that next time it's going to be drunk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u91	The President still reminds me of the lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u92	Mr. President. Yeah, at what. A senator will agree that advertisements will be kept in some way at this objective. But I would like to remind you that by educational and preventive measures, alcohol consumption has been reduced to certain schools with a uniform campaign that is taught in Iceland and sometimes called the English Plaet Youth◯. This work can be successful if it is done properly. Finally, I want to remind you that we all know people with a drinking problem, and we know exactly what has been through the pages of human history when it comes to this particular product. I think we should all, instead of presenting a bill like this, to join in working against that evil. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u93	Mr. President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in the law on liquor and tobacco and then there's a couple of other legal groups, but then there's that. Congress officials are familiar with the situation, as I am known by the name of a camp alcohol, a concentration camp, and such. That is what the matter has been called in general discussions and perhaps not unforeseeable. In effect, the spirit in the bill is tempting it with the advice given in the bill to make alcohol an ordinary consumer, changing the thinking of society into alcohol, as it were, other consumer products. It's not like that. This is not my opinion or idea or feeling or will. These are facts. Despite what some have. Councilmen have asked here on a talk chair, that moderate consumption of alcohol is only good, show recent research, and no small research, but recent studies that have been conducted mainly in Western lands, that there is no amount of alcohol that does not cause health problems. I know why. People hate to hear this, and I know there's probably some out there who think, "Oh, is this really the way it is? [[For example, consider the following:]] But that's the way it is. Even eating equivalent to one bar dose, as it is called, 10 ml of pure alcohol per day or 3◯4 such doses per week, which is not heavily consumed, is half beer or a little more than that, is not healthy for you. This is not good for the body, but it may be good for your mental well - being temporarily, even if it is not long enough. I'll admit it to the U.S.A. that, anyway, I have personally and privately chosen to use alcohol, but I'm not going to try to claim it to anyone that I do it for my health. I will protest any who come on the II Parliament's deliverer and try to claim that there is some particular source of alcohol. It's not like that. All the studies that have been conducted, anyway, have shown that increasing the supply of alcohol results in an increase in the consumption of liters, countless of clean alcohol. The World Health Organization quotes its 2016 report that I, rather than 2013, recall in some 200 studies to support this. So there is a linear relationship between bioavailability and consumption. Any community with increased bioavailability has occurred in the challenge of increasing consumption. Then you wonder what problem a bill like this is going to solve. Hv. paritaprevir Þór Ólafsson came into an interesting friendship earlier, that it was a positive thing because we would get more money in a public health fund by some of the terms of the bill. I would like to direct it to those members of Congress who accept that approach, i.e. to get more money for their projects, to offer a special bill there, and to see if it is not willing to go that way at the council. Today, it has been reported that many professionals who have expressed themselves over this issue are opposed to increased access. Now it can be discussed, and I think that's the point. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in earlier, that there are about 1,200 places of sale or places in the country where alcohol can be accessed. My question is, is that not enough? I think that's the point. This classic freedom argument has been linked to the fact that there is so much freedom in buying alcohol anywhere, at any time, and at any store, etc. I think that in exactly the same way that we haven't done that way with tobacco - we've been taking steps to limit access to tobacco - we should do the same with alcohol. I'm pretty sure, what. Councilmen, that if we were confronted today with whether to allow substances like tobacco to be taken in general consumption, let's say, "Smoky" or something like that, we'd be paying attention to research and say, "No, this is a very dangerous warning, we shouldn't allow it. " I think that probably most of us would give little for the argument that there would be some particular freedom-mattering in it, sorry, President, to use an English slant, some special moment of freedom just to allow a new dangerous subject. I don't think so. We wouldn't do that. I talked only earlier about health problems related to alcohol. It's a little bad that a part of the problems with an increase in alcohol consumption comes up in such a long time. It may be difficult for players to realize in some display what is happening. Then we're so lucky that other nations in the world have tried this. So it has been answered: Do we have anything to do with the problems of central Europe with cirrhosis and liver cancer and all of these pancreatitiss and all of this stuff? Aren't we somehow different? I'm afraid the answer is no. We're exactly the same. Unfortunately, the growing problem with alcohol consumption has already begun in Iceland. THE figures in the U.S.A. that many members of the Parliament are addressed directly indicate that alcohol consumption and alcohol - related problems are less likely to occur in Iceland. I'm afraid that's not the case. Some members of the Parliament have spread so far as to compare alcohol with their intake of sugar and fat. I can't believe it! It's just like sugar or glucose and fats that are vital. It's amazing to tie the two together. Of course, abuse of all materials, almost no matter what names they are called, can be dangerous to us. It is thus with alcohol, tobacco, and other substances that even small consumption is dangerous to us. From the discussion of this sense of freedom that is so precious to humans and this democratic love that people sometimes flaunt when they are in total confusion, I wonder, " Why don't people just turn in a national bill for this? ' Why wouldn't the senators dare? Why would those senators not dare to ask the nation about these changes in alcohol law? I can tell you why. Senators. Over the years, the nation has often said in all sorts of polls that they have no interest in this. Perhaps it would be the way to ask just the people, let them decide. The common people in this country understand perfectly well that those who are advocates of this case are playing with fire. The people of the country understand that. The bill is not merely suggesting that alcohol be sold at stores. It is also suggested that it be advertised. If you match it with something we've forbidden, I wonder, for example. To me: Would the carriers of this bill suggest that we allowed advertising on tobacco, e.g., would that be a normal step? I don't know. It would be interesting to hear their viewpoint on this. I have a little more time left, Mr. President, and I'd like to discuss what's going on in these matters. After we increased so much alcohol, in 1989, I think I was sure it was, a gradual increase in the amount of time we had been drinking. Little by little. There's this positive pattern that everybody's talking about, I think, getting a little every day, you're never drunk at all. But, as a result, I am at least allowing myself to say so, we are seeing more and more problems in older people, more and more older people, especially older women who are looking to health centers for alcohol - related problems. I find it hard to see a positive trend. I find it very difficult to see that a bill like this would reverse that bad trend. I think that would further add to the problem. I would like to ask the members of Congress the longest words to think carefully before they think of paying a street account like this through the General Assembly of the Icelanders. There's no evidence to recommend that, there's no need for the bill. Only those who want to sell alcohol and make money on liquor sales may be increasing their freedom of any sort. I don't see that it's the closest kind of help the people in Iceland need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u94	A respectable president. I'll make sure of what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson that I'm going to think carefully about this matter, and I've somehow managed to get through life without having a lot of thought about it, even though there's always a discussion at the General Assembly. I'm listening to the discussion, and I'm going to join the General Information Committee and Education Committee, and I'm going to try to find some conclusion afterwards. I'd like to have a place to say. A member of the council because he is a doctor and talked about a drink of moderation that I thought he questioned, that moderation was desirable. Is it not so much less access that alcohol was accompanied by a greater intake of alcohol, a higher rate of bubbly drinks, can we call it? As a result, I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he believes that saying four white wine bottles a week is more harmful than one bottle of vodka in an evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u95	A respectable president. Yeah, now I'm being told I'm asking for resept. That's fine. The studies that I know about and have been carried out in this vision - I don't know about one glass of white wine in the evening verse one bottle of vodka per week or once a week - all health benefits indicate that, although small, daily drinks are more harmful to health than binge drink. The alcohol consumption, as we all know, has a social tendency to become much more difficult and frightening. If you look closely at the health and physical benefits or not the benefits, it is better to drink all the red wine bottles in one evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Is it not somehow correctly understood that the matter may not be just a matter of health matters but, to some extent, a social and cultural solution, i.e. Drinking on weekends, as was customary here when I was at least a young person, was a great social disaster and brought disaster to a number of families. Whether the drinking was not social and culturally much less undesirable than the drinking that is practiced, and I agree with it. A senator must be overly moderate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u97	Mr. President. Yeah, it's interesting, what you say, philosophical speculation. Is this just the person's problem who drinks? Is this the person's problem who drinks and his family? Is this a problem for the whole community? Is this merely health care, or is it primarily social and social? It's a discussion that we're in as a community, and definitely not as a body of Congress has ever put us down to take it, but it's a debate I think at least Very interesting. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that the permutation drink she was was was wasn't very fun. [[The president calls.]] Someone may feel that he has had some kind of parenting value for someone to get involved for a short time. [[The president calls.]] In the long term, I think the other approach may be more social.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u98	V.E.G. President. In this discussion, there are always small claims. A common claim is that the increased bioavailability will greatly increase alcohol consumption and the consequences of alcohol consumption. When you start looking at some scientific conclusions in this case, they're just very limited, and I've never seen any real research. Then you look at some facts in Iceland where there has been an increase in bioavailability, but the drinking of certain groups has been reduced. So it is not by itself that there is a sign in between. But because they say that a higher bioavailability will increase some drinking, I recently saw a news report in a highly respected media center where a study on which nations were the most healthy. Two nations were in the top seats, Spain, and Italy. [[The president calls.]] Maybe what. A senator can tell us how access to alcohol is available there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u99	A respectable president. You can see that certain aspects of a particular community can be taken out, claiming that a particular factor has a significant impact on how that community goes. That's where we have to look at the overall context. If we look at a film, let's say life expectancy in communities, it shows that Italians live less than Spanish. However, we know that alcohol consumption in those countries and access to alcohol is good. If we look at other factors, such as the formation of infant mortality or the incidence of vaccination, it is more likely than in Iceland, and infant mortality is likely to be lower. Somehow you can't take out the booze and say, "Yes, it's the booze that changes everything. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u100	V.E.G. President. You are right: We cannot decide what people live long or short or how they are from alcohol because there are certain other factors that are important. I'm simply saying that these claims to increase bioavailability - which may not be increased even if more people can sell alcohol than the ATSVR; it can only be more difficult to store stores. There's nothing like a sign between them. The claim that if we increase the possibility that more people can sell alcohol, then their health will go to hell, of course it's not. Moreover, we must not forget our spiritual health, why. A senator, whom I think is as important as physical health. I insist that if I didn't have alcohol on my hand regularly, my spiritual health would be worse. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] So, finally, about a national bill. Why should they give such a national saying, i.e. those who don't eat the product or who don't know how to use it? The law of the land is to be binding to those who know how to use the product and who like it. [[The point is, these three?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u101	A respectable president. Hv. A senator entered a number of things. First about the bioavailability, it's not an opinion, a feeling or a claim. There are facts that speak, and the World Health Organization, as mentioned in my talk, has repeatedly pointed out that there is a linear relationship. When it comes to drinking alcohol, we should not say that we are mentally ill. A senator only came on, especially to mention that, since alcohol consumption in the long term is very bad for spiritual health. It adds to depression, increasing anxiety - it has been able to isolate the active substance, ethanol, as a cause. [[Up front.]] I think people should be very careful about calling for more alcohol to improve their mental health. [[Up front.]] I think people would be on a very high level of ice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his good speech, informative language, evidently speaks with knowledge of this very field of medical education. I'm going to come up here that I'm really worried about the young people in this relationship because I think an increased access to alcohol can be particularly harmful to young people. There is a new study in the North countries that shows that alcohol consumption has been reduced in the last ten years, which is positive. Young people in Iceland drink at the least, but young people in Denmark drink most. Of course, the consumption of young people by alcohol has been reduced, and there is concern about increasing bioavailability in these substances. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether the difference between alcohol liberality, the availability of alcoholic beer, might explain the difference between these Icelandic youths and young people in Denmark, i.e. The access is much easier in Denmark. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does that not affect you?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u103	The president still reminds us that every speech session is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u104	Mr. President. Now I don't know if that's the only explanation, which is why. A senator, i.e. to get access to alcohol in Denmark is better than in Iceland, but, of course, one is tempted to keep it and to conclude so. This, however, is very important, as it were. A senator introduced the consumption of young people. What we have accomplished in Iceland in the last 15-520 years is a steady reduction in the alcohol consumption of young people and especially of those of the most vulnerable age, i.e. between 14 and 20 years of age. In fact, it is shown in research that alcohol - related diseases, such as neurological diseases and spiritual diseases, are linked to alcohol abuse. Those who start drinking are at the most likely to develop these diseases, and each year we can put off drinking because people start drinking alcohol is extremely precious.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer was good at my judgment, and I agree with it. Senator. There are many studies that it is very important to limit bioavailability in the age group. A senator mentioned, 13, 14 years of age and early in his 20's. I am absolutely convinced that this bill is absolutely contrary to our policy to reduce drinking among young people, who are very important to do and we have managed to reduce the consumption of alcohol in that age group very much. Very good results have been obtained that are noteworthy, the best in the North countries, and I believe that by the bill we are indeed putting this result at great risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u106	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with what. A senator that I am very worried about this and may be afraid of them, such as the rest of my life. A senator came in, especially the relief of the advertisement and the law of alcohol abuse in this way. This can be dangerous, and it is evident, for example. as in the case of tobacco, the demonstrations of the product have an enormous impact on consumption. That's why it's very important, I'd like to mean, that we're going to do what we have to do to keep this demonstration from increasing, rather using the means we have to reduce it. In this way, we may be able to serve that group, and we may be told that we owe it to that group to make sure that the environment in which he lives is safe for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u107	Now the President reminds us that the Senate is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u108	Mr. President. When I look at this whole thing, there's a possibility there's an increased bioavailability. According to the World Health Organization Status Report on alcohol and health, if bioavailability is increased by 10%, consumption by 4% is increased. 10 to 4. Increased bioavailability results in an increase in consumption and a detrimental effect. Like what? One member noted that this huge comparative study of alcohol and health shows that there are even no lower limits of alcohol consumption without causing health damage. To me, the focus is on those who are badly damaged by their health and their families. This report shows that we need to focus on it. Do I not agree that alcohol and their families should be a special focus? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u109	Mr. President. Here, no doubt, the senator was referring to a focus. Yes, we should look especially at this group and try with every option to ensure that the one who has the greatest problem with alcohol gets the services and resources needed to help it. Still, the main issue is not to resort to measures that could increase in that group. I fear that this bill as it is put forward might help to add to the group that I and the senator are most concerned about. It is the people who, let us say every week, seek help, and may not be able to get the help they need. On that group, we should focus and try to help him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u110	Mr. President. I've studied the effects of prevention. It has a far greater impact on consumption than ever bioavailability based on the data submitted by the World Health Organization, which I have taken into account and examined. It seems to me that by means of this bill, there are five times the amount of alcohol paid for prevention and treatment that prevents people from drinking alcohol, especially at this delicate age, and, on the other hand, interrupting when people cannot eat their own meals. These are just the ones we need to grab. It seems to me that the overall impact of the bill is positive, because it is this huge increase in alcohol consumption that runs to the most needed. Can the senator see that while there is a slight increase in access, at some point you will be able to make much more of the alcohol - control fee, the treatment that people who come to someone else's door might benefit from? Then they're doing better. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, why not change the bill just to the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u111	Mr. President. I think if we're going to do some experiment on this, that's exactly what it should be to decide to increase or raise the one-sided drink. [[Up front.]] It would also have the positive effect that the price of alcohol would increase, which would likely reduce its consumption. That would be nice. I think the overall impact of the bill is burned to the point that as soon as this increase in alcohol consumption as possible. A candidate mentioned, will also be improved access as well as access to advertisements. I think from all of this, the final effect would be that consumption would increase, as the World Health Organization has pointed out, which would again lead to more problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u112	Mr. President. The reason I'm on this issue is because I've studied the World Health Organization reports. It clearly considers the extent of alcohol abuse, but it also discusses what affects it. They suggest that consumption is limited. At the same time, it is increased five times that goes from the alcohol charge to prevent it. We know that prevention is far more effective in reducing consumption than the prohibition, i.e. The price to raise. If you increase the price by 10%, the consumption will decrease by 4%, if you increase the bioavailability by 10%, the consumption will increase by 2%. So these tools are efficient. If we talk about the youngest age groups, at least In Iceland, at the same time as the availability in Iceland increased by 250 percent, the consumption of young people, i.e. Top graders, by the same rate. So prevention, especially as shown in the World Health Organization's manual, which is a strategical manual or a targeted means of reducing the damage to alcohol consumption - if you activate your children's environment, school staff, parents, etc., you reach this proportion. That's exactly what they did in Iceland. At any rate, it rhymes with what the World Health Organization says is active. Thus, prevention is much more effective and effective than limiting the availability or watching the cost. Now I know that according to this bill, five times the amount of money that goes into a public health fund, which, in fact, is useful. ... inpreservation. Five times that. - Okay. What else can you do with this? It is making good use of what seems to be the most effective thing in Iceland and is consistent with what the World Health Organization says will work, i.e. to activate a closer community of children, not to say that it is so inert, but to activate society. And then the other. The money can be used in public health funds and may even set up treatments. It is also reported in the 2014 World Health Organization report, the report on alcohol and health. That's where it says, by permission of the President, I'm just saying: ▪ The unique and families affected by alcohol use should have access to practical and effective management measures, and health care measures, to the extent possible, by the permission of the president. There's not so much to talk about in Iceland. If we were to add more alcohol to both prevention and treatment, we would be doing this. - Right on this. If so, we would be helping just one of the worst victims of alcohol abuse. This is in accordance with my entire ideologies; that is exactly what we should do to help those who cannot help themselves, children and individuals, and the families of those who abuse alcohol. I feel that should be a focus, if the idea is to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol abuse. This bill gives five times the money that goes out of the alcohol charge on preventative measures. THEY called for a few years ago with a better life, a campaign on their side, to get 10% of the state's alcohol charge for protection. I agree with that. There's something you could do in this bill, if you want. Allowing alcohol to be sold by companies or private agents will potentially have some effect on bioavailability, but there is no interference with time, only in space with this, and if you increase the bioavailability by 10%, the consumption by 2%, is extremely minor. But then there is money in making it possible for people to receive treatment. And what about the effective treatment for the FEE? I did research at the time because I wanted to make an informed decision. I learned that two years after treatment at the U.S.A., 50% of those who did not have alcohol were still consumed. That's a hell of a job. That's where we should put the money. But it seems that there is no wish to place extra money on public health funds from the tax imposed by the State's liquor fee. Only 1% of this tax goes to public health. Discussion of this tax was part of the cry of the U.S. In its time, a better life, than it says, by permission of the president: It has been found that 20% of the people drink 88% of the alcohol. The alcohol market, therefore, is primarily driven by the morbid abuse of people who harm their health, social status, and the quality of life of their immediate family by drinking. The same studies show that 2.5% of the people, all of us weak, drink 26% of the total amount. We tax the alcohol and 26% of that tax goes to the weakest people, to the weakest of the family. One percent of it yields to a public health fund. This bill allows 5% to go there. Why? So private people can sell booze. I'm not particularly concerned about that. But the overall effect? Yes, privates may sell alcohol, perhaps a small increase in bioavailability, which has little effect on the basics used by the World Health Organization. I checked them into the basement. But we get 5% more to the public health fund. If this is not enough for humans, why not put this on a committee and, as the U.S.A. said, that 10% of the alcohol costs, the tax as 26% of the people, that the weakest people go to a public health fund, go to the U.S.A., go to treatment, go to prevention? It points to alcohol advertising. Yeah, let's just say, take them out too. The World Health Organization points out that if you are involved in drinking ads, alcohol consumption is increasing. It's alcohol, drugs, drugs. It does not have to be advertised in itself, it will advertise itself; and perhaps by the most powerful means of advertising, i.e. A man-on-a-man ad campaign, which works best. There's advertising, they're not exactly in the media. You don't have to advertise alcohol. It's an ad of itself. It could be taken out. What, then, would be left behind? What is left behind is two: one is that privates could sell alcohol. And if private people can sell liquor, we can get a five-fold increase in alcohol consumption into public health projects. It could be brought up to 10% of the Committee, as the U.S.A. called it. So 10% of the alcohol charge went to all the weakest, treatments, prevention, and what needs to be paid for, now by getting this committee, would be that the private people could sell and possible access might be slightly increased. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his speech. I have no doubt about it. A senator means well, and he wants to put more money on preventative measures, as he says. But my approach to it is primarily an effort to do so in a direct way, different from taking the risks of increasing access. Hv. The senator concluded that the length of the appointment was not necessarily being extended. A- force 14. The bill shows that the pay period should not exceed 11 in the morning until the end of the day. 22 o'clock in the evening of a small sale. Today, alcohol is not sold in retails on Sundays, but in some places on Saturdays. It's my job to clean up, and I'm quite convinced that even if this is similar in the law right now, some would be much more likely to make use of the time offered in the law because they probably had some other business along. It's not required that this be only in special stores, but I expect men to be, especially in the country, with some other business along the way. I think it's taking unnecessary risks there, repeating what I said in answer to what I did. A member of the council before taking this step would be easier to start by adding to the public health fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u114	Mr. President. It's just never increased to human health. The price of alcohol has been 1%. On the other hand, there is a bill that says, "Let's go up 5%. " Why not, if that's the problem. A senator points out, to reduce this from 22 hours, to the committee? Use this as a trojan horse to get extra money in public health. In the end, you will get independence men and reciprocate to vote with the bill because there is a certain increased business freedom in it. Take advantage of this opportunity. Take out the alcohol advertisements, remind the time that is there so that he is in line with what he is now. The only thing we can profit from raising the alcohol charge, this tax to our weakest people, to serve them the same weakest people, is a little more business freedom to reform and the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u115	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has to respect it as a pity that I'm not an opportunity there. I see a threat in increasing bioavailability to the consumers, increasing consumption, and thus tightening the influx into the weakest group. That's what I'm afraid of. In Icelandic society, for example, the lack of access has given rise to tobacco, especially for the youngest group on sale and access, etc. It's worked really well. If you can draw conclusions on how it is likely that the Icelandic people would feel there, I would think it would even be someone like it, i.e. that if we make the product more visible and more access to it, people will rather eat it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u116	Mr. President. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) data, when bioavailability is increased, no matter whether time or space, 10% increases the consumption by 2%. That's clearly the way it is. What I would do is put this to the Committee and get answers, get a good analysis of how much it would have an added access to space if the business rights issue in the bill was approved. Then we can start to calculate the potential increase in consumption, and it can be weighed against the damage that can be prevented by getting added funds to our poorest people. That's what I'd do. This would be responsible to examine because it is a positive influence because it increases funding for treatment and prevention. It is impossible for humans to make informed decisions until they have considered this in context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u117	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for an illuminating and good speech. That's an interesting discussion. I can't say that I'm a special accessory to this bill, even though I'm drinking alcohol like a dog. Councilmen who have come up here discussing the dangers and the like. According to the bill's report, wine has become an integral part of a healthy food culture and the domestic production of alcohol is becoming a source of control. Why, then, must we change that? This situation exists today. I don't know better than that this product's access to a whole country in pretty good order. Of course, selling alcohol earns a considerable amount of money. The report also shows that people contribute to an alcohol charge that runs to human health from 1% to up to 5. Is it not much easier for us in this room, if we are talking about prevention and the like, that we raise them only to 5% instead of having to give it to the store to raise to 5%?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u118	Mr. President. Nothing's happening. No one's making that point. On the other hand, this case may be presented, and this increase in human health, treatment, prevention, and so on, five times an increase, perhaps going up to what the U.S.A. is calling on, the 10% tax that affects our weakest people, in caring for it and their families. This is what's available right now. This is what's on the table. We could finish 1. Um, the case goes on the committee and the committee suggests changes, implements certain factors that are more undesirable, leaves a little business freedom, that would be possible. Then it is very honest to consider, if we raise a lot of money in human health, what we get better, what it will do to reduce the damage that consumption causes, in turn, that the potential increase in bioavailability will slightly increase the consumption. When it comes to all over the country, I traveled through the country with the prime committee in the last summer. There was one place with a liquor store, which was kind of in the store, but it was only open on the day that I thought it was two hours, or perhaps it was in the winter that it was open for two hours. There are very different bioavailabilitys across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u119	A respectable president. In fact, the person standing here lives in the country and knows all this well. [[For example, do you know this?]] I think I know what place you're in the Northeast District. These stores are widely distributed, and there has been sufficient bioavailability in humans to date. I wondered a lot about it when men put out a bill like this and say in the second word that increasing access doesn't add the problems, but they suggest in the same bill as in a paper, that if the bill becomes a law, they necessarily increase the money to the fore.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u120	Therefore, the president aims to direct his words to the president and/or to mention why. Councilmen by name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u121	President. According to the numbers we have, it's clearly so if access is increased, the consumption will be increased. We also know from the largest comparative study of the past year that even a small amount of alcohol consumption is harmful. There's damage there. But the greatest harm to those who fail to get treated is to those who do not get the equipment they need, and their families do not get the equipment they need because of those who do not know how to handle alcohol. What is suggested in the bill is that the five - fold proportion of the tax taken from these people is to help them. That's why I think the overall effect will be positive. Yes, there will be small harm for those who drink a little more alcohol every day, but it will be much less for those who do not get their feet and their families. This is a chance we have now. Send this to a committee, get information on the harmful effects of this small increase in consumption in most people, understand, will counteract this massive reduction of effective prevention and treatments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Take it up, you don't just...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u122	The president reiterates the direct of his words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u123	A respectable president. There's been some debates and answers. Hv. Of course, there are positive factors in the bill. I'd take the sale outside, but there's an increase in alcohol charge and hardship at the opening hour and so on. I'd like to talk about one of the factors that has not been involved, and there is an increased risk of cancer in individuals with an increase in alcohol consumption. We know there will be an increase, like a bang. A senator has entered. Public health has been reported, but there are other defenses, such as cancer treatments and other factors, alcohol has been associated with an increased risk of developing head, neck, oesophagus, stomach, liver, breast, ovaries, colon and anus. These are very burdensome diseases all together, costing society much money. These may not be factors that come directly to the public health fund. Rather, we are talking more about prevention and watching our young people. But this large drink group has a higher risk of developing cancer. These are often people who consume large amounts of drugs that are difficult to reach and reach. How does the senator see this against that group and the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u124	President. Those who are most likely to develop these diseases, pancreatitis, liver injury, cancer, etc. are always those who drink most alcohol. If we have better resources and access to them for these people and their families, especially for the people themselves, and the opportunity to get treated, we know that the U.S.A. has the excellent results of 50% of those who go to the treatment and who have completed it after two years without drinking alcohol. [[Foreground on:]] Well, this is the information I received from the director of the United States in my time. Maybe this isn't the right information, but he gave it to me when we were discussing it. I talked to him personally. That's the information I got. At least we know that the U.S.A. has been successful. These are the weakest people. The 90% other go today to the hotel or to the state fund where it will be useful. in the health system. I don't object to the reduced alcohol charge. I want it to be useful to the one most needed, the people who are sick and who pay most of the alcohol tax. 2.5% of the population consume 26% of the alcohol and therefore pay 26% of the alcohol tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u125	Thanks for that, huh? Senator. I'd like to ask. You're always talking about, or why. A senator is talking about an increase in money to public health and the profit the nation might gain from it. A lot. A senator uses alcohol to go up regardless of this bill, can't he get a career? Will that be the case with the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u126	The president still reminds us that the senators will direct their words to the president or address each other. or with a full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u127	Yes, it is probably important to make that effort, and we who are in the discussion and talk about public health should. The system is now limited access or banning bioavailability at specific times and at specific sites, and people have to pay for the consumption of alcohol, high taxes, high drinking costs. However, only 1% of it flows to public health, treatment strategies, etc. I'm just willing not to touch anything about it and just go into the public health business. But they're not going to go anywhere. Why don't we just put it out together? FIE was 10 percent, let's do it. But it's not going anywhere. On the other hand, in order to agree to add more money from the tax system to these important categories, the treatment, the prevention, the public health issues, because they gain a small amount of money in return. I think it's totally possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u128	Mr. President. There are many stories in Icelandic legends that tell of ghosts that are laid down and that rise so quickly. This bill is like these ghosts in many ways. Here in the den were the ghosts that always rose up again and again, uplifted by the most powerful shamans and wizards. This bill, on the other hand, is coming over and over again because it is uplifted by interests, huge interests, commercial interests. The country's department store would love to exploit itself from the misery of others. And there are men and women in the hall who are willing to pay the way of these phone calls to do so. Today, the most incredible statements, e.g. the higher bioavailability of alcohol is not additive. We don't need research, Mr. President, to figure out that that's exactly what happens. For example, in 1989. was alcohol consumption per person in Iceland, i.e. 16 years of age and older, if I recall correctly, or 15 years of age and older, in pure wine - playing Lamps counted around 3.7 litres. In 2012, they were 7. The change was natural primarily the beer. In 2018, we have the last figures, and these numbers are getting closer to 9 liters. The person we have been arguing with has been arguing with for years that the increase from 3.7 to 7 is due or attributed to the tourist. That's not true. But it may well be that these are the last two, from 7 to 9. It doesn't matter. This bill is not like the bills that have been seen here before. They've been a little bit like a wolf screaming. It's like the wolf eating the whites. They're giving us these in teaspoons now. Now wine is not supposed to go to the supermarket, it's supposed to go to the cuddly shops that will probably sell these cute little cheeses from the European Union, and still sweeter sausages from the European Union, also by the ISAT standard, to judge with this bill. The point, however, is that we do not have to argue about whether there is an increase in bioavailability in the form of an increase in food consumption. It will. It has been noted that while alcohol stores have increased substantially, the increase in TVR has not been very effective. In a sense, this is true. Their numbers have increased in the scattered regions. On the other hand, people there have shut down posts that used to be alcoholics, as we know as older ones, so the increase is not, such as the increase. in the NTVR capital area, for the last ten, twelve years. If this bill becomes the law, the next thing we're going to do is take clean alcohol on a man for 11 litres. What, then, are we among? With Dana. With the British. With Germans. A study of the impact of these 11 liters on Dani and taking down the number of people in both places would mean that 200 deaths per year in Iceland would be attributed to alcohol, 120 new cases of cancer were attributed to alcohol. It's so amazing that in Denmark e.g. is mostly not among young people, not among uneducated people, drinking most is in middle age and older, educated people. The latest challenge for Danish health authorities to young people is this: Don't drink like grandparents. They have problems, like us in Iceland, which is a drinking of elders. It's a very serious problem. A PUBU is full of middle - aged and older people every day. Family assistance in Reykjavík tells us terrible stories about older citizens who are even helpless by alcohol. We've tried once. The result? We can do this one more time, but at least we know the consequences. In 1989, when we allowed the beer, people may not have completely resolved whether the results would be the same. Once here, there was always the hope stars in the hold who carried that bill. It was such a plot of manhood that they came here and carried booze bill once in the senator's career. But now it's not. The operator of the bill, perhaps the former hope star of the game, is formerly the highest. Social Affairs Minister, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who speaks for this bill first of all. One of his final jobs in the Ministry as a social minister two years ago was to give the prize of youths fighting against alcohol. Now he's changed the tape, and he's coming here and wants another camp booze. He said that he was a terror among the generals, and others have said things which want to know in others. I'm one of those terrible men who likes to make sense to others. I'm against asbest. I really want men to wear seat belts. I want kids in car seats. I like people to know. And we know that with this bill, if we accept it as it is now, this aftereffects that I just described earlier will come. The cancer event, the premature death, cardiovascular disease, all of this will occur. If we want to sign up on it, we'll just do it, somebody will. Hv. paritaprevir Hermes, Níelsson's son, told us earlier that a tobacco dealer was unreceptive. It's all bullshit. You see, it's not a bad idea. She was uncouth here before, but now tobacco is in closed palaces. You have to ask specifically for it, as when you went to the pharmacy in the old days and had to ask for something special that wasn't for sale at the top of the store. Now people really need to pay attention to buying tobacco. How has this affected us? It's reduced tobacco consumption by a lot. Then came the most exciting information in the past. The World Health Organization reports that a 10% increase in sales places results in a 4% higher increase in consumption. And I began to think, " What will the World Health Organization say if we don't increase anything? ' I wonder what it'll add to the drinking. Well, I guess that's a little less, considering those numbers. I believe in it. In fact, there is one article in this bill that I might wish to agree with. If the bill was just this one article, I'd probably agree with that, i.e. to increase the proportion of alcohol consumption in public health from 1% to 4, 5 or 10%. I'm ready for this. It's just that you don't have to privatize alcohol to do this. In fact, the matter entangles the private resources of a liquor store and then plans to collect more taxes from alcohol. Retail areas are growing naturally, and this makes the collection much more difficult than it is today. In his day, likely there, when this issue was not changed, three positive comments came. One was from the Trade and Service Association, if I recall correctly, one of the Huns, one of Iceland's Business Council, and these members said it was very clever. They also said: "It's the nature of the problem that if shops distribute alcohol, they don't start paying alcohol three times a week like the ATVR stores. They'd just give it back as the worthy tax period allows, every 60 days, plus 15, something like that. What does that mean? This would greatly reduce the financial resources of the state. There are collects, if I recall correctly, 18 billion a year, and return twice a week at this time. Then, at once, it should be taken six times a year. It doesn't matter how you get to it. There may be one good thing about increasing sales places, that would raise prices. Increased costs are needed to reduce the consumption rate. But the problem is the rise, i.e. The value of the increase, would not go to the state funds, but would go to the stores' pockets. It would not be to improve much prevention and other factors. I quoted the question. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son earlier, and I'm going to do it again because I agree that alcohol makes you happy in a certain amount, even though it's not fun, they're not happy. [[It's a little small.]] I know that Salómon said that moderate wine made the man's heart rejoice, but he lived at an average age of 40, if I remember correctly, so that they were not too good to eat only at that time. But when you let go, it's a serious matter. It's not a thing to have in the flash. Here goes the room anyway. A messenger I referred to earlier, and I rejoice over his presence. Nothing has been observed, not some created thing in the case of the transporters that encourages us to accept this bill. The public health show was handled pretty well earlier. I'm going to take my first talk in this matter to focus on my public health. In the 30 years since the beer was allowed in Iceland, the consumption from 3.7 litres to 9 liters, we have seen every sort of disease we didn't see before. This is where cirrhosis is seen and there is also an inflammation of the pancreas, which decreases e.g. ...the number of Dana to death each year, beginning to grow here. They talk about this drinking of moderation. The drinking culture is very different now than when people carried vodka pulses in their pants. Today, drinking is something else. Yet, domestic violence has grown rapidly. Men are still being knocked out on the East Street and out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u129	... less?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u130	You see, there is much more. Today, there are a lot more violent crimes in Reykjavík than they have been, and they are gradual. I say what to do. paritaprevir The gentleman in Níelsson's son, who calls out here, to read a report by the state police officer. That's where he gets it in black and white. We haven't been helped there by the drinking of moderation. More importantly, we who have passed through downtown every active day, every active evening, see that all restaurants are full. But the whole weekend party is exactly the same. This drinking and drinking of the day, one glass of red wine a day or ten or whatever it is, has been added to the holy party. It's just that simple. I'll add. It's not that unforeseeable, those liters I was listing earlier, come down somewhere. That's because it's a clean addition. It's a total loss. We don't even need research because the numbers tell us. Iceland's Office, with the permission of presidents, says: "Addiction of alcohol consumption has increased by 73% between 1980 and 2016. 73%. And there's gonna be a natural explosion in 1989 when the beer was allowed. And because they say it's not just the bioavailability that makes this, where's the biggest increase in sales? The rise in sales is not within the NTVR branches in the country that replaced the post office. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] She's not there. She's here in Reykjavík. It's in the capital area. It is in this complex - it would be nice to get a sound - an increase in wine markets. That's where the increase in sales is. This shows that increasing bioavailability increases consumption, increasing public health problems. Here, a fine lintist told a fine senator that the drinking of alcohol was a small part of an addiction that was largely dependent on the use of alcohol. It will not change if we bring this into the hands of a private member in part and then, because by increasing supply, we expand this group. There's more in him. There is not one person I have yet seen, except Hagar, Versailles, and Organizational Trade and Services, who have recommended that alcohol go to shopping, general shopping, not every party. We can count everyone, the land doctor, the Psychologist's Association, the Children's Passion. Everyone says, "Don't do this." We're supposed to listen to specialists, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u131	V.E.G. President. Of course, I've figured it out a long time ago. paritaprevir Sæmundsson likes people to know what they're doing. We're mostly working to make sense to people, but I think we're not good at it. There was a key sentence in the speech of a dog. A senator, about why he was against the bill, i.e. that it would be making others miserable. We're always getting closer from a low percentage that'll always be there, away from a controversial bill, it's not gonna change the misery to or from that. I can't see, boy. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, that there are some data, tells us that although this bill becomes a reality, access will automatically increase. Who says so? Couldn't ATSVR decide to reduce shops? Or is it just because no one else is allowed to run this kind of business than the state and that all profits go to the State? Is that the reason for all of this? Of course, that's what you ask yourself. And although this would increase shops and availability, how can we say that alcohol will increase this? Do you think drunks will be made because there will be more stores? Does anyone believe that? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] There's some other reason. There is some other reason why we misuse alcohol but how far we must go to attend it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for all these questions. I hope I have time to answer all of them, because I have an answer to all of them. Yes, misery will be increased because there will be more pain. That's what I'm talking about. This is going to be the same as we're growing the cake. There's more of them, i.e. If this bill becomes the law, which will get into trouble. No data on bioavailability increase drinking? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Senator. I could, for example. offer a series of reports from Sweden that demonstrate this. [[Up front.]] And what's drinking too much, huh? Senator? [[Up front.]] You see, there's a gray area. And the drinking we've been talking about, the daily drinking that creates cirrhosis, isn't it drinking too much? Yes, I think she is. I think so, yeah. Senator. Does it matter whether the State is selling or not? It doesn't matter, but it helps. I remember that in a previous discussion on this subject, people said: "Well, what about firearms and fireworks and things that are dangerous? To get a gun license, you have to take a test and you have to wear a license. So perhaps it would be okay for those who want to buy booze to get a license and determine if they were qualified to take this product and sign it every day? If the senator would like to suggest something like that, I might think about it, even though I may not want to go that far. However, we do not need to debate the increased bioavailability. And we don't have to wonder if it's just the 18% we always know to be a palace under alcohol, that's about what public health information tells us. We could, for example. Viewed what appeared in Politiken a few years ago, i.e. up to 20% of the population of Copenhagen, which is about 200,000 people, as a result of drinking alcoholic beverages every day. And we're not talking about drunks. A senator was here referring, we're just talking about Jón and Gunna, who doesn't burn every day, 200,000 people in Copenhagen, because of alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u133	V.E.G. President. There's always some claim on the people of Copenhagen. We don't know anything about this. But I've lived a while. [[Up front.]] I remember exactly what drinking was like here when the bioavailability was very bad. I'm not going to compare it with today's drinking. I'm telling you, the problems we had back then were much more than they used to be today. I have no doubt about it. We're just facing the sights that have been in the waves for as long as we could. It's very different to go to the waves today than when I was in high school or college, not even to equal, dog. Senator. And all the numbers that this and that will have a bad effect, etc. - and we're always getting older and we're always getting healthier and healthier with an increased access to alcohol, and then people are always talking about everything going to shit. I assure you, something of the best we've done in the past was to get a changed wine culture, I think it helped many of the man. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u134	V.E.G. President. I tell you, I've had a little more experience in drinking more than that. A senator, as I am considerably older. But walking into a swellhouse today or 40 years ago - I don't see much difference. I may be in the field longer than what. Senator. But numbers like I said, as a boy. A senator's challenge - the people of Copenhagen - comes from an article in Politiken. The newspaper is now about as marked as the Mogg, which I know is why. A senator reads an appeal. We don't have to question these sources, and we know, as I say, that increasing access creates greater consumption. It's been demonstrated here since 1989. I'm a little like a lab rat, I'm willing to eat the same cheese twice if it's electric, but not the third time. We're not supposed to make the same mistakes over and over as we're doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u135	A respectable president. Yeah, I think it's an opinion. The senator on the bill is out of the question. Several times, in 1989 the year was mentioned as "whisper. " A senator apparently considered himself a sort of an acoustic crevice in Iceland's history. I'd like to follow that question. A senator whether we can expect it to come from him a bill to forbid beer and even limit alcohol again at restaurants - in my youth, there were many restrictions - and even that the council contributes to the state's alcohol store, or Vienna, selling only one kind of red wine, and the kind of evil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Especially the first question, an old acquaintance, was asked by a senator. I remember. paritaprevir Busts the Brynjar of Níelsson asked me a few years ago, where the bill was passed, whether beer should be forbidden. [[Up front.]] But now I'll give it to him. A senator digs this down to my counter, which shows exactly what happened when the beer was allowed. So, that's here, and the increase in consumption is here. [[A senator points to a plot he shows to the United States of Congress.]] It's so daylight. No, we don't bring time back, we don't. But as I said before, we've made the mistake once. We don't have to do it again. Do I want bad red wine sold in the state? No, not at all. But also, I don't want a bad box wine sold in a bonus with a pig's badge on it, either. Here's a natural, like a rough one. A senator knows, full of people who know exactly what red wine fits with what food. But there is the point of eating any mess with this wine. They want to import all kinds of meat products that are full of antibiotics, but if you can wash them down with good red wine, it'll just turn around and count. I don't think so. But I say again: The increase in sales right here is not going to add to our culture. She's not going to add anything. She'll add the misery, as I said before. People's health is getting worse. It's not from any of the nations I mentioned before, Germany, British, Danir, survives about that. Six years shorter than among Icelanders, i.e. The average in these countries. Because we're getting older, and so on, why make life worse by adding these 20 types of cancer and all that goes with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u137	A respectable president. I don't want to minimize the problem of alcoholism, and I realize that alcoholism has been a national disease in Iceland and that there is not a family in this country that has not been exposed to the disease. I want to go inside. A senator's opinion on whether he really thinks it is so in the past, before beer came into the past and increased consumption of wines, is that the violent drinking of drinks on weekends, the drinking of counsel and slander, and brought disaster upon himself and their families with a violent drink - whether he really believes that the general condition of drinking culture was more desirable and better than the drinking that is currently practiced with all the problems, certainly, the things that follow it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u138	V.E.G. President. Now, I don't really have to think very much about whether that violent drink was worse than the present, because the figures tell us that the situation back then was considerably better, i.e. At home violence was less; assaults were fewer. I've had quite a bit of experience because wine and beer in themselves make you just as full as other drinks, you're only reaching your goal a little longer. If they drink too much red wine or beer, they'll be about as drunk as if they had drunk like a bottle of vodka. As I say, it takes a little longer, but the goal is the same as the final outcome. So this so - called drinking and drinking culture that people are admiring here has merely produced an increase in domestic violence. It has produced greater violence in the streets. It hasn't done anything, and it hasn't paid for more disease.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u139	A respectable president. You're right next door. According to a senator's opening statement related to free sales of alcohol, the members of the Independence Party have generally been represented. Actually, I'm not one of the senators who's been giving that bill. In a speech about my time, I said that I was here in the Hall of Congress to listen to the discussion and to see exactly what my opinion is on this matter. I have to say the same thing now that it is kind of hard to take this discussion and let it help to form some point in the matter, for the discussion is an overwhelming deal in its graves on either side. A respectable president. I have to say that because of what I'm doing. One member of the U.S. Senate insists that there has been an increase in domestic violence in connection with increased consumption, and I allow myself to question the marvelous reality of that claim. [[Up front.]] I think the number of domestic violence victims who are reported and reported primarily to the police is responsible for changing procedures, rather than the fact that alcohol abuse is responsible. We can agree that alcohol is evil. Hv. A senator mentioned tobacco and demonstrations in this regard. We have been very effective in reducing the number of tobacco users, including those who use tobacco. has been shocked that tobacco is not visible in markets, but it is sold on market, and there are people with their own shops or department stores or other items that are allowed to sell tobacco. See what? So, in view of all the calamities that alcohol brings upon us, does a senator not imagine that it is a reason to sell alcohol in a similar way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u140	Mr. President. Again, I repeat that the figures I've taken over domestic violence have come from the police. Granted, domestic violence is being reported more now than it used to be, but in the past it may have been just something else in the police diary. I happen to know quite a few things from the police, to have talked about it with the police, and then it was called something other than domestic violence, then it was called home unrest or something else. There's nothing missing about these numbers being right. Scots are a different matter. There may be someone who thinks it's a hole, but what I tried to reveal in my first speech, and will enter more points in the next thing I think, is the public health effect. That's mostly what I've been talking about. There are these additional 200 cancer cases that we don't need, which we will have. That's medically proven. Increased alcohol consumption results in approximately 20 types of cancer beginning in the oral cavity and ending in the rectum and occurring at 18 locations along the way, breasts, colon, stomach, pancreas, anywhere. That's what we know. This in itself is not something we need to reason on. This isn't sitting in a hole. These are facts. These are medical facts. At least I do not have a conscience to make a decision in this respect that I know will bring these calamities to the nation. We're a little tamed or very many of us are accustomed to saying, "It's not a problem, you might take red wine with the steak or something like that, but it's just not everyone's in that situation, unfortunately. That's about it. 18% of the population usually unable to handle alcohol. They increase with increasing bioavailability. It's proven to be true. There's no need for holes in this. These are simply facts that we now hold. I hope we're all here listening to what experts suggest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u141	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator may not have heard the question, but she turned to whether it was a good reason to go with alcohol the way we did with tobacco at the time. The public health impacts. I agree. That's exactly why, proper President, I wondered about these things. Although I find much wrong with the government selling product like alcohol and the private sale on it, I pondered the public health effects. Right away. A senator reviews alcohol consumption numbers to each individual, so I also ask: Does that not affect the growing number of tourists in the country? I wondered what evidence is there that if I buy wine in a glass, I'll buy it from a private dealer around us, but if I buy wine in a bottle, I'll have to do it at a government store. Is there a great difference? [[The president calls.]] And when I buy wine in a bottle, does it really have some effect on my public health that I am buying it from a government store? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u142	It does not matter in itself whether the person who sells alcohol is a state worker or something else. That's not what this is about. I did not answer the question, Should alcohol be done the same way? It may well be a good idea to do so, to limit its bioavailability. Then we might get the same results as those with tobacco, i.e. You would get a lot of alcohol together. This would bring benefits to all, to government funds, to the health of the nation, to children. Who are they, e.g. who have in the past resisted our consenting to a bill of this kind? It's the childhood guy, the psychologists, the Medical Association, the surgeon general. Everyone has said, "Don't do this." I, as I say, sometimes I'm stubborn, but when everyone but the Fégörs, Hagar, and Business Council say, "Don't sell alcohol in all these places, I'll listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u143	A respectable president. I'm going to be rather brief, and I'm most likely to react to the talks I've heard so far. This evening there has been reports of an increase in alcohol consumption, so I have two things to say. First of all, there are 51 shops at the NTVR level. Over 30 years, the number has increased four times, and in comparison, the low - store store bonus runs only 32 stores. It is therefore easier to get access to alcohol at the ATSVR stores than it is to get into a bonus. Second, if you are concerned that after the bill, special stores with wine will rise at every corner, the state itself will close down its own special store, which is the private store. Then concern for young people has been cast out, with growing consumption of young people following this bill. I reiterate that the consumption of alcohol by young people in recent years has greatly diminished, and this is because of increased education among this group and fortification. There is no evidence that shop workers in particular are less good at examining IDs than government employees, so there is no evidence to suggest that the availability of alcohol by young people is actually easier. In addition, it is more likely that private surveillance will become harder, more dependent on them, and therefore their surveillance role will be taken seriously. The absolute bioavailability of alcohol has increased by 2500%, whether with more HTVR or more alcohol stores. If the bill is so opposed to an increased bioavailability, I have to ask: Is it a policy list? Councilmen shutting down any of the number of branches opened in recent years by ATSVR? Is there any good hope that there is no liquor store in Flatty or Bolungarvík? Would they object just as strongly if they had to open an ATSVR there? Where were such objections when the other camp was opened? I simply think that the real intentions of the bill are not to protect human health, that they would protest the opening of the ATSVR in various parts of the country or used for their closing. It seems to be that the state simply cares for the business, just because. It's far more about princely care than public health. A respectable president. Child custody never gets along well. I'll leave it to you after two previous seminars they said when a discussion came up on whether a beer should be allowed in Iceland, but it's been done in the Senate case earlier this evening, by permission of a president: ▪ I am extremely suspicious of allowing beer in this country. I think it would make drinking habits worse, and even worse. leads to drinking at work So said Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, former senator and president. Svavar Gestsson said, with the permission of the president: '- '...they're still asking to look into their minds before taking on the responsibility of pouring alcoholic drinks upon the Icelandic nation.' But the Icelandic people did not bathe in their beer, and they did not start drinking at work, at least not those who had not started at the time - and yes, this is a reference to the monastery. It was claimed to be. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's before the sale of beer was accelerated when the beer was allowed. In fact, it wants so much fun to sell a beer-like consistency at the same time. This bill contains a measure of justice. According to the bill, contributions to public health will be made five times as many as five times as possible to the State to promote education, a tool that has been shown to work despite increased access to alcohol. But education does not go out of the way of knowing people. It goes on and on that people can be conscious of themselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Child custody is not getting along well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u144	Mr. President. I think there's some kind of misunderstanding. A senator said I was drinking more beer after 1989. I said more alcohol. Beer was not sold here in 1989. He was smuggled here, however, but there are no numbers. Hv. A senator uses statistics from the surgeon and the World Health Organization that say that there is an increased availability of alcohol. I'd like to know what information is. A senator has no WHO, and as a surgeon, he does not have. Then I too would like to ask. Senator: Why is it important to start selling alcohol at more special stores to increase your contribution to public health? Can't you just do it once, like I said before? If all the articles in this bill were taken out other than promoting a public health fund, I would agree. So I ask. The senator: Is it necessary to assign private partners to sell alcohol to increase education, prevention, and payment to public health funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u145	It is possible to do so. There is good reason to increase the Kingdom's contribution to public health and to the preservation of this subject. But I'm pretty good at doing this with this. What I meant when I said that alcohol does not necessarily need to be increased is that the state itself can shut down its special goods and stores that are open to special shops. Thus, bioavailability would not really increase. I believe private control of alcohol stores is the same as it is in the state today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u146	V.E.G. President. In words, "head." A senator has just said that the same freedom is the death of another man. So if the freedom of the private bath is to be increased, the government will withdraw. Is that the point? Is that necessary? Why should the State withdraw? The Kingdom is now selling alcohol in several places. They have not increased where the people are most of them. As I pointed out, the number of post offices has increased. So the overall supply of ATSVR stores is in itself, if you add these two things together, being in a similar format now for 20 years or so. I'm going to ask you again, "What's the background?" The senator of what the World Health Organization does not have, that the surgeon does not have, about increasing sales status and increasing availability that wine will not increase drinking?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u147	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, as I said in my speech, I simply believe it is a prince's business that the state does not have a patent license to sell alcohol. However, the government can shut down its stores if it feels that alcohol use is increasing, and private liquor stores are like gorbets after the bill. It is also proper to point that the State has tried to meet demand. When the spongy shop was closed, everything went crazy. The store was then reassigned two weeks later. The Kingdom has not stopped these stores simply because it does not want to. I think private people have just as much business in this particular market. However, the Kingdom can try to stop many of the individual shops if they want to, by closing their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She discussed the relationship between bioavailability and increased consumption, and she refused to agree that a causal relationship was established long ago. But let it lie in between things. Now it's in the bill to allow for advertising on alcohol, according to the bill. Then I'd like to ask the senator, "How would you do that? " A senator will respond if it was for the council a bill to allow advertising on tobacco?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u149	A respectable president. The situation is simply that today, with the appearance of social media and Internet media, etc., advertising tobacco and alcohol is already being published on a large scale. As a result, we cannot match the current international legislation of this particular channel. At least we have not been able to try to stop it. On the other hand, the bill allows alcohol to be advertised to specific requirements, including to inform and instruct about the harmful effects of alcohol. I believe that there is an act of justice in itself, while advertising that does not contain such proselytism is already on the loose in community media.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u150	Mr. President. There is a certain problem with the senator, that I think. From the same logic, for example, we should to stop with the maximum speed rules because there are so many violations of that law already going on, we're not doing anything about stopping them, and then we must stop them. Of course it's not like that. It is the government's job to set rules, to ensure that we do what we can, let's say, to improve our nation's health, to increase the nation's probability of getting into adulthood without being exposed to unnecessary pressures, and particularly not to the harassment that is known to cause health problems. That's where I think the Senator's on the wrong track. We are not as a society prepared to go on a significant scale to raise the challenge of health injury, and it is not our role as a legislator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u151	A respectable president. It was an interesting metaphor with the speed drive. The fact is, however, that we can influence national legislation here in Iceland, but we cannot influence rapid driving legislation in Denmark, the United States, or other countries, as well as advertising on community centres where other laws apply, where alcohol advertisements are authorized. [[Up front.]] No, no, no. Senator, we are not to leave laws for ourselves to other nations, just as they should not leave laws for us. However, we can fight this problem with increasing prevention and education, and the advertisements we publish contain good information about the harmful practices of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir She won the Sigríður of María Elis Egilsdóttir for her speech. I think most of us would reasonably agree that alcohol today is quite possible. I wondered, because there has not yet been an answer in this discussion: Why do we need to change it? It would be good to know. Precinctism was introduced earlier and so on. If you run over this bill, it's suggested a change to 20. The alcohol, the shopping, the telecommunications. There's a lot of teams that most of us know, if we read them, we've had alcohol. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's enough to look in the mirror to see what that means.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u153	Yes, why change the current system since there has been a significant increase in bioavailability? As I said in the speech and answer before, it is simply a prince's case in my opinion and clearly those who offer this bill and want to support the government's not to have a patent to sell this product. Privates should be able to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. So I'm now entering what I was trying to get out of my mind earlier at the end of the previous answer to custody. It's listed a few in 20. ., what may and what may not be related to alcohol, and I'm not going to go over it any more. Does the senator count this text to 20th degree? Don't fall under custody?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u155	Actually, it's a good question, I admit it. However, in this particular point, I have to say that there are some factors, including those, to which certain viewpoints are weighed. Preservation and educational effects. The prophylaxis effect is observed including in this specified article, for example. It is forbidden to focus alcohol advertisements on children or young people, and children or young people should not be shown in such advertisements. I think it's just an improvement and, in fact, the principle of prevention in itself, as well as other factors in this particular arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u156	President. I don't think I'm laughing. I must express a feeling of great disappointment by speaking at each time. Senator. Allowing themselves to be called on by the anxieties of alcohol abuse, by the effect on people's health, by the influence of people like me who have had to seek help with alcohol abuse, to take care of one board anything that is contrary to their speech. A Christian who is hypocritical is greatly disappointed. Counts 'em out. A senator that others who have expressed the same anxiety that has been undergone during the discussion today are also hypocritical? Counts 'em out. A senator who is a surgeon, an U.S.A., more public health groups display hypocrisy and are stuck in any prince's hand that the State must stand in a proper sale? Or is it empty - speaking in a serious matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u157	I'm sorry my speech didn't last. Senator. Worried about the increased consumption of alcohol is legitimate. You can fight the increased consumption of alcohol with increased education and prevention, and I fully accept it. In terms of what I called hypocrisy, I was referring only to the hypocrisy of members of Congress in this room, not to the surgeons or other offices, since members of the council have had in their hand the extra access to alcohol by calling after the NTVR stores but do not keep quiet while more and more camps were opening all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u158	President. A respectable senator has not watched the national press for decades if he believes that there is no increased access to alcohol within the ATTVR. This has been discussed quite a bit in the community, and I'm sure that some here have participated in it. One word suggests an increase in alcohol advertising. That's what they do on the bill. It refers to social media, networks, and all that. Sources of advertising in the Icelandic media increase advertising for alcohol. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that no one spends money on advertising just like that, but does he do it in an effort to increase the sales of his product? In the other word, others are accused of hypocrisy because they refuse to take greater precautions. Here, a warrant is given to increase sales with one hand, while the other is beaten with the breast, saying that there is a need for prophylaxis. Maybe it's hypocritical. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u159	No, no, no. Senator, this is not hypocrisy. The bill discusses advertisements and markets and puts on very detailed restrictions on it. I don't think so, for example. that the Morning, News, or other magazines could avoid the a- team where it is forbidden to direct advertisements to children or young people and that such advertisements should not be shown to children or young people. Advertising is being limited. However, it is the fact that companies spend a lot of money advertising alcohol already on the media where it is not forbidden and without any restrictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u160	Why should they not continue to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u161	That's a good question, but hopefully they'll spend more money on advertising in other places where the restrictions would be respected in the bill and the advertisements would not be directed toward young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u162	The president asks why. Councilmen should keep in mind traditional comments when they use a public talk and to direct their words to the president in general rather than to individual members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u163	Mr. President. I can't say that I'm especially glad that this case has arrived for another trip. That there is yet another trip we need to discuss this matter here, despite the fact that through the years, there have been reviews that indicate that the matter is not favored by those who have discussed it. When I talk about the matter, it's not because I'm pressured up here in a pit, but because the matter is repeated and reinvented year after year, which has been given a series of reviews that have been mostly negative. The people have also said certain things. Thus, talk about shopping alcohol and booze has been given tremendous publicity in society ever since the turn of the century. Likely, the Senate premieres of such coverage and of what is underneath. Their discussion of the subject that has been presented in the past is often marked by a talk about individual freedom and the free right to purchase alcohol at grocery stores or other special shops, as is suggested here, as if it were allowed in many areas and not causing any special harm. Of course, we should examine all the evidence and try to approach the matter without prejudice, as it were. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned earlier. But then again, I refer to the comments on the subject. The case has changed over the years, I'm not going to reduce it, but in the ground it's the same thing. I reviewed a fine article by Róbert Haraldsson, a philosopher who wrote in 2015 when discussing the subject at the time. He raised arguments by and against the change as here is. Which means you want to create a new mail account. I still think it's to people where he said them and can agree that Iceland's drinking policy is a rather successful experiment or a project to settle differences of viewpoints and opposing interests, i.e. to find a balance between individual freedoms and public health plans. So you ask yourself, " Why do members of Congress need year after year, and I say again, to go against multiple polls, where a large part of the nation says they don't want to change that form? ' All you need to do is look to the stories that have happened in the past and when people have been asked about the various media. Somehow, the conclusion remains that a large proportion of the people involved there do not want to do this. In my opinion, this is the bill on the basis of the store. Its interests are put first on the false grounds, in my opinion, that this is especially for the benefit of consumers. Why do I ask again and again why this matter? What's wrong? What is the problem that we need to solve by establishing new legislation? Is this a special problem for you today? I think we, as lawgivers, should face the basics and Senate proposals that we are working with and ask ourselves, " What exactly is the need for the legal rights that we are discussing? ' What is the need if people feel that this is the right thing to do? What is the problem we face? I feel that carriers must argue that the matter is improving, as it were. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned earlier, and not just one aspect. Must have to cover everything up. I feel that the evidence has been weak over the years because it has not, in my opinion, been supported by enough professional reasoning or knowledge. Especially not with regard to the international agreements that we are in or with the members of the community that should best be recognized for the treatment of alcohol and drug problems and the impact on families and communities. Can we allow ourselves to overlook a science that says that if this becomes reality, alcohol consumption will increase? It is the experience of other nations, and statistics tell us. I ask myself, " Do I think Iceland and I are anything different than other nations when it comes to this? ' Are people ready to say: Okay, I just think it's fine for our community that there's a little more booze there? - Not me. I don't think this is a matter of freedom at all. I think it's about cutting down trouble for people who want to buy supplies. There is no less freedom if anyone can go and buy booze six days a week at the liquor store, and more often if people go to restaurants and clubs. Those who want to get some wine can do it if they want to. As we often speak, there is no need for a more varied form of business. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I say again: It seems to me to be the interests of the store that will benefit from this, for statistics have also shown that there is an increased risk of falling into the basket like a bottle of red wine, perhaps some cheese, which is good for the store. Happily, this is one of the positive things that are becoming increasingly common when people choose not to drink alcohol. So the evidence that this is in harmony with modern times and is changing in society makes me feel unconvinced. We must agree that the process should not mean an increase in alcohol consumption. It is also a fact that few products cause as much damage as alcohol, which suffers so many and has far - reaching consequences in cases of excessive consumption. A large proportion of the health - care costs are caused by alcohol consumption. There will also be an increase in the cost of law enforcement. As I said earlier, I believe that reviews of the past have shown that people are not prepared for one kind of profit, while others are stuck with the cost of the consequences. The changes that may be made in the commercial drinking system are considered to be issues but that affect each person in this country. That is why I say again that it is important that the decisions made are based on an informed discussion of professional arguments. They can't be found in this bill. I believe it will have dramatic consequences for our community if this bill becomes a law. We need to look to moisture and scientific data. We can't say, "I don't believe in this or in that or that or that, but the argument has to be framed. " As I said before, the fact is that alcohol consumption, drug abuse, of any kind, results in an increase in violent crime. It's not just that they're on the surface or just because the police are paying more attention or something like that, it's a real increase. We know all that stuff. There's more to blame, there's more property damage, there'll be more police calls, etc., people accident, all those alcoholic parties. I think it's mainly about business contributions and support for the country's store and making it more comfortable for those who want to buy alcohol. The Norwegian model when it comes to selling alcohol has generally been centered on high taxes, government management, limited access and limitation of economic interests. We can ask ourselves, " Can drugs be profited from other sources of drugs? ' The World Health Organization report on alcohol consumption in the North countries that have been investigated, as we have seen, has discussed several times over the years when this issue has been scheduled. There are some facts in the national legislation on alcohol and alcohol consumption. There is a strong connection between taxes and restrictions on alcohol advertising on the part of society's overall consumption and e.g. incidence of cirrhosis. In the past, it has been suggested that many cancers are directly attributable to alcohol. The higher the taxes and the greater the limit to alcohol advertising, the lower the incidence of cirrhosis is alcohol consumption. That's a fact. It's just numbers. There is also a connection between the opening times of stores selling alcohol and alcohol, so shorter opening time means less consumption. The general conclusion is that the stricter the rules, the lower the overall impact of alcohol consumption on individuals and society. Research has shown that increasing prosperity, especially in the North countries, and extensive changes in economic and financial access have led to a large increase in alcohol-related problems. So there's something else underneath. According to a British study, alcohol is the longest drug, 72 points out to be 100. heróín followed by 55 points of 100. All the evidence, all the reports, suggests that it is not a wise decision to increase the availability of alcohol. When reviews of commerce and services and such things are considered, it seems to me that these are primarily the personal interests involved. We can talk about individual freedoms as one of the cornerstones of Icelandic society. Of course, it is also the rule of society not to walk on the freedom of others. I think there's too much under here so we don't discuss it objectively. I think it's challenging to refer to studies that have been conducted, not just to one, two or three, but to a great many. Those who argue that this should not be the method of research that proves best. A respectable president. The speaker before me and others have spoken in an effort to increase enormous contributions to the fore, using this bill. It has been observed here and said in reply earlier today. It's not so, there's nothing in hand as far as it goes; it's just spoken of it. The last time the bill was submitted, a change was proposed, an increase in proportion, and an increase in funding for prevention and education to promote human health. By permission of the President: ▪ At the earlier contributions of the bill, the change was proposed that, instead of spending 1% of alcohol in public health funds, the percentage would be increased to 5%. Our last part of our work was a change in the law of commercial income, and it was designed to establish a principle that would directly involved matters with financial contributions instead of making income markets. Was 7. Law of Alcohol and tobacco, No. 96/1995, requiring the rate of alcohol charge to be poured out in a public health fund for this purpose. A suitable change in this bill has been made, but its carriers stress that while the changing of the bill will greatly increase the financial resources of the public health department with the aim of promoting the education and treatments to more than the current harmful excessive drinking of alcohol. So here it is not a direct change. That's not said to be equivalent to approximately a certain amount, or a certain percentage of sold or collected taxes, or anything like that, it's just a recommendation. That's why I think it's a little small when men are putting on clothing with a clear increase in contributions to human health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u164	A respectable president. In the words of opposers of this case tonight, there has been striking objections that increasing bioavailability inevitably leads to an increase in alcohol consumption - that it is the Holy Truth in the discussion of alcohol abuse, that, in other words, we cannot walk past a liquor store without falling in and buying alcohol, even though we have had no idea of it. There's something special, especially in the light of words. A senator in his speech. She said: If you want alcohol, you can get alcohol if you want. Is that not a very vivid example of absolute bioavailability? It is good to consider the paradox in this case. During the past decade, alcohol consumption in Iceland has increased by 3%, while the number of tourists has increased to five times the country. In other words, at the same time as wine - feeding areas in this country, alcohol consumption has increased on every Iceland here. These are the unfashioned truths of this issue that increased bioavailability must include an increase in alcohol consumption. At the same time, we have also seen, and indeed, over a much longer period, that the bioavailability is much more than in the past decade, but juvenile drinking has quickly been fused. Does it have anything to do with the fact that we are talking about harmful effects from alcohol abuse? Could it be that in this area, public health, food prices, and so forth, we are even taking to heart the discussion that excessive drinking is not healthy? It is not the number of alcoholic beverages that dominate alcohol but simply our choice of how much alcohol we choose to use. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is very important not to discuss this matter lightly. There are no paradoxs in my case. I asked because of what. A member of Congress is the 1st circuit overseer of this matter: What is the problem we are facing in this legislation? I would've thought what. A senator would be pleased to answer, for there must be something wrong if we have to change this, something that has gone well. Increased bioavailability and increased consumption, transverse and all of this - I don't agree with that. A senator when it's time. What changes are needed when they are faced with the need for change, that they can get into alcohol if needed, if they want to? There's no reason why people can't walk around a liquor store any other way than just fall in there. It's a fact, and it's shown in measurements - I'm concerned with the language of those who support the fact that we're not quoting a little research, we're quoting the World Health Organization, we're quoting the surgeon, we're quoting parties we must trust in other matters. I think the members of Congress generally trust these institutions. Why do we not want to face the fact that they are right in this regard? There is no one truth at all, yes, it is true. However, a global study shows that increasing the bioavailability has this effect. I review again what the World Health Organization said when we last discussed this matter: The best prevention is to have it with the government. It's number one. Let us not forget that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u166	A respectable president. I have read the World Health Organization reports on these matters, and it is now a fine political gergon, which covers the various ways that can be successful, which, in particular, reduces the importance of prices and prices that we do and continue to do. What's the problem? asks why. Senator. There is no surprise that a pack of young people will be there. A senator doesn't consider business and business freedom to be here, but it's very important to me in this context. It is important to consider, when it comes to the position of the manufacturer at home, that the availability of shops is very limited by monopoly. There's only one person who makes a choice, and I don't think there's any special arrangement. The bioavailability issue, that is simply the fact - the empirical data here do not support this statement, as it has been during the past 10 to 15 years. And what? A senator in the hall can laugh at what he wants, but this is just what the Habitat figures about consumption per Icelandic show black in white, whether one likes that language or worse. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. You see, it's so important that it comes out, like a dog. A senator rightly said that this is on account of the store. This is primarily on account of the store. [[Up front.]] This is not because consumers enjoy something special if the arrangement changes. [[Up front.]] For one thing, the store needs to take on the money of this kind and the State to be stuck with the damage that needs to be caused by those who are drinking too much. And that's just fine. Then it turns out it's like that. A senator thinks it's okay to have one. I mentioned it in my speech. Some may feel that it is all right. I don't feel like it and say again and again with these little ones that are often referred to, that's a question: Can we correct it within the rules we have today, within the laws we have today? Do we need to put new ones? And does this have to go into the private sector to do that? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u168	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate's speech earlier. I think it's important that we take the discussion on these grounds. I'm going to allow me to say, a respectable president, that when we talk about freedom and freedom of persons, alcohol is a good thing in Iceland that I have no particular concern about the individual's freedom. He has full freedom to go and buy alcohol in many places, just because the State has opened up stores with alcohol all over the country and many others. On the other hand, I admit that it bothers me so much that we take one product such as alcohol and say that they can't sell it in bottle form because the state should do it, while we have very dangerous substances like tobacco, explosives, guns, all kinds of drugs and something else and let private people sell it, within a very specific rule of action. Then I'll ask why. Senator: If you don't have a little twin in saying that when you sell wine in a bottle, you have to be in the branches that are run by the state, but if you buy wine in a glass, there's no problem, then there's a lot of private people can apply to sell it and a lot more about it. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator to see if he has studied a good bill, my and others, No. 480, which also attracts a change in these fine laws but turns to the location of the alcohol shops. There I go, and a few of them. Councilmen focus on local planning and on their authority to determine the location of shops on the TVR. If this bill doesn't pass through, and I'm going to allow myself to doubt it in view of how the discussion has generally been about this, why don't we start discussing the organizational authority of our rural society in an increased way when it comes to decisions about the location of the sales facilities for alcohol? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, there are some things that can irritate us. I don't want to say that there's a twin in whether we buy alcohol at a bottle store or if we buy it in a glass at a liquor restaurant or at a restaurant. That's where we'll be for a certain time while we're in there. We can't take it out with us, we can't take it to our house and invite it to a meal there, or something like that, so there's a lot of odds. Also, the discussion on that plan, or I don't think it's a bit on that plan, that it's so trivial that it doesn't matter so much. That is why I ask: " What has to be changed, and why? ' I don't think it's visible. I don't think the evidence is there that spokesmen don't have enough power. I want to watch the figures we've got from institutions that tell us that this is the strongest way to cope with problems of consumption, nothing always, but sometimes. I'll just say it more like I ended up with my answer earlier, "If there's anything in the law that we have to fix, we can do it. But I don't see anything to justify taking this thing out of the government when all research says against it. I don't know about any investigation that shows that it's best to have fireworks in place. If there was an investigation on firearms or fireworks that said it, we'd need to consider it at the World Council. They are not available. I think it's quite different here. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u170	A respectable president. Perhaps I wanted to enter the bioavailability, and I was trying to link it to the community's organizational authority. I would have liked to have more planning in my community when it comes to this, they could, for example. it is decided that there should be no wine - feeding place in their rural society or no alcohol sales, if that were the policy of the local community, they would have more freedom in that subject. But there's something else I want to use time and come on, something I'm actually more worried about than advertising and anything else mentioned on the bill. There are indirect advertisements and certain normalisesation of alcohol consumption and, for example, drug abuse. through movies and various factors and other things, as it seems only natural for people to have drinks every day after work or even more, smoking marijuana or using other drugs. [[The president calls.]] And that is, a respectable president, something I think we should be much more concerned about here in this room than exactly what is being discussed in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u171	Mr. President. As a consequence, bioavailability has increased. A senator pointed out, but it is usually very well organized when ATVR has opened new stores. It's their job to do it. With increased number, e.g. in the capital area, it's not unusual to add shops to my opinion. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned the organizational authority of rural society... that's probably something the locals want them to adopt, not in. Farmers have to record it on their own if they feel that they do not have the authority to determine where and how the operation is going to take place. I remember when we were talking about the Smurfs and things like that, it wasn't allowed, and the County Society of Reykjavík took on it along with the police. We even discussed it here, too. The Normal Idea. Yes, it is considerable, and the social media and advertising and all of this, it is something we cannot cope with. If we can't control it now with the laws we have today, I don't feel that on this bill, and I'm promoting that we'd put our arms around it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u172	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for a very good speech. The first thing I want to say with the senator is that alcohol is not a regular consumer product. We should try in the longest of laws not to view such products as such. There is a reason why the arrangement is as it is today, and there is reason why 74% of the people said in the spring of 2018 that they did not want to change the arrangement we have today. I'd like to think about it for a while. A senator was last included in the talk, which was why it was merely a suggestion to raise money in public health. Why is that not a strong statement? Why is it not stable? Inside it I feel that there is some sort of misunderstanding involved in claiming that increasing bioavailability really has no consequences, but then in the word it increases the capital value of public health and puts it in parentheses as a suggestion. This is what I think most of all now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u173	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. This is absolutely accurate and accurate what I mentioned earlier, both by surveys made and by any reviews we have received that show more and less that the nation is not interested in changing the present arrangement. Although I am not going to speak on behalf of the people, these tests show that they are not interested. It was interesting that the first carrier did not answer my question about increased funding for prevention and education to promote human health. Of course, it can be said that there will be a certain ratio or the corresponding proportion. Despite the loss of market income, if to increase something - we know what has gone into the public health fund for the past few years. You could say that at least would have had to triple it, at least to speak it firmly. It's not in here at all. Emphasis on something along with a change - as I say, what's the big deal? That's something we don't know. 20th degree. it is said only that there is a provisional principle in which public health funds should put special emphasis on the study of alcohol as well as on alcohol prevention projects in the four years, i.e. between 2020 and 25224. It is really just what lies underneath it, but in itself it is not another prevention, nor is it really how to finance it. It would be interesting to know how. Councilmen have, e.g. Consider this in a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u174	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. To me, it's about moving the line a little less now but still firmly than we've seen it done in our previous donation, last time I was here. In 2018, I feel that we cannot ignore the fact that 74% of the people said that the arrangement was settled. It is the question if you are going into some kind of marketism, if you need to worry about not having alcohol in the country anymore. I can see that if this was given free, if I went exactly the other way I don't personally agree, you'd have to go to 101 to buy some wine with the food.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u175	Mr. President. This was one of the last things we talked about when we had a problem. A senator was being discussed. We who live in a scattered area know that we only have one grocery store. In this case, an exception is made that it may have been hidden somewhere behind something called alcohol, but it must be held far away. We know that we live in a place where there is only one store where school people work. Often, there is one adult on the watch with the school people, even with some activity in the back, and then these young people have to resist the pressure of socializing alcohol and may not even have their age. Even 20 - year - olds cannot be camped. They need to be with younger people. There are all kinds of things that I find unappreciated when it comes to, for example. to. Other than natural, there were one or two kinds of ale and two kinds of white wine or red wine, and other such. Everything like that is a different arm.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u176	V.E.G. President. As I came in earlier, this has been delivered quite a number of times. The main objective of this bill is, by permission of the President, to eliminate the government's patents on a little liquor and that privates will be permitted to sell such items according to certain conditions. The bill assumes that alcohol will be generally allowed to be sold in special stores, with food and beverages, not large markets and grocery stores. If we think of the consequences, they can be disastrous. I'm gonna let myself use that word. I believe that if this bill is approved, the next step will not be too far to be taken to further access. Alcohol is not a regular consumer product, and if it is placed in general sales, alcohol consumption will increase in many parts of the country. Putting the alcohol bill in the present suit is merely to consider that alcohol will be sold into a small sale and that there will be no effects is of great concern. If the bill is to be fulfilled, the consequences will be increased, thus costing society. Besides, I don't see how it's supposed to be justified selling alcohol into a little dealer like it's called. Freedom of business does not apply when talking about selling alcohol. Our present policy and the availability of alcohol, despite all its success, has been successful. All studies show this and the arrangement today is therefore acceptable. It is absurd to take the step presented here to go further, although it is claimed that there will be no influence in itself, which is also being proclaimed in a paper by the bill, by recommendation, to increase money in public health funds. This has to be because, at the same time, transporters feel that the effect is quite some. Indeed, alcohol consumption is one of the largest risk factors for human health and can have an impact on society and result in much social and economic damage. Therefore, we should reduce or minimize alcohol consumption, and if we continue to do so, we will in itself be supporting the health of individuals and the interests of families. It is demonstrated through studies that alcohol consumption is highly associated with alcohol consumption, i.e. increased production results in increased consumption. As we have had today, to limit sales to special drinking stores, it is a prominent part of prevention and maintenance of the government's personal sales costs less than the cost of selling alcohol free. It is also interesting to think about who and why it is so important to open up alcohol for a small sale. Why should this step be taken? The arrangement, as I have said before, has worked well. Although alcohol consumption has increased in recent years, it has little to do with what has been known. Recently, news came, and we must not forget that youths often start their drinking habits and can continue into something that we do not think is good enough. Limitations of access here have attracted attention in the large world, and the access control is good, and we are not going to increase the cost of society. He's already enough. It is special for people to look at alcohol, such as some basic quality, to have access to everyone at all times. The paper that follows the bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ To counteract excessive consumption of alcohol, it is important that education, prevention, and therapeutic management become efficient both professional and financially. At the earlier contributions of the bill, the change was proposed that, instead of spending 1% of the alcohol in a public health fund, the percentage would be increased to 5%.◯ At this bill's donation, the couriers contribute largely more money to public health to promote education and therapeutic management and to make more control than is now done in an excessive, excessive drinking of alcohol. Increased funds should also be used to study the people's alcohol consumption. I don't know any better than it's constantly calling for more money to be taken care of, and that's while we have an access control system like this for us right now. I agree that I will not increase any gift into a people's treasure, for good reason. That it compares to increasing access to alcohol, I can't understand at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u177	V.E.G. President. Here is another discussion of exactly the same. [[Up front.]] There's always a claim that if freedom increases, if someone else gets to sell alcohol, but the state, let's go to the side, we'll go to hell in the community. Yet, we watch all the countries around us, where only alcohol is at the next corner and in the grocery store. These nations live fine - and it's all right, it saves pensions. [[The point is, they're short-lived.]] I have been listening to this discussion for decades. We allowed the beer, the whole community was supposed to go to hell. We have grown shops. The only thing I see, and I've lived both times and even here in the city, is that the nation's drinking culture has greatly improved. At any rate, alcohol consumption in public has been greatly reduced. It's just in front of you. I can't see that the Germans or the Dutch have any more problems than we do. It's a peculiar claim that everything goes to hell. We don't have anything to do with it. Although we allow private partners to do business with this product, as with another legal product, access is not to increase. Bioavailability has increased and increased, and the more tourists we receive, the greater the availability of alcohol, more restaurants. Should we tell tourists not to come? This discussion is totally useless. Let's just let people take responsibility for themselves and drink their liquor whenever they want to, and let them come to where they want to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u178	V.E.G. President. I'm going to say as we heard in the hall: This reference is never too often said. I'm going to say I don't agree completely. A senator who spoke here. I'd like to say, "What do you know? " A senator of what it's like in other nations? What do you know? A senator, e.g. of alcoholic youth in Denmark? And using the word that this is some culture like to raise this to a higher level. I don't know better than Denmark's teenage drinking is not well cultured. This may be because the availability of alcohol is very good there, even if the shelves are drawn on Sundays. That's their answer. It is known that the increased bioavailability has increased. Thus, over the past few years, alcohol consumption has increased. I mean, we're not saying that we're using standard letters. We can turn it around and say to listen to what we say. General: What happens if we let this thing slide? What, then, will happen to the government alcohol trade? Where's the surveillance? Where are we gonna stop?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u179	V.E.G. President. TVR is very important to me. This is my favorite store, and I'd like to mention that I have an honor certificate, an honorary partner, No. 1, as a friend of ATVR. In itself, I'm not hot enough to think there'll have to be something different about this. The bioavailability's fine. But this discussion is upon my nerves, that it may all go away. There's never been anything on my side. Nothing went on the side when the beer arrived. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] No. The condition of this nation is much better after the beer arrived than before, I make it known. When I look at my generation, when she was drinking before the beer, and then my sons, there is a great difference, not in my favor. It's just the way it is. They asked me how I know what the situation is elsewhere. I am now a vast man, and wherever I come, especially do I know how to drink alcohol, how to use alcohol. I'm a special person about it, and I know exactly what it's like. I assure you, the situation in young people in most parts of the world is better - it can be some exception - and I don't talk about older ones. They may well drink red wine with the steak more often than we do, but otherwise, I think they're in a better condition. This knows everyone who's gone beyond the cliffs. It may be that the Middleclass never went anywhere. I'm just saying, let's not be so scared. My concern with this bill is that it is claimed that in the advertisement, these products will be harmful. I'd like to protest. It's not harmful, I think it's healthy for some people, although some may not be able to cope with it. I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u180	V.E.G. President. I don't think we can answer what came out here, but I'm going to try. I liked it when it happened. A senator admitted that there was no need for change because the access was good. That just tells me what to do. A senator in itself agrees with us who speak against this. So he exposed himself a bit with this speech. The results are not necessarily obvious in fighting school faults. The result can also be a longer time problem, so to speak. These have been referred to as physical sequelae, cirrhosis, cancer, and pneumonia. But drinking can also lead to some spiritual consequences, and as a community, there has been nothing particularly good about responding to them. It may be easy to imagine that many people who have strayed may have suffered the very spiritual consequences of alcohol abuse. It is also possible to think that so - called teenage drinks are decreasing, but I want to allow myself to say here that a youth starts drinking alcohol can often lead to further drug abuse. I'm going to leave it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u181	Mr. President. I thank the senator for a fine speech. I'm going to question you rather than ask you a direct question. I asked earlier in my speech why the candidates do not claim that those who are going to be free to sell this product will also be allowed to pay for the damage to which it can go and for the extra cost to the community. Personalisation of systems, including Regarding alcohol, in an article by Robin Room, one of the authors of the book Alcohol, it is not a ordinary consumer product, in the journal Contemporary Drug Problems. He there says that alcoholism is an effective way to reduce alcohol consumption and its harm. As I've said before, it doesn't matter where you go, it seems to be the result. That is why you need to ask: " What is our freedom in the end if it is in the form of burdensome diseases, stressful pressures on our entire infrastructure? This is one of the things I always think motionmakers pass by. And there's something else I think is being exposed here, i.e. that the TVR is not fired with the aim of profiting. In itself, she is not expelled with such a goal. She's making a profit. We even use it. to cope with the problems of society with consumption. It is not a major concern of ATVR to yield a profit. Is the senator willing to agree that if we are going to take alcohol into a public grocery store, the motivation will be disintegrated in this context, i.e. that it must be the goal of the store to make as much money as possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u182	V.E.G. President. Of course I agree. A senator here asked. The bill must be about some who want to make a profit. It was presented earlier tonight in a talk that it is somewhat unfair that the store should profit, but the government should carry the cost. I don't know any better than the U.S.A. will always be with its budget every year in October. FEW cannot care for those who look as hard as they want, so I can't describe myself adequately. A senator means that the bill is colored with greed. The profit is to be given to a few people who will benefit from, while others will be at the expense. That's the cost we haven't anticipated at all. Although we would raise money to public health, I'm afraid that would not be enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u183	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It seems to me that respect is taken a little out of the way of dealing with the product. Sadly, though she has too many negative traits, it is legal. We are dealing with financial costs, families, and children who have no control over situations they face. Should that not be part of all of this? It would be interesting to know, though I may not have much faith in it, whether the TV spokesmen had the effect of drinking alcohol on families, young people, and children. There is so much talk about teen drinking being reduced, but has the consumption of youths changed and changed? More and more have chosen the life - style of not drinking. It is important to examine parts of such nature that affect families, especially when considering their impact on children. I think it's a total time error. This was the first issue of independence after a collapse, and it seems that it is going to live forever. I don't really understand that we're wasting our time on such issues here when we could be discussing a lot of other important issues that I don't doubt would be asking. [[Up front.]] I'd rather not spend the time of the General and Education Committee on this. Over the years, when it has been submitted, it has had enormous space, taking tremendous time from other very important matters. A respectable president. I think it's time we didn't want to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u184	V.E.G. President. I agree with what you're saying. A senator's request that the valuable time of a global and educational committee be taken on this matter. I think the best thing to do is not even get there, being a member of the provincial force. Committee. It is true that it does not have normal consumer products, nor should we associate with it as such. We have been able to place fences in order to have wine camps, so to speak, we need to repeatedly tell people not to drink and drive after them. Everywhere we look, the consequences of consumption are obvious, and we need to respond indefinitely. It is also a bit awkward to expect to ignore all the warnings that have been said both in the country and in the outside. I am convinced that having the sales as it is today, as well as associating with certain stores under certain supervision, quality and prices, will also send a message. That means we're hanging out with this product, I'd like to say, with respect. We will be aware of the consequences if it is placed in a free mini traffic store, as it is being proclaimed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u185	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill to correct a change in the law about a store with alcohol and tobacco. Have many excellent talks been presented, and many things have been raised. This issue has been presented several times before, as shown in the report, at 144, 145, 146, and 148th, and then today. I remember that when I was in here a few times as a replacement during the season of 2013-2016, this case was going on, and I participated in a discussion about it. I'm not a spokesman for the field. I'm not against the rules. I felt that at that time in itself, it was a little small to throw the matter through, and alcohol was allowed to go to a camp because of me. I took that man's friend on it. But then I began to learn, to read, and to see what others said about this, the rest of the nations, the reports, and the others. Then I began to change my mind, for often it's what you feel you don't think is the right thing to do. As discussed in speeches, other nations say, this was a Denmark committee, and I know it's the same in Britain: don't be thinking about this, just start the arrangement just the way it is. We are so sorry that we had taken alcohol to a camp. We have increased problems, including increased drinking. This is an increase in alcoholism. Many speeches, such as liver disease, vascular disease, cancer, and so forth, have increased physical illnesses. If we take the money side of the disease, it is very expensive. Such diseases are very expensive. It's been reported here that if this bill went through like this, we'd be getting the money from the government and the taxpayers. So I began to change my mind. Actually, I didn't have a lot of opinions, but there I had a vision that it wasn't time. We have much more important to discuss in the High Council than in that matter. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson says freedom comes with responsibility. That's what I'm saying. It has also been said about forethought. We need to take a stand on this matter, and I am totally inclined to support the same alcohol - dealing arrangement. I don't think we have anything to do with taking alcohol to a camp, and that's why there's been evidence. If we talked about a litre of liters, we would be before the year 1989 allowed, in some 3.7 litres, and then we would go up to seven gallons [7 L] and then six gallons [9 L]. If the bill went through, we would go up to 11 gallons [11 L], which means more physical stress, and this calls for physical illness. The other is another matter, as was true of some supporters, that some may be viewed as cultural, extreme - curse, and so on. It's changed. Men don't have their bottle in their pants beating around the streets, just like when I was young. But the drinking has only moved to another place. There's more home drinks, more than what we've been calling a curtains. There are a lot of sad things about this. There's more drinking in the elderly. It's very sad to see adults run out of drinks, and it goes out of respect when you see them drink, I have to say it. I've lost my teen drink. Youths are better informed today. That's where the prevention comes in and it's okay. I'm not sure youths would benefit from shopping; they can approach it there in some way. However, there is another problem among youths, and it is the use of other substances. This includes increased intake of e.g. cannabis, and from there, more potent substances. There's evolution, and there's a marketing, it's only in the underworld. I gave a talk the other day that cannabis is developing into a wave. Americans have allowed cannabis in most of their countries. There's a marketing for the money sources who know how to mate the hook. They market it for fashion, consumer goods. It has been observed in talks that alcohol is not a regular product. I can't compare it to sugar and tobacco. Alcohol is a change of mind, and many do not benefit from changing their minds. I'm one of them. I'm just as good as I am. This was shown in reply and a talk by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son said that drinking alcohol would do him a lot of good. This would have helped him tremendously, making him a better man. I'm happy for him with that. Once, 80% of us are able to drink alcohol reasonably and readily. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson is inside the percentage. I congratulate him on that. I'm on the other side myself, private and personal. I'm inside the other 20%. I remember the time when I was struggling to master the enemy of alcoholism. I spent 20 years in that experiment but I've had another life in the last 25 years. I've been sober longer than under the influence of alcohol, and I strongly recommend that experience. At the point that I quoted earlier, when I first came in as a substitute, and this case was discussed at the council, I was a bit free of thought and did not want to be custody. But I'm not in the mood right now that we should make any change in the arrangement. I don't think we're here yet. The Greenlanders were spoken of. They have a serious problem with alcohol. There's a lot of alcohol problems in Greenland. I've sometimes wondered if Greenland is in a place like ours 100 years ago. There was a serious problem with alcohol 100 years ago. Then, for example. in the mainland, such as France, Spain, and Italy, and in those areas, not much alcoholism, where there is cirrhosis, vascular disease, and other such problems. It's so different between countries. It's cultural differences, maybe in some time frame. So I wondered if this bill could be put in the archives for about 100 years and then reexamine it and know what the response will be to the nation and its members. We haven't come to the point where we have to be considering this to us. I forgot to take my phone up here. I was going to read a little about the ban in my day. Over the decades, we have experimented with alcohol. There were 20 years of ban here, and the underworld was formed, which is not good. We then allowed wine, called the wine of Spain, during which advertisements were banned. Then, at liquor stores, the ban was permitted, but advertising was banned. As mentioned in the articles, advertising alcohol does not require anything, it advertises itself. Those who want to get close to alcohol have access to it as it is today. I don't have much more to say about it. I would've wanted the bill not to have been submitted. I'm not going to extend my case much more than what has happened to other speakers, that the reviewers and institutions who have discussed the bill recommend that it not go through. The only people who want it through are the big shops, and those who put up the bill. I'm not gonna have this any further. It's crystal clear in my head, and I have no more words for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u186	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The talk Sigurður Páll Jónsson. Hv. A senator reviewed the matter according to various viewpoints. But what I missed from talk. That effect was the case with a senator. A senator believes that the bill would be approved especially in the scattered areas of the country. As noted in the case of both whales. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún the Year's Árnadóttir and the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir could even do so, by taking the lead on the bill, that the situation in the country would get worse -- now I'm gonna come up with a novelty - alcohol cultured view. As a result, the potential for man to practice cultural diversity of alcohol has become lower. I want to hear what I'm talking about. A senator will review whether he believes that the impact of the bill might be otherwise in the country, and in smaller locations than in the urban area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u187	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! Yes, I certainly believe it would change the availability of alcohol in the country if this bill went through. This may be the case if a person had to start ordering another mail requirement or something like that. I don't know. I remember that culture, and that was a culture. When we discuss matters at the High Council, the region is often forgotten. The Great Rygavik area and the region will be a measure of the contrast. I'm at a point where this would change completely. I really can't see anything good in it, and how would that change be met? At any rate, it would be much less difficult, for all such commercialism has to be returned naturally if left in the hands of those who run it themselves. This would completely transform a local liquor store.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u188	Mr. President. Now I'm not going to become the man who's going up against the settlements and capital areas. But just in this respect, it is noteworthy that all the carriers of the bill are from the capital area. At least that makes you think about it. Then come to the other thing that I've been thinking about and wanting to talk to. A senator. It is whether the senator will see us in some way as a legal adviser to get out of this matter, to come out of it, to stop wasting time on it. There is no demand for this in the community except for a very narrow group. The senator and many other members of the council pointed out that it may be primarily among those who were willing to sell alcohol or those who were advocates of those who paid to sell alcohol. I wondered: Is the way to cut off the knot, if necessary, so as not to spend more time here at the council by presenting the case to a committee or something like that, and taking people everywhere into the picture, getting envelopes, etc., is the answer just to the case on national pay, as if we should do more often in other matters? Why not just let them say, " No, we're not interested in this? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u189	V.E.G. President. How do we get the matter out of the way? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's a bit of a tough question. It is crystal clear that research has shown that the nation does not call for this. We have that conclusion since last year or later. And because I was quoting the ban that I did earlier, it said here that it was in the National Order of Prohibition in 1908 and 1933. It is a question: Can we not go to just a national law if we were to settle the matter? I'm pretty sure that we who don't want any changes would be on top of it. Yeah, I think that's the only way to get rid of it. It is like an obsession with a certain group of people who present this issue for the fifth time. A national agreement! .
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-19-80.u190	In view of the fact that some evening has passed, and it does not appear that the discussion is empty, the president is now stopping, and he also assumes that a meeting can be held until tomorrow, asking for an extended meeting to discuss the main issue, a report on the Fishing Room.
