ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u1	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Education and Culture where they ask for every appointment to give written answers to panel requests. 223, on foreign travel by the Ministry, from Seystein, Sæmundsson; and on the threshing floor. Twenty-six thousand on the distribution of student loans from the Icelandic student loans, from State of K. Gylfadóttir. A letter has also been received from a health minister asking for every request to give a written application for this request. 318, about residence and rest, from Unit K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u2	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, foreign ministers, secretary of transportation and rural government, justice ministers and legislators.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u3	Mr. President. I'm afraid Iceland's drawing up like a cave of corruption in the eyes of the world. It is fun to remember that Iceland had a gray list because of lack of respect for money and that Iceland has 11 other countries, and Namibia is not among them. Some will probably remember the Panama documents, where the richest part of the country got their property away in order to avoid paying taxes as far as the public has to do. Finally, the ten - year anniversary of the collapse can be called to mind when greedy greed - seeking criminals almost ran out of land and all the corruption complex around it. In the United Nations, we have repeatedly warned of the mass of wealth that is too few. Now, one company is destroying Iceland's reputation if it proves true. They are accused of bribes and tax frauds, illegal behavior toward the poorest people in Africa. Does a minister not worry that a company that has been entrusted to the use of the nation's common resource will fail that trust and duty as strongly as it is now drawing up and can prolong our being on this gray list? Tells you the highest. Ministers that so much wealth can accumulate in one company that it can create both a reputation problem and a system risk for an entire nation and affect other export companies? Finally: Can be the highest. Minister would like to support the UN's move to raise the money to the district attorney and the head of the IRS to inform these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u4	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that it's a serious matter when the head of a political party steps up to the Council and feels that it is the proper description of our country that it is likened to a cave of corruption. I don't think there's any basis for such dramatic words and a description of our country and that it really is completely different in terms of the case we're going to take seriously, have relevant organizations investigate and get to the bottom of it. Regarding the way things are being done in this case, I think I would much rather present in the discussion the vision of this case to the view of the environment in Iceland and our view of what kind of nation we are in, not by any particular country, but by the way we deal with them, whether we take seriously, whether we act seriously, whether we have governments to deal with, to investigate and judge where we are, not by any extraordinary outputs of the members of the United States, which I've been able to watch with the last day, whether we have a whole business problem of fish management, which is going around the world for which the greater use of resources than any other fish, which I's more than any other country, we've ever found. I'm going to answer the questions, so of course I'm concerned about this matter. Of course, I am concerned about the reputation that Iceland and I can see may not be easy on, but it depends on how we deal with the situation. [[The president calls.]] If there's a need for extra money from surveillance agencies, they'll get more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u5	Mr. President. Some of these things? Over ten years, we have experienced one economic collapse and a recurring fantasy problem because of government corruption and inactivity. I'll tell you what's up. I'll give you the leak problem, Energy, the National Court case, the Panama Documents, the gray list we're sitting on now and, of course, the Samherja papers. I love to hear that. A minister is going to secure all the money he needs to inform us about this. But I find it hard to believe that the national secretary of finance and former prime minister will come up here and kill the case by accusing one political party of taking the matter seriously. We're talking about a systematic picture over the last ten years, and it seems so amazing that the Independence Party has always been close to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u6	A respectable president. It is not new that we plan to secure the funds needed to fulfill the role we have entrusted to them. We will do so in this matter, as we have done in other matters. Here's the gray list. Let me draw your attention to you. A senator's list of black lists exists? The list of grays is for the countries to be considered because they have not updated laws and have taken the course of action called. The Grey Art is not an example of corruption in Iceland. Senator, you are in confusion with that approach on that subject. [[Up front.]] It is also a lot of nonsense to me to say that it is the Icelandic fishing system to teach how the events have been in this particular case. The government cannot be held that she will not take this matter seriously. But we're going to the rottery, where the right focus is. It's not surprising that the United States is already in a ditch, talking about the Icelandic fishing system being the problem, and then you hear it too -- I guess I've heard about the fishing system - and, of course, there's one solution that the United States always comes up on every subject, raising taxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The fishing system.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u7	This exchange is over. The rest must be in the dining room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u8	President. By permission of the President, I want to quote a report by the Prime Minister on the promotion of trust to politics: The moral appearance of politics and administration is a key factor. Equally elected representatives of the public staff have access to public goods over other citizens and are therefore often in a position to take advantage of them in personal interest, linked parties, or in service to other special interests. A little lower in the report says, with permission of the president: ▪ Faith and trust in politics and government are based on the fact that the common people can believe that politicians and officials do not misuse their position. Also, with President's permission: ▪ The tendency to minimize personal contact is common, and in spite of contact with a language involved, people often rely on Jehovah to discuss matters objectively. However, it is important to realize that a person's appearance is of utmost importance when it comes to possible conflicting interests. The question, then, is not how much a person trusts himself but how he or she feels toward others. V.E.G. The marine and agricultural ministers have repeatedly made a great deal of their independence from deforestation, but they are still in much informal contact with the owners of the largest developing country. He is the former chairman of the Samherian Board and the childhood friend of the present director of the Society. Just last night, it was obvious that he was interviewing him in Castundi that he was clearly difficult to tell when he was talking to his friend and when he was talking to the director of the largest development of the country as a seafaring minister, director of the ministry as his man. President. I give the highest. The minister's opinion that it is important to build confidence in politics, a trust that is historically low, but is the minister in agreement with the writer's report that the appearance is all relevant to potential conflicting interests? [[The president calls.]] A view? That's one question. I'd appreciate it if the Minister made an honest reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u9	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. When you ask about the appearance of a dog. A senator will undoubtedly depend on who is involved, simply because the world as it is, in contrast with the world itself, is visible to us in different ways, depending on who sees it and who sees it. It's just that way. It may be that I find it difficult to distinguish myself from whom I am speaking as a friend or a partner and as a partner. But I'll have the words up here that I try to do it out of my best and best, and I'll take every comment that comes out of my mind and review it objectively, as I can most objectively, since men can offer in a tangible way information that I am in some way exploiting my situation or using myself in behalf of certain narrow interests. The fact is, I've been living in society, meeting people, working in the service of people, living and working in the Northeast standard, going through four elections since I came to a council and a reelection. I have never resisted to go to meet people, to my clients, and to put my works in their judgment. I feel someone trusting me, but in no way do I say I'm not a weak man. Who isn't? Nobody. I seek commission, and I look to the people I attend and volunteer for each occasion. Happily, I have been, and I am in a position to thank you for the great trust I have been shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u10	President. It'd be fine if it was the highest. A sea chief doesn't have to stand here and convince us he's worthy of trust. [[Up front.]] I think it answers the question I asked, if he thought his face was all that matters. I think he's answered the question with no, he doesn't think the appearance is everything, because it's very obvious that he trusts himself and thinks it's more important than the way he treats others. Samherji and linked societies own more than 15% of all bids in Iceland. Now it's got the highest. In view of his personal friendship with the director of the Society and its former chairman, one minister repeatedly said that he will tell himself about matters related to the Samaritan. But how can you make some kind of decision about your whole dinner system, for example. reduction of hunting costs, without significant impact on the precise number of enterprises associated with the highest standard. Minister? So I must simply ask, " How many times does it have? ' A minister would have to tell himself about some of the decisions related to fishing because of association with Samherja and association with societies? [[The president calls.]] How often? I suspect the answer is: Never. But it would be interesting to hear from a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u11	A respectable president. I totally respect my point of view. Senator, we just don't agree. I don't see anything wrong with asking about my skill or how often, never. I encourage the senator to make a clear distinction between the individual and the general inadequacies, there's a difference. When you ask about how you can meet a vote or a decision to pay for your hunting or eating system or the fishing system, it's the Council that puts the law. It's not the Minister who sets them. But if any individual decisions surfaced a minister of which he ought to conduct, I've declared it, I did it as soon as I took this office, that every time a case came up related to this company, I'd have my right to be appreciated, and if there was any doubt in those matters, I would take a seat. [[How many times...?]] It's never happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I don't think there's anyone in here, any senator, and probably no Icelander, who doesn't know the business of which the blind eye has reversed that when it comes to Icelandic company as well as other companies, they've been looking for fishing in the resources of other countries. In this case Namibia, one of the poorest African countries, is under. The blind eye has come to realize that in these countries no one can catch a single ton from seawater as different from bribing completely corrupt politicians. It's been left there, and the blind eye turned to it. How is it that we have a factory that has grown so large and so extensive that it reaches its scent in probably 26 teenage communities everywhere? I think they're even in Australia. I feel like we have to figure something out. We must realize that this company has made Iceland a huge amount of money, but at the same time it has been prepared so completely for the knots that it has even been closed to the way our own country is treated, our little rural society, the way the deed of the quatane is done. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says we shouldn't go into the fishing system that's so great. Of course, it's great to protect our country's resources. Of course, we can't stay here on our dirty shoes and clean up all the fish in the ocean, they need surveillance and maintenance. But what about a frontal saying and how we've been looking shamelessly at the way our little TVs are being wiped out, how we've treated them from A to Z? I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the sea. Now we've just been driving through a law here that's causing us to get 2 billion less in the state's budget than expected in hunting expenses. [[Up front.]] That's exactly the way it is. I ask: Is it normal for us to create a system around the development that makes no difference whatsoever what the nation receives because of providing them with access to our sea resources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u13	A respectable president. I appreciate the inquiry, but how quickly. Senators to inform, if we have a chance to do so, where, from the top of the claim that if any Icelandic company, whatever the case, is inexpensive in this part of the world, they are all based on the need for an Icelandic company to bribe the locals. [[Up front.]] It's a statement that I can't help but wonder to hear because I know that Icelandic people who are in business are trying to do it the best they can anywhere in the world. [[Up front.]] Enough about that. How is it that we have such a big business? I don't have any explanation for that. Businesses are large or small, mainly depends on those who establish them and on the staff that they can help if they are larger than one company. In this case, there are thousands of families in Iceland who are well worth it and have worked hard to build this powerful business. That's the way it is, and I don't have any clear explanation for it. This is not just the work of one man or a hundred people; it is actually a social project that has been built up in this way on the basis of a number of people. We're not going to ignore it, not anyone in this room, the impact of the U.S. decision-making in the country, corporate business, etc. We often communicate on this. I'll give you a call at what. Senator, there are none of the rural areas in this country to be destroyed. This has increased in the country, despite the fact that many of us in this country wanted to see more expansion there than has been so. Right away. A senator here asserts that the changes in fishing fees have led to their dropping - less return, I'm just going to point them out. A senator of what has been repeated during the discussion, that if the law had not been changed, the reduction in hunting costs would have been 5 billion instead of 2 billion. [[I'll take it back.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u14	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. He says that he is increasing in the country. Yeah, it's probably because people fly there because they can't afford to rent or stay here, it's so expensive to be in the capital area that people take over. He speaks of thousands of families building a business, truly, as I pointed out in the previous talk. The 7 billion, 5 billion, whatever, that's two years since we got 11.3 billion in hunting costs of the resource. We are leaving 7.1 billion estimated on the budget bill when it was recommended in the fall in 1st. Um... just between the 1st and the 2nd. we're down to 5 billion bucks. It's the Lawgiver setting up a new rule to stop it. It doesn't mean that if we hadn't put new songs, it would have dropped even more. It was just supposed to be a different law. There were rules that were going to work. Now, there is indeed an opportunity to demonstrate it and prove it, and all we can do in any sense is to ensure a provision of resources into the Constitution, as the nation has repeatedly called. I hope we can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u15	A respectable president. Yes, it is all good and blessed and productive if the whole country is destroyed, but at the same time it is full of rain. A member of the council that the people flee the capital capital because they cannot afford to live there. Where on earth does this 360,000 people live if they are not able to live in the country or the capital? I'll ask for a slightly clearer approach to this subject the next time we discuss these things. If I was not mistaken, I noticed in my first talk. A senator said that we changed the law to lower the fishing costs, which is not right. However, she rightly admitted that the Law should have been different. That's exactly right, there were conflicting opinions. Our findings here in this hall, democraticly granted, were in order to shift the influence of the politics farther from the decision of hunting costs and to make them take better account of each of their productions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u16	Mr. President. Lights and the hour reported on the terrible crisis of a Icelandic company in their search for resources in Africa, a very direct report that calls for a thorough investigation by the government of the United States. They have been put in this symposium, in connection with a so - called gray list, that, of course, we shouldn't be at home, all of us would see. I think it's really hard for everyone to see that we don't belong on that list and that there's every reason for us to take this case very seriously, not just think of it as a single incident, an exception, an exception. There is evidence that in many areas pots may be broken. That is why we need to take such matters very seriously. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, as we are committed by many international contracts and are under observation, and will in particular be following this case, whether or not they feel that our institutions are equipped to handle such issues seriously. At the same time, I'd like to introduce it after the Department of Justice report on why we're on the gray list that was supposed to be arriving last week, at the latest this week. Is she coming today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator will agree that the matter is serious, and of course we will take it seriously, of course. You know, about FAFF and the money bullshit thing right now. A senator refers to the end of the report. I hope I can bring her in here in the next few days. I can't say that we belong on the list because of the news transfer that was here during the days. A small comment was made to our system in the FAFF report, with particular attention to three of the factors currently available. That they are being worked out and put to completion of that work. Some of them are already done, and what may have been seen there, if you can tell us what we watched is that the funds seemed to be going through accounts in foreign banks. Of course, we will do what we can to make all our organizations ready to handle this matter like others. I think our institutions are fully equipped for this, and if they are not, we will certainly help.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Whether or not we have the right or the wrong to be on the many gray lists, I'll leave things in place. I usually think there's a lot of stuff going on in technical defenses. The bottom line to my questions is: Is there any particular reason for us Icelanders to believe, for example? Such reports, in view of what we have already learned, do not engage in activities contrary to Icelandic law and regulations that go against the international commitments we have accepted? What I'm calling out to: Do we generally take seriously enough evidence that Iceland does not always have the best children?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u19	A respectable president. The available evidence in this case, although it is difficult to evaluate it, shows in no way that an Icelandic rule has failed, and if so, it will be considered. But Namibia or Norway are not on this gray list. According to the news we watched, it seemed that money was done there, and I drew attention to the fact that they have that regular, good, and valid certificate from FAFF. Of course we take this seriously, but I don't think there's any reason to talk our system down. We've done everything in our power to respond very quickly to the indications that have come along, have worked hard to keep our systems in order, and, of course, we all want them to work. But there is no need to speak them down to unnecessary levels. On the other hand, we want both the systems, but also the systems that deal with these issues, a case that has come to the local district attorney and goes through our legal system, a fortress to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u20	Mr. President. There is a time when people can hide behind surprises and shock when it comes to a discussion of corruption in Iceland. It is wide and well documented, and it has to do with what is next unrepeated. The political barrier to corruption is a characteristic of the government of the United States. The whistle on Samherja's operation in Namibia and Angola, revealed in the news broadcast of Kaks and the Hour, is striking. There is evidence of planning abduction of the resources of another nation, proof of huge, regular payoffs for government officials and politicians from a flag-based company that has built its wealth on the use of Icelandic resources. The company builds its wealth on a fishing system that encourages such behavior. The congregation of the few is the result of a new political connection to trust that ownership, minimize the payment of a common fund, and maximal profits. It is a mistake to look past the source and root of the problem, but it is pointless for members of the council to come up here one after another and describe the shocking corruption of the Samherja language. We all know that. What people now want to hear from us is what we will do about it. We need to look at certain facts. At least A few years have been known that something abnormal was going on in Namibia. The news has been spread by the media. The failure to respond to the logical suspicion must be answered. It is also easy to see from companies such as Cyprus and Panama that a lot of Icelanders own companies in those countries. This is not illegal, but there are few legitimate reasons for doing business in the countries. We must not be so naive in thinking that the use of taxes has an uncontaminated purpose. Two kinds of elements in the world have reached complete internationalization, big business, and organized criminal groups. There are times when the lines are blurred. Governments have been struggling to deal with the criminal behavior that is being practiced under the shelter of international secretism. For this reason, there is one reason, no will. Many countries deliberately promote indiscriminate and bad conduct. They profit from it, sometimes the economy of the country, and more often the political class. Political corruption is not merely a bribe. More abundant bioavailability, strength, power, etc. ... isfollowed. By permission of the president, the report of a group of prime minister's work on trust in the government states: ▪ If criticism is not handled and not taken seriously, it is a measure of corruption. Depravity must be taken in the face, not just a proven corruption. About 60 countries around the world are keeping international corporations secret. The International Work Group on the Action Against Terrorism and Funding, FAFF, is the best attempt by the international community to control that behavior. Since the spring months of 2018, the team has been directly at Iceland's recommendation on law errors, regulations and regulations, and the lack of money to fight money. Iceland was recently put on a grey list for failing to respond well enough. Samhera's work in Africa puts Iceland's being on that list in a new and more serious context. We now know that a bank of New York Mellon stopped transfer from a kypversks society's bank connected Samherja shortly before DNB closed the business of the same company because of the risk of money laundering. Four days later DNB closed NOR in Samherja's Association on the Marshall Islands. In five years, the Cyprient Society sent about 3 million euros to a Russian national service in Common World Trust Ltd., which has been involved in money fraud. It's not long to think that there's a link between this operation and the fact that Iceland is now on a grey list. President. We have questions about what we will do to cope with the obvious problems and weaknesses evident in our present situation. What will be the reaction of governments, governments, and Generalis? There is a need to increase the level of transparency required by the Icelandic people who have foreign possessions. capital transport needs strong and effective monitoring. There must be a legal arrangement for unveiled protection and for the security of those who expose crime. We must expand the definition of low taxes and publish a guide list of such countries and give a notification to the tax authorities on direct and indirect stakeholders in low taxes countries. There are, of course, many other things to do, but it is a primary poison. We can try to take a deep look at this subject, and it is time for us to do so. I'm going to thank the highest. Prime Minister for responding promptly to my request for this special discussion. She matters. We know of this corruption. We can't pretend we're innocent anymore, and we don't have to pretend to be surprised. What we have to do is fix it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for taking the initiative in this important discussion followed by the striking film, which was based on data on the interaction of one of Iceland's largest manufacturing companies with the political authorities. Clearly, it provides strong evidence that the crime has been committed. That's why it's important, and I'd like to start by saying that this case is being investigated by the local district attorney. It is very important that there be good action there and that all the facts of the matter be drawn out. Of course, governments will ensure that governments will have full scope for the investigation of the matter to be done with zeal. This consideration also reminds us of the importance of having a powerful and independent public service media, the Kingdom News, and the importance of independent media that can be used to study newspapers. I agree with you, too. A member of the council that it is pointless to be shocked, although, of course, many are following such a case, that is a natural reaction, and more important is looking at what has been done and what has to be done. Hv. A senator said, "We are not innocent anymore. " I say, have we ever been innocent? Is it not true that much has changed in modern society since then? A senator was children at the age of one year? It's what it is. A senator, then, that such a discussion arose and responded? I say no to that, I think Icelandic society has changed for the better and that the public's demand is different from that. And that's good, that's good. I don't think we should overlook the fact that in the past decade, since a collapse, vast changes in legal and financial activities have been made and should be maintained even if I agree, of course. A senator says that we can do better in these matters for a long time and that we can better secure our administration in them. I'd like to briefly mention a few things related to Iceland's being on the gray list of FAFFs. I feel that it is important again and again to emphasize that when their last assessment was made in April 2018, we certainly responded and were attacked on massive improvements, even though we ended up in this gray list. However, this shows that it was not responded at an early hour, but I would like to remind them that this has been done by the government since its loyal support by the Generals. In particular, I would like to mention the bill of travel, industrial, and innovation to the actual owners that were approved at the General, which will be of great importance to improve the outcome of these matters. I also remind you that payoffs, whether from abroad or from abroad, are illegal to international law. I remind you that the Icelandic government signed the OECD contract first in Paris, 1997, and it was validated 1998. Last year, 2018, we covered a bill in this hall where the punishments due to payoffs were hardened because we've been handling these cases. That's where what we've been doing. Hv. A senator also mentions rules about taxes and tax returns. Very significant changes have been made in that field in the past decade, since the 2010 CFC rules were set up, the rules on trans-pre-EU reporting in 2017, except for the 44 information exchange agreements that have been made since 2008. True, much has been done. Also, I have placed great emphasis on law changes and regulations around interest logs, conflict of interests and information and transparency. Of course, the more transparent the point, the better. At this council, I will present a bill on legal changes in defense of interest conflicts in Iceland's Management Board. The General has already agreed to various of my bills, including for freedom of expression and the silentness of public workers and the changes in information law, and I understand that today's bill is to be measured for the protection of the informants. So we have to say that over the past decade, there has been just a lot of good work done on the part of governments and the Generals to improve legal and financial systems, financial activities, and business. I would also like to say that, of course, we make the clear requirement that the Icelandic company abide by law wherever they work, for when Icelandic companies operate in other countries, they are responsible not only for their own reputation but for the reputation of a community. This is a matter of concern to all of us, not just an individual enterprise, so it will not be the past time for Icelandic companies to violate laws and rules. The next step must be to investigate this matter, and although the legal environment has changed for the better, we need to review now if further adjustments need to be made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is also quite clear that the law needs to be followed and the consequences will come if not followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u22	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, and especially for what she said earlier. The issues we discuss here are serious and, if the facts are the ones that have been described, can have a profound effect. It is vital that governments respond without letup, without security, and in the right way. We should also keep in mind that the matter is already in the hands of a relative. According to the local district attorney's case this morning in the media, the case has been investigated for some time. Here, too, let us bear in mind that this hall is a seminar rather than a court of law. It's not ours here to pass judgment on this case right now. It's not time nor order. As the investigation unfolds, let us see what appears. How sad it is, though, that the use of natural resources in the world seems to have been oppressive by some Icelandic corporations! We were inundated with large - scale fleets in landstones, but we now use the same methods in other parts of the world. That's sad. Remember, though, that it is necessary for every state to preserve its natural resources and to ensure power over them. Very recently, we have taken steps in this hall in the opposite direction. I'm going to finish my speech by quoting Søren Kierkegaard. He once said, with the permission of a president: "If you are so eager to change the world, start something intimate, yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u23	A respectable president. We're proud of our country. We want to be in the front row. We are a progressive, ambitious, optimistic nation. We want to, despite being small in the international context, to put ourselves on a bench with those who are at the top of all human standards, and we've done well according to all our assessments to do just that. We face traumas of extreme lack, and we make a clear demand that laws and rules be respected. We accuse wrongdoers, and we execute judgments against them. We are fully involved in international cooperation to promote the prosperity and prosperity of the people of the land on the basis of free trade and peace. When issues, such as what is now discussed in society, it is vital that we maintain these principles and rely on the institutions and, if necessary, strengthen them. We can look back and ask what has been done. It has already been observed that we have been doing just that work well. International relations in Iceland are very significant, information exchange agreements, two-fold tax agreements, they are more likely to communicate across borders, to exchange information. These are things we have been working on in recent years. When it comes to corruption, we join the least corrupt nations in the world. And while public measurements show concern for corruption, international records show that there are extremely few real cases of corruption in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We are now faced with a difficult task that is important to us that we do not respond to the basics that we have so far to be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u24	Mr. President. In this case, officials in a faraway country have been given money to get over the survival of a poor nation, which for years the Icelanders had spent on money and effort in teaching marine roads and were proud of. Then pride turns into shame. Many Icelanders are rightly concerned about the massive purchases of foreign wealth on land with the advantages of land. In Namibia, Samherji is such a force, greed, the state of the alien who is greedy for public resources. The company grew up here in a shelter where it has managed to take over so much of our sea resources that it is impossible that a seafaring minister of each time can report to the company's affairs. Depravity is a mentality. It is revealed by gradually accepting the unacceptable. It involves becoming a form of behavior that is wrong by moral and legal standards. It conveys the idea that someone is above the law and order and customs because of wealth and power. It involves viewing people as prey rather than fellow citizens on this earth. Depravity is when virtue is replaced by vice. Depravity is also a choice, the innocence disappears, and we are faced with the choice whether we will react by dealing with what opened our eyes or closing them again and becoming an accessory. At this moment, there is such a critical time in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u25	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank Pirates for the initiative in this discussion and responsible discussion on the subject, but it is necessary to discuss this subject at all sites of the administrative and administrative sectors. Moral, integrity, and honesty will not be written into law, but somehow the saying that many will become of a penniless ape and want more. It sucks to know that people and businesses are willing to take advantage of their superior positions in order to heal and leave the surfaces of the earth, either here on land or outside the rocks, in an African developing world. It is clear that Iceland's reputation has been delayed in foreign lands and that a great restoration work lies ahead. In Icelandic companies, individuals, and much of those politicians have tax dollars and trade through them, of course, decreases trust in land and nation. That is why transparency and monitoring are essential in all business ventures, but can it be in our culture and language that we bear too much emphasis on corruption? Depravity is a misuse of power and, unfortunately, thrives in all control systems. Me and the Icelanders, we're gonna have to cut off every cousin's attention. Finally, I would like to quote Henry Henrysson Henry's son by permission of a president: ▪... how people go to show a lack of respect for those in a delicate position that the payoffs offer. The lack of understanding of the exploitation is so extensive that one makes the sound. ... What does this series of events indicate about Icelandic and commercial life? ... While putting all the blame on the informants is a known trick, it describes the way their character reacts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u26	Mr. President. The reason for this discussion is the news of an organized, thought - out conduct of an Icelandic factory, a flagship in its own sense, in situations that are basically as lame as possible. We are a people whose livelihood is built on natural resources, but now we are also a nation that betrays other nations for the natural price of their resources. There's reason to remember that we're world champions of national partnerships in taxes on the number to which you read in the Panama papers, and we also know that these are not the only documents. We are also the only state of the European economy on a grey list because of insufficient money response. The fact is, we in Icelandic society need to be especially careful. We are simply high - risk groups and have not done enough for prevention. The risk is cousinry. It's as simple as that. The risk is that we have been trained here, in our small, dense society, to view attempts to introduce laws and rules as personal attacks, including protocols to prevent people from failing with power and trust, to prevent such situations from forming. That technology works very well in our small community. I'm sorry for these innuendos, is an innuendo that has been a ready-to-be reaction to attempts to establish a preventative system. Are you accusing me? I went to school with you. I know your mom, I hired your dad, I bought a flat from your friend, I've seen you with diapers, etc. This will always be personal, and this approach is systematically maintained by those who are interested in keeping all paths open. Mr. President. It's time we listened to the public's call and deal with our systematic problem, and it needs to start here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u27	A respectable president. I appreciate the need for this discussion. A man is shocked, and I am deeply distressed that we are in this position. I've always looked up to the hard work and the hard work we've seen with the Samaritan, the amazing will for fighting. As I mentioned earlier, they have provided us with needs for our national preparation. At the same time, it has been on government command at any time, and particularly, as we have often said, the interest group in the Independence Party who has created the resources around us that it can be handled this way. No one needs to wonder how the power and power became so great that one of our companies, Samherji, has been able to take a course so far. It is simply because there has been this access to our resource without having to pay high prices, without the full price of the nation. I say, we must go to the ground with care. We've been through a lot of trouble. We lost an airline that went bankrupt. In one night, we got hundreds of people on the unemployment list. We fell into a fluke. We've lost our hairy stock. It won't be caught this year, as it was last year. Let us be selective because the way we handle this matter is noticed worldwide. Some time, however, a armored city was wrapped around the financial resources of the government during the period of payoff for the homes of the country. We must go to the ground with care. We must beat a armored city around our own interests as we never acknowledge organized crime or anything that actually appears to be on the table here. Research and other such factors will reveal things better. Let us wait, let us try to be modest in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u28	A respectable president. For some reason, we constantly see executives bumping onto a interests wall without realizing it. Consider an example. The minister accidentally meets sharks and directors in Samherja's office and calls the director to ask how he feels. Yet he has not been involved in the company for 20 years. The minister claims to be his own man, but he shows up with the Regulation of Whale Inc. The Ministry. The minister says he's going to step aside when the Samherja case comes on his table, but when it turns out that Samherji has a higher share of warrants than allowed by law, what does a minister do then? He appoints a team. Does he step aside? No, never, because a minister is his own man who is hard to tell whether he is talking to a friend or the largest stake in his language field. After all the corruption issues that have developed in recent years, how can we come to the mind that this is just an odd problem, an extremely unfortunate example in which corruption was accidentally committed, since someone else would have done so? We must awaken from this thorny sleep because the corruption, the cousin's attention, is our witch. In the case of a seafaring minister, I don't know what's worse, that he was abused to improve the appearance of Samherja, or if it was deliberate. In fact, trust and responsibility are important. Of course, it is normal for a minister to step aside in these matters at least because it gathers when it comes, especially in the accounts of an African society, to refer to the common problems of the Samherja and the Panamas. Then where was the investigation, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u29	Mr. President. Depravity has been the course of mankind for all ages, and it continues to drive people astray, as the examples show. Happily, the world's nations have been working worldwide with international contracts working to tighten legislation and regulations in order to prevent taxes and money thefts and other business corruptions. So I think it's a very good thing that this case, this shameful case, has come to the prosecutor and the tax investigator to do it. It's important to take immediate action. During the past few years, there have been important steps to counteract corruption and increase transparency in this country, e.g. has the construction of the financial system, the principle of money fraud, the funding of terrorism, and the like. Be different, but it is obvious that the task is unworked, and we need to do better. It was observed yesterday that corruption has been observed in the Achibian Seaways, where from 2014 onward, the official status of the informants has been observed. The use of poor countries is not to be the case in Icelandic fishing companies, where more often than the underlying corruption is not in order to cover the resources of these poor countries, where there are poorer and poor people. It's immoral and criminal. It will never be possible to eliminate corruption and immoral individuals. I don't think it'll ever be possible to do that. But what we can do is tighten the law of law and order to deal with corruption and prevent people from living contrary to all laws and regulations in the shelter of greed and shamelessness toward society. That's what we have to do. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u30	Mr. President. Here is a discussion of corruption in the context of recent coverage of the fishing industry in the African nation of Namiba and the arrival of an Icelandic company in the saying of goodbye distribution in the seas off the coasts of Southwestern Africa. The issue involves important resources of a small nation. This brings to mind how important it is for us to protect our resources from the greed of powerful countries, states, or international wealth. This is a reminder that we have to protect all of our resources, including the energy resources, as we actually discussed quite some earlier this year. This is not a political issue. The right authorities need to be informed and at peace to do their work, and I trust the police and our prosecutors to do this. In the political field, some even go so far as to call for serious and burdensome action during the early stages of the case and to upset the interests of hundreds of people. Mr. President. Such a course is designed to undermine the security of the rights and to make us feel no better about it. It is vital that we maintain a stable guard over the state of justice and arrange for the institutions to investigate these matters to be granted not only peace to gain them well and that they are well cared for and that they have human resources and other tools to do their professional and compassionate work. Mr. President. There is no judgment, and I encourage moderation in the choice of words and response of all. My message is simple: You should remain calm and give the right authority to the local authorities to investigate the matter fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u31	V.E.G. President. The issues discussed here are worth discussing at the conferences, especially from the general grounds that it is more difficult to discuss a specific matter, provided the role of the competent authorities, investigators, prosecutions and according to court case cases, to state whether the law has been violated and to which it is responsible. These matters seem to be on a normal course, and we at the council must expect them to have the necessary progress and to be expected by the law. This case is frightening. The data mentioned are evidence of a serious fracture and it is important that you take it correctly. When we consider our role at the council, it is not, as others have mentioned today, that we correct matters or come to a conclusion. Our role is to establish the general code of laws that must be followed in business, politics, and other areas. As we have seen in talks in both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance has actually been a permanent subject for a long time here. For example, law code has experienced significant changes in the environment of financial life, employment in general, and administration. Although we still have a project to do in that area, no one can say but that the legislature of the past few years, at least In the last ten years, it has been aimed at bringing us forward and correcting what has been critical in our legislation in that area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u32	Mr. President. What is corruption, and how do we discern it? The term corruption, in effect, has no irrefutable meaning, but it has become a source of emotions in all of us, strong feelings in some people, embarrassed with others, and still others become defensive. Despite the fact that there is no clear explanation, corruption can be said to be a failure of public power for one or many. Such corruption is thus at the expense of the masses in behalf of the few. When many signs of corruption are revealed in communities, the result is tremendous distrust for those who have caused it. The power can be all kinds; official power, police authority, capital power, business power, power in the judiciary and power over resources. The only ones who really have the power to shape a corruption reform, or to say that reduce the likelihood of corruption in society, are we, the political people who cross the rules. Where are we there when less than 20% of the people trust us to do what is right? You see, there is a great deal of power in setting the rules of the game, but there is also much power for more things to do not set rules, to make sure there are no rules for play. There are great powers, refusing to respond when tests are tested, or preventing rules of conduct from being clear for all, not just some.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u33	V.E.G. President. It's very convenient to come to the latter part of the discussion because the main lines have shown a little bit. In view of what has been going on in these last days, this discussion has been good, and I hear that we here agree that the film that was drawn up by the Samherja company two days ago doesn't look so good at all. [[Up front.]] Many of us are shocked. What matters here with us is to identify what is what. Our job here is to make laws, like cot. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir went well over, that's our here to set the frame. We've done a lot of things. V.E.G. At the beginning, the prime minister listed what has been done and what the setting looks like today. Is that enough? No, obviously not, and this work will continue. I don't think it's over because there's always new challenges that the General needs to deal with to develop the legislation that companies and others should do. The responsibility of all enterprises is clear. It is primarily to obey the laws and at the same time to show community responsibility and to practice morality throughout all its activities. It is then available for the competent authorities to investigate such issues as what we are discussing today and for others at the same time judging, not ours here. That's why we need to be careful. [[The president calls.]] This particular finding is under investigation. Judgment has not fallen, let us wait and see what wind may come forth before we have that great word. However, our role here is clear, to improve the law on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u34	Mr. President. There is reason to welcome this important discussion. Of course, all of us know that our presence in small society is a great factor that underscores the importance of guidelines being clear, that transparency exists, and that we have an effective monitoring of the activities that include the one. magazines. However, it brings to mind how we have done our own work in such a vital way as to the sector presented here directly and indirectly, the fishing grounds in our country. Certainly we can be proud of the Icelandic seafood way, for good management, for efficiency, but at the same time we must also consider that in these halls we have for decades the same differences without getting a solution; the resource directives in a constitution, repeated advice by groups of work groups on the timing of fishing clearances in the current fishing industry, the high contracting that has been made in the industry so that the sum of the shares of some companies have come far above the limits we set when the fishing management system was established, without our failure here. And most important, we're adding real resource fees, a real price for access, for the rights to the common resources of the country which have been repeatedly tried to deal with in this room but we've always failed. It is quite clear that when we look at the much effort in the industry that it has made, it is in such a way that the article itself is ready to pay much more for its innovation than the Allied Council has left it to do. [[The president calls.]] You ask yourself: " What is the position of the public interest and not the interest of the industry itself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u35	A respectable president. Earlier in the discussion, the expression was: There are many penniless apes. I think we should apologize to our friend primates in the animal kingdom for the fact that many people are corrupt and need some help in themselves. Covetousness becomes an addiction. Is greed good? The atmosphere in society is characterized by greed, which we have not experienced in the past as much as we have today. They have been far from social obligations as well as sympathy and cooperation. ▪ What I mean, ladies and gentlemen, is greed - as it were, good. Greed is right. Greed produces results. Greedy sharps, leaves no doubt, and is the core of all developments. Greed in all its forms - life's greed, money greed, love, desire for knowledge - has marked mankind's progress. It's a direct quote in a movie played by Michael Douglas in 1987, and it's still appropriate for us today. Iceland's reputation waits over and over again. We do not seem to be able to control ourselves with all the greed that comes upon us. Is 110 billion in ten years sufficient to heal? Is 10 billion a year sufficient to heal? No, it doesn't seem so. All this discussion has also revealed that the director of Samherja has stepped aside during the investigation. That's good. We must realize that we are in a poor place regarding money matters, and we must and should do better. I say here and now I can say better if it's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u36	Mr. President. Corruption thrives in every country in the world. Iceland is not an isolated case. We may be better than many other countries, and I actually claim that we are better than many other countries. I've seen a lot of money and it's reaching over many continents. In fact, it is a big, money - flounder that stretches over many continents, but it is often larger. I've seen $120 billion in money. Victims of international corruption are not affected. They feel only the consequences of poverty, poverty, horror. GFI estimates in 2008 that about 1,200 billion dollars flow from developing countries each year to $100 billion, which flow into the form of development aid. In these matters, we need to understand the international context, and that's exactly what it is. The prime minister said, it's good that these issues are coming up on the surface. We're dealing with these problems. We've done very well, and I even want to mean to the highest. The prime minister has done outstandingly well in this series of issues. There's a lot going on, and I'm sorry for this to take a long time, but we need to spit in our hands, not just here, but in the international context as well. There is no way to hide the fact that these issues have to take some form of history and that justice needs to be guaranteed because when we wait for international opinions, we need to respond. It also says what some are quick to demand that a discussion about the management of one of our main resources be kept out of the discussion. Why? We are trying to improve, and that is good, but let us not overlook the root cause. Let us not allow ourselves to be misled. We must deal with this for ourselves and for all mankind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u37	Mr. President. I want to finally thank you for the discussion. I think it's less likely. I am especially referring to what has been done in the past decade, as I mentioned in the previous talk. Many reforms have been made, most in good standing, but at the same time I agree with them. A senator and a saying, Smári Mccarthy, that we can do better, especially when it comes to international cooperation. There we have improved in recent years with information exchange agreements and hard work within OECD, but because of the nature of corruption, because of the nature of the wealth of turning to the places where light does not shine, international cooperation and international relations are of utmost importance. There we have been moving on, but we can do better. I also agree with those who speak specifically of the presence in Icelandic society. But I would also like to say that when I was elected to a council in 2007, there was no moral code for members of Congress. Those matters were not discussed. Today we may feel that we have a moral code, discuss it, wonder what it means to be an elected representative, so much has happened. I said earlier that I was pretty sure that the case we are discussing today did not trigger the same reaction in 1997, for example. I don't think it's possible to step forward and say, "We never learn anything. Nothing ever happens. It's not like that. I believe we've done a lot of good, to make it in 2016 when tax losses were the most important thing to do. Then we met together at the council on the contrary, groups of great reforms in these matters. But it's important to be always at the toes, and I mentioned earlier that my bill was telling me about the success of interest in the administrations which I hope could still improve these matters, the bill for the protection of the informants and members. We must always stay on the watch and be aware that we can do better, but I am very optimistic after this discussion about how we can do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u38	Mr. President. Education and effectiveness should always be used in the treatment of public funds. The financial bill gives evidence that the government's list of projects is not the top priority. There goes the leading member of the Independence Party, which has regularly cried out loud for elections: Go away! Then, when the pack reaches power, the stall continues to grow. ◯ We need to clean up our financial affairs and reduce our Kingdom interests. That's what I said. Secretary of finance in 2010. There's nothing to figure out. It's a direct misdemeanor. On the contrary, a minister offers a financial bill that is still improved in the state's firms. The state has spread in the history of this government, and no attempts have been made to reduce the rate of state activities. Is that contrary to what the Independence Party has proclaimed for each election? It is long time to attack the public system and reduce the public activity. The middle class is the only group that makes it work. The party proposes a modification proposal to the bill for the economy of all departments at 10%. Will turn it over to $1,100 million. In addition, we stress that the Council Bank and FME integration bring economicization up to 350 million. K. and that this will be reduced from the state's viewpoint to nearly 1.5 billion dollars. In all, the Central Party suggests 18 different forms of the bill. The suggestions are full - time, are realistic, and do not increase in the balance of government funds. The majors, as well as reducing the state's perspective, are 800 million. K. a contribution to the challenge of nursing staff, but the government has completely neglected this important category in the management of nursing homes, and there is also a further decrease in insurance costs of 25%, but it has to be more supportive of Icelandic companies in meeting rising pay costs and resisting the decrease in jobs. The central category suggests that carbon costs do not rise by 10%. In the past of this government, the carbon paid has risen by 85% and is now due to a government budget of 6.3 billion. This new tax is not fair to the inhabitants of the land, and it has gone out of the way. Environmental Ministers have confirmed that the results of this tax cannot be determined. We suggest that the land of the Bank of the East be sold and the value run into a government fund. It is unnatural for a bank that is almost completely owned by a government fund to represent the construction of a large house on the most expensive property in the country, especially since financial services are changing rapidly and the number of jobs is diminishing. Similarly, we suggest that the construction of the administration chamber be postponed. A built - in structure that is believed to be a rough, inhuman, cold policy that usually arouses a lack of a positive outlook. These suggestions save over 2.5 billion dollars. It is urgent to face health - care problems in the country, allowing for 250 billion. K. It's a little extra to that group. We all care about microbubbles. The middle class has some practical suggestions that aim to improve their status. Let us increase to 525 million, one by increasing the number of jobs through contracts and by increasing the cost of disability. Police and customs officials have not received much attention from the government. Police contributions are reduced in the bill at the same time as organized crime grows in the country. The Central Party feels that it is urgent to promote both police and customs and to make changes to more than 0.5 billion dollars. of this important safety aspect of the city. Other suggestions might be given, such as the fact that older citizens do not interfere with pensions, mental health, the health of the elderly, forestry, and a new methodology in support of private media work. Mr. President. This government's budget will be largely remembered for new taxes in beautiful containers, a marked expansion of the state's body, and aversion to the private enterprise, as in health matters. Despite the beautiful promises of tax declines, there are many higher rates, the tax system is becoming more complex and heavier. Between taxes and services, there is an ever - increasing blurred trend. Plans for even more taxes are waiting on the sideline, for example. Fence tax, and travel tax is on the other side of the corner. Bad preparation made the government backward for its time. Again, the government is in denial of economic issues. Trusted in a temporary increase in the fluctuation. The budget will be fired with a tilt for the first time in seven years. [[The president calls.]] There are barriers to uncertainty, low costs have been made to support the budget and income. In 2014, the total cost of the state was 612 billion. [[The president calls.]] Today it has reached 918 billion, 300 billion dollars. increase over six years. [[The president calls.]] In recent years, economic growth has been unprecedented, but has society changed at that rate? [[The president calls.]] The government's problem is being swept constantly. Its motto is: the larger states, hidden tax returns, and new taxes in beautiful containers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u39	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u40	Mr. President. This financial bill is the third in line for the current government, and in the past it is not in line with what was promised for elections. It was not stated for elections that high school should have cuts. This was not for the election that the Landspians would be sent through extensive maintenance operations. It was not intended for elections to allow disability to wait another year for justice. It was not stated for elections that it was to cut backs on films by 30%. It was not foretold for elections that donations would be cut down from year to year for the Development of Technology, Industry Fund, Public Health, Spouse Fund, Research Fund, and even the Communion Fund. Nor was it said for elections that there should be a decrease in funding for aid tools, rehabilitation services, forest breeding, a protected workplace, and a general law enforcement system, as done in this financial bill. And when did the left of the election say that there should be more than half of the cost of fishing during the election season? That statement went at least ... pastme. Now that a recession is begun in the economy, there is an even greater need to be careful that society's interiors and equations are well cared for. The United States has previously noted that the role of the government is to ensure economic and social stability. I'm sorry, this financial bill doesn't make any sense. We don't need to be listened to in the United States any more than people want to listen, dear senators, to the stakeholders who have said the same thing. Listen to the Micro-Community Alliance, the Fault of Old Citizens, the National Association of Iceland, BSRB, BHM, they're all key members of this community that give this financial bill a drop-off. They're people who aren't in Trinitarians. They're an organization that's fighting for a better welfare system, and these people don't see the rosy color as rough. According to members of the board, members of the board feel that this is a bill. Mr. President. The government will not attack the necessary investments in the interiors of society, as was the custom of the last election or in the necessary government income. It all affects the welfare of all of us. Thus, the United States has proposed a change in budgets for 20 billion. The union suggests making the budget more progressive and more righteous. The suggestions, on the other hand, are about to advance to education, innovation, and climate and to protect the well - being of the public, children's families, health care, both in and out of the country. I could mention that there were especially medical institutions in the country that pointed out that the area was being squeezed in. These are all suggestions that would greatly improve this budget and are financed, but unfortunately I suspect that they will all be incorporated, such as the left green, advance, and independence parties have always done with previous budgets. Are these senators going to vote today against our proposal for additional donations to the district attorney and the head of the tax on the Samher case? Will they vote against that proposal? Will members of the board vote against increased donations to the Hospital, high school, health institutions on the land, and climate? Are these same members of Congress going to vote against the United States' proposal for money to the U.S.A., which is now dealing with their longest waiting list in history? Mr. President. The work is speaking, but unfortunately, they paint a dark picture of what is found in this second most recent financial bill of this government, hopefully starting its entire last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u41	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a fine discussion of the budget bill, both 1st. and in the person who is about to end, and saying that of course we'll be successful here on political policies, of course, there have been differences of opinion, but the grade that this budget has received and we cannot help but refer to the comments that have been received for now, perhaps for a very long time, is to confirm that the economic government, the government of government, supports money policy. We're going to make the financial contributions to the economy. We are achieving amazing historical success in the economic regime in Iceland. We're using this financial bill to cope with a down cycle. We're using this financial bill to cope with contractions. We're stimulating the economy. We continue to lower taxes. We're getting results in the government business, making it more efficient. We are making a great effort to turn the Icelandic government into a digital form, and so on. That's the grade this budget really deserves. This situation is based on responsible economic management and the responsible government of government in recent years. It is important that we draw this forward at the end of the 2nd. This financial bill. We continue to support and build up. We're raising investments. We certainly are on the right track. I thank you for your cooperation at a budget board in this fall and for the chairman of the budgetary committee for a very good job management in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u42	Mr. President. This has naturally been the case in many parts of the 2nd. About the budget of 2020. There are many things to do when it comes to the operation of an entire community. The discussion has been good, and in times very enjoyable. It's nice to talk about money because talking about money is about community. Hv. However, members of the government stand clearly in contrast with what these budgets do, but it has been said in the debate that there will be continued economic government on account of the Independence Party and that the budget reflects the tax policy of the left green. It's okay. We are people with differing political views, and it is natural for us to have different political views reflected in our conversations. The main legal bill includes changes in income taxation by individuals, changes that are expected to introduce over two years instead of three years, where the current base of the tax system becomes two, and the tax steps by three, together with changes in personal discount and taxation limits. Insurance costs are reduced, birthworm is prolonged, and a handsome increase is seen in government investments over the next year. These are good changes resulting in improving the quality of life and the provision of households in the country, making companies easier to hire people and to trust in the infrastructure of this country. This is partly included in the biographies agreements that have reduced the uncertainty of the next year as assessed by all investigators. Since the budget was released, there have been some circumstances that have changed. It features the highest economy of the Hague, and as a result, the income of the state funds has been reevaluated. Therefore, proposals for specific changes are made on the bill here at 2nd. to them has been an article earlier in the discussion. The economy's contractures are affected, not by cutting down, but by allowing the overall survival to become negative by a total of 10 billion dollars. There is about 0.3% of GDP than the uncertainty range allowed by financial policy is 0.8%. This is a wise arrangement in view of the situation in the economy, to reduce the maintenance of public funds, and to let the public work on the economy. As a result, the uncertainty curve was entered into a spring policy. On this point in the economy, i.e. how the economy is affected, has not been a major conflict in the discussion, and has not really been discussed. Although some members of the body have certainly been discussed with them, this has not been a burden on the discussion. I think that's a sign of the strength of these budgets. Opinions on the change in priority spending have been made, and this is normal from the position of the administration of the time, but we in the left movement, a green supply is the priority shown in these budgets and the changes in the budget and are proud of it. We are trusting in the health system, increasing cost to the environment about a billion dollars and improving the public's standard of living with special emphasis on low income groups, with changes in the tax system. I think all of this is going to benefit our community next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u43	Mr. President. I have been most critical of this government for the huge increase in spending during the terms she sits, probably a record of exasperating the state field. But there is more than just a record in the increase in income that is critical. It is a major problem in the approach of the government on the terms of the budget, the immense irresponsibility of approach, that it measures its success in how much it manages to increase its financial expenditure. There I would like the government to be more concerned with the effectiveness of public rants and not how much it costs. I myself get out of business, and there no man would think of measuring his business result from the way he manages to increase the company's economic spending between years. What really matters is the scope and quality of our ministry. It is a concern when we look to the success of this government that, despite all the payoffs to the health system, which is still relative to the lowest increase in government spending during the first three years of its work, we are still dealing with a waiting list as we were at the beginning of the season. We still haven't handled the flow problem of the Land Hospital. We haven't gotten our tails in a nursing facility yet. We have not yet solved the urgent nursing problem, and so on. The list of failures of this government is quite long when it comes to health and welfare as well. We have not yet completed a reexamination of the law on the micro-energy sector and it seems that the government will not last long to complete this review or have money for it in its final year of budgeting by 2021. Despite all the financial expansion that the government boasts of on a regular basis, enough investment has not yet been added to the infrastructure that has been starving in the past decade. The state's investment level still depends on a historic average, despite the expansion of the government. Whenever the government finds it difficult to get the ends together at the final source of the budget, the consultation is under way, i.e. to reduce investments so that extra expenses can be continued, for this government does not distinguish between cost of operating and investments. There's only a fundamental difference when we speak e.g. that the government's budget is supported by an absolute downturn of the economy for the first time in a long period of time is successful because the government has always followed the same policy, increasing its expenses as much as it has room for each year. This time, she meets up with a down cycle in the expansion process, and for the first time, she receives a recommendation. During her first two budgets, she was criticized for the opposite, that money was a source of expansion in the way it was then. How sad it is that these are not making use of the down cycle for much greater public investments! This is the exact time point. This is the opportunity for the public to make good purchases, so to speak, in public investment, while there is some relaxation in the economy to meet the necessary infrastructure. Sadly, though, it is an opportunity to go to the courtyards. What is worst of the government's payout happiness, however, is that we are missing out on the opportunity to reduce the major tax increases that occurred after the crash. This year, as repeated in the discussion, Icelandic companies and homes pay nearly 120 billion more taxes than they would have done at a rate comparable to the rate of taxes that was held back in 2007,2008. It's urgent to lower taxes. We've become a very high tax country. In spite of all the economic developments we have experienced during the past decade, during one of the longest continuous economic growths, we will not be able to reduce our taxes at all. There would be no better way to stimulate the economy than to reduce taxes to stimulate the private consumption and investment levels of the private sector. But no, the government doesn't think that there's room for it, and it's important to bust the hatch out further. It will be the follow-up of this government. It will be the government of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u44	A respectable president. We'll talk here at 2nd. The budget 2020, based on the so - called financial program for five years. We had to pick it up again, since it had actually smiled immediately while printing the doll that was laid for us, the financial program that suggested that there should be nothing further to increase the pay and increase their resources and improve the benefit of those in the community with the palaces, and these signs bear the budget for 2020. The poorest people in the country are still to wait for justice. Those who live only on bail transfers are still to be included around 240,000 dollars. signed. The government's tax reduction will improve their rate next year by about 2,000. per month. We are faced with a unprecedented catastrophe that targets organized crime in the land. We look forward to the unprecedented and untimely death of young people and others in the country because of drug abuse, as a result of drug poisoning, by suicide. There is no special effort in these funding to resist it, to meet what I believe today is one of the greatest woes that we as a nation have ever faced. There's not a single additional cent in law enforcement, not alone. However, donations to law enforcement are reduced by more than 400 million. K. the budget for 2020. We are still watching the wait list, and despite the good intentions of trying to meet the problems of older citizens with increased nurses, it is also at the expense of residents. We're always like the hamster of the bike. I gave an hour's talk about this last night, even though it was cut apart because of lunch break or whatever it was now, which was worth a bit of attention, but I actually said everything that has to be said and I don't need to be extended any more. A group of people have made adjustments. We want top priority, 2 billion bucks. Police, we want to put 5 billion in. at the hospital of the United States, where there is a medical hospital at ◯ a university hospital and other specialized hospital services. We want to ensure that all people have access to health care without having to lie somewhere and wait too long for first help. We put the people first, and it's sad to look at them again that they do not do the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter at all. It is the people first and the government that cannot uphold a universal order and protect its citizens. It is a government that is not a town to rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u45	A respectable president. This is a new proposal, which had already been introduced in a committee party but was simply missing the numbers in the process of changing themselves. So it is made up of a special document with exactly that adjustment proposed. Something's gone in handcarceration. You see, we have small problems that when we make some adjustments that go on the same team, they all come together, and we can't vote for each and one change proposal at once, but we vote for the whole thing at once. It simply doesn't work in my opinion. Of course, the council should be able to choose and reject each and every suggestion, not just the whole. There may be three different suggestions, even if they slip in on the same team. We have a little problem with this, and I encourage that we will correct it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u46	A respectable president. It's a lousy budget. That's what I said. Now I have to keep that word. I do this by explaining why my use of the law made me miserable. I don't like the law on public finances. I hate to see why it goes 10 billion to one subject instead of 9 or 11. I hate that it's not explained why it's being sharp and not here. I hate to see opportunities to make further lost one year, opportunities to build up through education and innovation, to achieve equal resources in the resource markets, to accept a new Community contract, to build up the young generation, and to create an opportunity for it. I don't think Iceland lacks vision for the future, especially because it's exactly what the future vision is supposed to show up, in financial and financial programmes. There, the policy of the government is made manifest to all to look at, understand, criticize, or celebrate. Instead, legal documents are randomly discarded here and there on grounds that violate public financial laws. We should not say: Climate problems - hey, put 6 billion into it. We are to ask what the problem is, gather up ideas about measures that can solve the problem, see how well the action will solve the problem, and then choose between. I hate that we're not doing it, we're just guessing some of the things that seem to be a random amount that we hope to solve the problem without knowing or not. We just hope that it gets tough, at worst, at the end of the budget. Classic Icelandic amateur. A respectable president. The budget sucks because it sucks to do the key role of the Senate in the budget, to monitor the implementation of budgets, when a minister says he needs 1 billion, and the council asks why and the minister answers: just that. Then the council cannot ask how it's going. However, if a minister answers: Then I can finance two new emergency nursing homes, thus saving 500 million a year to the future, the council can follow if the procedure is initially practical and later whether the cost of treatment is practical and will use the 500 million to something else. I hate that the budget isn't like this, but it's supposed to be this, based on government financial laws. If they were, we might also ask, " Would it not be cheaper or equally effective to emphasize, for example? ' A home nurse who has a different option. I don't think the budget is just about the big numbers, but it's not about policy. Yes, the economy and all of that need to be handled, but it will not automatically improve if public expenses are increased and spells are reduced. It's not a magic formula. The increase, how, and why are costs important. Also important is the reduction of the curses and why. It helps you to see which numbers are involved. In this financial bill, the largest number is negative, increasing unemployment to 10 billion. But it's not all so bad to be good, we're finally reaching the sustainable development and maintenance level in transport. Just fine, everybody would've done it. I'm afraid I'll bet it. A new hospital is absolutely necessary, and such emphasis as a longer birthworm is enjoyable, but there will be no comedian by saying one and one good joke, and the financial bill is certainly no joke. You see, the proposed bill for budget management is the most serious thing to do, the source being given to the executives next year and the tax paid by the public. The last miserable unfair thing that comes out of the bill I want to mention is a miserable additional meeting with the church meeting. This is a horriblely bad deal on a horrible, terrible, pathetic agreement that I don't think is in violation of a constitution and I don't believe the deal is against the law. A respectable president. This bill is a terrible redoubt. It's sad, since I know where people's ambitions are headed by the formula set on public financial matters. I look forward to seeing a bill that gives them ambitions. I am responsible for the inaction of the Ministers and the insurrection of the Parliament that this bill has failed to be successful, yet another budget for the implementation of their implementation is impossible, making Ministers' annual reports after a year's waste of time. It sucks. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u47	V.E.G. President. We're here at the end of 2nd. The budget, and I think the discussion has been helpful. It has done more than often in the past much in the scope of the budget, language fields, and litigation classes. I feel that there have been many excellent talks here, and it was a good organization within the classes to cover individual topic areas and lawsuits and how these expenditures affect society and settlements. I'd like to commend the government for this. It is also important to make suggestions and solutions, although, of course, I do not agree with all of them. There is not exactly a red thread on the criticism of the government groups, e.g. whether to increase or reduce government spending, decrease or increase taxes. All of us, though, agree on one thing, and it seemed like a red thread in this discussion, and it's a good thing, that it is important all the time, a respectable president, when it comes to government funds to make an efficient and reasonable use of the money and to determine what it will bring. That is why this discussion is necessary, so I found it very helpful. I endeavor to subtract the criticism from the discussion in an upbuilding way. Therefore, this work of the Parliament, the Committee, the discussion with the carers, community agencies, professional life, is a very important and important part of the budget process and the methods expressed in the budget of the individual. It was confirmed and crystalline during the discussion to the highest level. During the season, the government has raised a great deal of expenses. We're looking forward to a major real-time expansion of state spending during the election season and investments in major infrastructures. When we talk about the nature of spending and paying taxes, the impact of the decisions that governments take into account as part of the proper reaction to economic change, as a contribution to the labour market, employment and home. We can certainly see this in these budgets in investments, in the contribution to the labour market's biographies, with significant tax declines, and with changes in income taxes made by individuals specifically aimed at increasing the provision of income-rich groups. It is a turning point that the tax limit will continue to take into account the prices and production of the labor force and will enjoy future economic growth. The development of the 35 fiscal budgets has been made up in one overview showing black in whites the design of major infrastructures, as outlined in the Treaty. Public financial laws have changed the way things were done, and this discussed matters. This is one integrated policy process, and there is a high level of progress in working with a national financial programme in the spring that increases the stability and discipline throughout the administration and highlights the importance of strategy in the early stages. The decisions and changes we are working with here are no less evident at that work, and the overall abnormalities are not great despite the changes that must be made inevitably. Here we make some decisions that lead to change, as we are dealing with a living, dynamic economic environment. Hv. paritaprevir In an interesting talk, a Smári Mccarthy said that the Kingdom Ministry was not like any other bookbook. It is an interesting approach, a respectable president, and can be considered and reasoned in such a way that no, it is not like any other household accounts, but it is the book of every household in the country. It is so remarkable that there is also evidence that when we accept budgetary and fictitious forms and tax laws, the total amount of material resources may be reasonable to provide resistance and increase value, support for jobs and homes in the country. Hence, this budget and government policy are just designed to provide economic resistance and to cope with eased economic growth. A number of people have also confirmed that the state-of-the-art economic policy is now working in harmony with financial policies and employment markets. At the end, a respectable president, I want to thank all those who participated in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] It was challenging, upbuilding, and an important part of the financial process. [[The president calls.]] Hv. The legal committee is a special source of cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u48	Mr. President. In these funds, contributions to high school are reduced. The land hospital has foretold extensive maintenance operations. It is a time for the poor to wait on God for justice. Moviemaking is cut down by 30%. The contributions to the Research Fund, the balance fund, and the general police are reduced, and even now they are cut off to the protected workplaces of disability. None of this was told before the election. When did the left green of elections say that fishing sheets should be reduced by more than half during the election season? That statement, by any means, went by me. The council here proposes progressive change proposals but it will be interesting to see if the senators vote against our proposal for greater contributions to the district attorney and the head of the IRS on the Samher case. Will they vote for donations to the Land Hospital, the High Schools, the U.S.A., the medical institutions abroad, and the climate? Mr. President. The work will indeed speak clearly today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u49	V.E.G. President. These are good financial laws, reductions in employment and individual taxation, as well as an investment in the internal structure of the administration contract. The financial law is based on a more reasonable policy designed to meet the pace of the economy and provide resistance in improving economic growth. We should all agree to these budgets and adjustments in the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u50	A respectable president. With these provisions, we are improving the quality of life and the provision of households in the land. We make companies easier to hire and to trust the infrastructure of this country. With these funding we are also promoting the health system, increasing the cost of environmental care, which is important in these times, and making a special contribution to the public's standard of living, with special emphasis on low income groups, with changes in the income tax system. These are budgets that match the place we are in the economy and become important for the next year's Icelandic community. A greater proportion of the legal committee contributes to changes needed and to improve the good bill being submitted in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u51	A respectable president. I have a few things to check on, but the general policy is exactly in the right direction, it's just a matter of choice that is extremely hidden and doubts as to whether the best measures are actually being made in order to cover expenses or to maintain. Pirates and I suggest that a personal discount be paid to the people, unused, prepared to give a personal discount directly to the people. This is most beneficial to young people, the ones where income has been added to the income history. We suggest putting down a penny in return against a coin, cancel the charges, and raise the personal discount. We propose money in the initiative research done by the U.S. government agent, the rest of the church meeting, and an additional 550 million in the Research Fund and Technologies Fund, each to promote innovation and create new opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u52	Mr. President. Here we vote for a budget bill that has been graded to be a good support tool for money policy in this country, which creates our position that we have a more powerful interview in a subsidive economy. We vote on budgets that support the stability necessary at this time to get us back up quickly. We're going to vote for a budget bill that will ensure that, for example, it is. The decrease in interest that has been, one of the greatest reforms that the entire population and businesses in this country can have, is entrusted with. We'll do here a good day by agreeing to the 2nd. A solid and powerful financial bill for a better future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u53	A respectable president. A group of people contributes a number of adjustments to the budget. Each one of them has a mission to meet the people in the country, since a group of people puts people first in their lives. Here I have repeatedly pointed out that the priorities of money have not been in the interests of the people of the country as much as possible. Right away. Congress says we're supporting stability, it's at the expense of the poorest people in the country. From now on, it is quite clear that the national sink appears to be being kept floating by bending the bent banks more. I'll ask for a roll call on some of the things I'm offering. I'd like to see if we're ready to discriminate microorganisms in the matter of NPA services and other things. It will be a pleasure to see how the world of Congress cares about our smallest brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u54	Mr. President. We are here taking charge of irresponsible budgets, where the government spending is extended to the limit at the same time as investments in necessary repairs are once again neglected. We're putting up budgets where the uncertainty shift is up to the limit right away, although there is still a great uncertainty about economic development next year and there will be no doubt that this government will cause a problem in the coming year. The smaller part has provided a number of excellent adjustments in this budget bill that we on Reunion will vote for. Of course, we do know the rules here, the script that this play has long since been written, and the majority of its contents will no doubt bring them all conscientious, which is more important than what they include.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u55	These budgets show that we are achieving the goal that all of us should aim to pursue at the General Assembly, to let the government work on money policy and employment market policies, to use the granting of infrastructure, and to increase the public investment to counteract the slacking of the economy at times in which the economy is cooling off. At the same time as we're securing economic stability, we're ensuring social stability, goals we've often spoken about, but not often achieved, which is a classic Icelandic economy of vast fluctuations. I think these budgets are a much more milestone than we've been getting used to in a long time. I believe that there are the three support of the economy working together in particular considering that the budgets that are reduced are the most useful and that we have social views for the purpose of the infrastructure that occurs so that these budgets I believe to be good financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u56	Mr. President. This government's budget will be largely remembered for new taxes in beautiful containers, a marked expansion of the state's body, and aversion to the private enterprise, as in health matters. Despite the wonderful promises of tax reductions, there are many rates raised. The tax system is becoming more and more complex. Between taxes and services, there is an ever - increasing blurred trend. Plans for even more taxes wait on the sideline, plagion tax, and tax from tourism across the corner. Again, the government is in denial of economic issues. Trusting in a temporary increase in income has been on the rise. The budget will be fired with a tilt for the first time in seven years. There are barriers to uncertainty, and little could have been done to ensure that programmes of prevention and income do not work to finance the expenses needed. Mr. President. The government's problem is being swept constantly. Its motto is a bigger state frame, disguised tax returns, and new taxes in beautiful containers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u57	A respectable president. Here's one of the problems I mentioned earlier. In fact, there are two suggestions, on the one hand, for a faulty character discount of 10.5 billion and a higher personal discount due to the degradation of parish accounts, and this is shown in one number rather than a two-way vote for the proposals. But because we make some changes where the figure was missing, it comes in a separate document. You can vote specifically for it in the next team I'm coming to explain. But this is an unused personality discount followed by an increase in personality discounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u58	A respectable president. This is a suggestion that cannot be supported. We have a personal discount that works in a way that encourages people to make money. Students who are specifically referred to in connection with this suggestion can make their income on the rights of some 1 60,000 dollars. a month without paying any taxes. Just about 1.9 million a year can be made without paying any taxes. This is the catalyst we want to create. But then there is a suggestion that you can earn only this income, 1.9 million, even though you don't contribute, and all the motivations are actually turned upside down. [[It's a negative income tax.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This ideologies just don't work in my opinion. If a person wants to go to a person's discount, the income tax system will have to be taken back and thought about it from the ground up. But this kind of independent motion, just like this, has all the wrong motivation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u59	A respectable president. This proposal is to remove a penny from the loss that is still going on, a simple matter of righteousness, and it can be taken care of. There are certainly the right motivations, as was the disintegration of 1 too. It is not proper to encourage students to work along with study. We want a much more efficient study so that people can finish on time, etc. We talked only about earlier, but it's said that we're going to cancel a cent for the loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u60	Mr. President. This is a suggestion to raise the roof of reimbursement for corporate research and development. Iceland is at the bottom of OECD countries' list using this method. We need targeted measures to complete the roof. Such investments will eventually yield to not only the increase in government funds but also the increase in material wealth and the building of a powerful innovation and knowledge industry in the country. In fact, we should not afford to refuse this suggestion, but unfortunately we have. It is evident in many of these financial programs that the government is not able to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u61	Mr. President. This change in the Central Party proposal is made into four teams. It assumes that the government's carbon increase of 10% is not going to be effective, that insurance fees decline by 0.25% above what the government suggests. In addition, it is a government fund for sale on the property of the National Bank of the East and also on the cooperation of Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC, both contributions to 2 billion and 350 million. In addition, the first team is that the intention of wanting to go off to rent on environmental-friendly cars on the roads of cars. That's 60 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u62	Mr. President. As we support the Central Party's idea of an additional reduction in insurance costs, it is clear that space in terms of government funds in recent years has not been new to the taxpayers. However, we are opposed to plans to reduce carbon costs or to fall from the green elements of the art system presented here, and we do not consider the proposal to be sufficiently financed. So even if we strongly support the idea of reducing our insurance fees, we will vote against the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u63	Mr. President. This Senate document is making changes on the income side of the bill. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that among them, fishing costs are being dropped to five billion dollars. Government leaders are now accepting the ignominious fee they are expected to pay as a fish - making resource for the nation, the amount not even for service testing or monitoring the article. This is thrilling when we look forward to the greeting of great fishing projects, as did the United States, who have benefited well in recent years. Samherja's work in Iceland returned 8.7 billion dollars. Last year's profits, for example. It doesn't need strength from us, it doesn't feel want. However, there are too many people in this society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u64	A respectable president. This is 30 million because of two employees for the initiative investigation of the Allied agent. There has not been a shortage of concerns but has not gained enough time to care for. These studies are of utmost importance, especially for the independence of Generals' agent, that he can conduct initiative research. It's absolutely necessary. I'm sure there's 30 million that we can offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u65	Mr. President. This movement of the Central Party suggests that the construction of the Council Building will be postponed. The bill estimates the next year's activity to be 550 million. By postponing projects, you will save money for government funds, and then you will have the opportunity to revise these plans. In view of the lack of harmony with the board building itself and the street picture, the central Party gives full reason to do so. A planned construction of the Council of Government promises to the family of a so - called fragmented architecture that is thought to be a rough, inhuman, cold policy that usually arouses a lack of a positive outlook on people. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u66	Mr. President. The state has spread in the history of this government, and no attempts have been made to reduce the rate of state activities. The Independence Party has regularly cried out to elections: Drive away! Then, when the pack reaches power, the stall continues to grow. The Party now heads the Ministry of Economics and Economics and has the capacity to handle the situation as he has so many sermons. Rather, he adds to the Kingdom display as never before. The Central Party is putting together an adjustment form for government management. The motion assumes that 10% of the budget will be applied to the entire Ministry. It will return $1,100 million to the savings. More of the ministry depends on this vote box, which will be later shown in the vote. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u67	Mr. President. It is not often that we agree with the Central Party, but here we agree wholeheartedly. There is no need for any council on public affairs, and we support the whole mind of this proposal for additional government observance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u68	Mr. President. The drug problem is one of the most serious and difficult things in society. More powerful drugs have set foot here than ever before. Internet drug dealers are growing and making it easier for drugs to be available. It is proved that increasing drug control levels on the border are effective. To combat the import of drugs, customs need to be strengthened. The central category stresses adding funds to this important category. Moves the pack a turnaround to the budget bill that makes a special addition to 250 million. K. To improve the national drug control and national security, go to the customs manager's office. That's an explanation for his vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u69	A respectable president. Here's the Central Party expanding the hatch, but the Piratars have a much better and less expensive solution in these matters. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u70	Mr. President. We need to strengthen the institutions responsible for the evaluation of economic and tax lawlessnesss. Here we go in the United States to 60 million. K. to prevent legal damage and the wishes of the members of the Parliament on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u71	A respectable president. Research fund and Technical Development Fund are very well equipped. There are many applications in the funds that are very good and deserve distribution because the opportunities for this future are so obvious. There is so little in these funds now that applications are being rejected because there are spelling errors in them, there is nothing else, no other reason to reject an application, but something minor. So it is absolutely necessary, and especially at this time when we are going down in the economy, to contribute extra funds for research and innovation. That's absolutely basic. Well, I hope this gets the distribution point to 25%, based on this budget, but it should be in about Thirty percent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u72	Mr. President. The Group of Groups hereby contributes to a 1 billion increase in research and development, focusing on the Technologies, Research Fund, and Investment Fund. The fact is, with the government's financial bill, donations are reduced from year to year, to e.g. Note that the budget of the Research Fund was 2,470 million. K. In 2016 and have remained unchanged between the years, but now the bill is expected to decrease. Funds have not followed pay or prices development since 2016, and there is also a major concern for financial development funds. Is it particularly a concern that the government is about to reduce this time? I strongly encourage the council to support our proposal for innovation and employment on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u73	The president recommends that the senators who explain their vote vote vote votes before leaving their seats, especially if they have a long way to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u74	Mr. President. The budget's supposed to cut backs on films by 30%. That government emphasis is incredibly short - minded and really stupid. A very serious comment is presented by the industry's organization and by the European Film Manufacturers'Union. A movie and television team is important in Iceland, and each dollar returns a lot. In the last budget, the Conspiracy proposed a change in money into a so - called TV fund. This proposal was made by all VG members, forwarders, and the Independence Party. I can't believe that the same senators are going to submit to our suggestion to ensure the necessary funds to reimburse films. It is good economics and politicals to be more supportive with cultural activities such as TV and filmmaking. Our suggestion directly creates money, as culture so often does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u75	A respectable president. Here we are voted to give 150 million extra strength to our rural society to meet the need for the user-controlled personal assistance we call NAPA. We've been saying goodbye to this help. We're discrimination people, some people get, but others don't, so I'm putting these into your hands. I can't believe we can't agree that it's absolutely the last thing we can do to discriminate people about the necessary services they need. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u76	A respectable president. Here's a request to put $2 billion in place. increased law enforcement in the country. We're fighting a very rare drug epidemic. We're fighting an ignorant number of premature deaths. We are really fighting a threat in this regard. We have never had to face such things as this. People's classes always try to set priorities. And we say: There are two things government must do. There must be a universal order to ensure the safety of the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u77	Mr. President. In order to investigate crimes that are at the top of society as long as possible, police officers need. To keep the city safe, police are needed. We need more officers in this country. We need police on the streets. We need police at the desks. We need police at the cars. We need police all over the country. This modest proposal, my fellow allies, will solve the situation in which it exists, and I expect it to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u78	Mr. President. The budget must be prioritized to the police so that public law will be promoted. The success of public law and traffic surveillance is clear. There is also a powerful preemptive value to the public law on the highways of the country. The vision plays an important role in the security of the citizens and their sense of security. The government doesn't show much interest in this important issue and reduces contributions to the police on the bill. So the middle class proposes a change in the bill by 300 million. K. extra funding to promote law enforcement in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u79	Mr. President. What I want to draw attention to is that these suggestions even. expected to shut down the U.S. Marshal's parking center in the form we know her. I believe this change is taking a big step in the automobiles of the country. The system with which the U.S. Marshal's parking center had run its course, and most of the police agree on that change. In this way, the office can use the funds that have been placed in the parking matter of the office in recent years far better than has been done. The number of vehicles, the rate of driving, the increase in driving, and the number of visible law - enforcement services are much higher for the same or less money that is being used in the seminary today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u80	Mr. President. It's a great Senate home. The government suggested, or more, the legal committee, to add about 45 million to the district attorney for money. We landed on the gray list, remember, and that was a requirement to get off him that we'd increase the number of employees by three. These three employees who are now scheduled to go to the district attorney must not take up other cases in the house, be confined to nothing else, e.g. Not an investigation into payoffs in the south-southly. The district attorney's office will have to get more money to care for all the many jobs that the local district attorney is going to do, including testing tax fractions that are in a very narrow time frame. Hence, we contribute extra money there, confident that the members of the board will support our suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u81	A respectable president. This is called shrinking the booth, scraping out the church meeting as it pleases, throwing it out the window. It's against the Constitution and the law, this additional agreement. However, we leave a diocese, a bishop, and several employees in order to fulfill the regulations of the Constitution. I think there's 266 million. But this is a step that the Council must take, and the best opportunity is right now. It will never be more expensive for us to finish this case now and take it through the courts and such to decide if there's any responsibility behind it or not, never. It will always be more expensive to keep paying it to the infinite, always. So stop messing around.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u82	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. As shown, for example, a candidate is an ally in the struggle for segregation of state and church. ... becausewe'reinconsistenciessible proposals now. paritaprevir Jón Steindór, son of Valdimarsson, was in complete separation of state and church. Money, however, is not the place to achieve it, no more than sheep were the place to shorten high school for a year. The parish Act may be the right place, or it may be just a general bill on the universal law on religious and biological organizations, as proposed in the aforementioned synonym. And first we believe we are in accordance with the Constitution and the law, we cannot agree with law until we have discussed three discussions at the General Assembly. If we were to agree with this proposal, we would be going past that article of the Constitution, studying the terms of charges, and I'm not available, although I agree with the senator on the ultimate objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u83	Mr. President. I can agree with much in what is stated in the view of the 3rd minor part that backs up this adjustment proposal, but I can't agree that we will take steps in the separation of Church and State in this way. I give a Senate hearing that deals with this subject, where this full separation is expected, but that there will be a great deal of effort to achieve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u84	Mr. President. I'm a member of the United States Parliament. We're making a suggestion for a change in this team in the bill for financial purposes. The discussion of the structure of transportation has been high in the community, and no matter where your feet are killed, the need is crying. You can't let one chim on the outside. It is public transportation, either in the capital area or in the region. This, of course, is in harmony with the vision we have for the future, of advancing public transportation, and here we need to improve, and let us show it at once. We suggest that this aspect of the budget be added to 1 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u85	Mr. President. The city line and related projects are an important source of public transportation in the country and in the capital area itself. The Kingdom is already having a part in the construction of the city line, with a total contribution of 1.5 billion. In this business, there is thought to be plenty of people involved. Suggested what? Ágúst the Ólafur of Ágústsson, who made contributions to these activities, supported the lack of money from the state to that end, as if the members of the Parliament and the greater part of Reykjavík are not part of the same political party, not related in politics. [[Up front.]] In other words, Mr. President, the government's funds to prepare a city line are available, and there's no need to propose, so I vote against the proposal. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u86	A respectable president. Few things are now discussed in the entire inhabited earth more than environmental and climate. We here vote for these factors, and unfortunately, it is not possible to mean that the government takes climate change particularly seriously in action. We don't see that in this financial bill. It's a lot to talk about, but it's not enough. We need action, we need action. Although the climate of a ship may be A larger place here, but often in the past, there is a need to do better and good will and beautiful words. The prime minister is not sufficient to count on what is lacking in direct action. There's no mittens around here, and I'm challenging him. Congress now putting your hand on the green button, it actually takes not a whole hand but just one finger, to put climate into action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u87	A respectable president. The environmental problems are quite large and quite wide and quite costly. It's a small amount, and I'm not quite sure if it's operational for the next year because the government plan is sadly, you forgive, you're pretty poor, it's no cost, it's not prioritized, or prioritized, or anything like it, the things we've been given to see. So I don't know, maybe it'll just finish the operation plan, and it'd be just fine. I support this suggestion because it doesn't necessarily have to be used all the amount. It would be nice to have authority to complete what can be completed in the matter of failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u88	Mr. President. This proposal is a good price paying, for in no way sufficient for climate and environment in general at this government's policy. In this case, however, there is a very large amount of money, which is not financed by other measures in the cutoffs of the budget, so we cannot be so supportive of it. We would also have wanted to see it better accomplished on what this money should have been coming down. However, it underscores the ambitiousness of a local environmental government and the importance of improving its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u89	Mr. President. In 2040 the government is heading for the nation's noncarbonization. One of the foretold actions of the government is doubled in the new jungle industry in 2022. How does it work, Mr. President, to double the forest and at the same time cut down contributions to forestry? In addition, contributions to forestry should be greatly increased, since forestry is the most effective carbon - binding method. Therefore, the Central Party suggests that this deforestation will be corrected and suggest 30 billion. K. additional contributions to forestry
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u90	Mr. President. These funds are not being cut down on contributions to forestry. There's a big increase in the forestry industry. In addition, elsewhere in the changes from the greater part, there are 28 million available to support the forestry research. Therefore, I vote against this proposal, for it is unnecessary in my opinion. However, elsewhere in this vote, I will vote with the suggestion of a greater portion that is proposed for further deforestation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u91	A respectable president. I welcome the suggestion I support. That's 28 million for research in forestry. Here, so - called Mögils Years are back in the system. In particular, they are used to research because of forestry on farms and have done so over the years. This, of course, contains many things, and because Christmas is now starting to be cut down by Christmas trees, it has all the money. new to research for the breeding of Christmas trees. Of course, there's a lot of environmental issues that are not importing Christmas trees. We can grow all our Christmas trees within the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u92	Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there will be a total of 2 billion in research and monitoring of nature in Iceland. We all know why that is. This is both because there has been an increasing number of volcanic threats. We need only watch five main fire stations in a particular mode; we can also name an earthquake. However, this is very important because climate change increases in nature, as well as in these budgets, nearly 70 billion are being added. K. I encourage the whole world of Congress to vote for these proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u93	Mr. President. It's the little numbers, but they can still be important to those to whom they are to be received. I'd also like to, in view of what we just voted for earlier, mention the nature labs, there's a little bit of moving the money to the right place, and clear up the process. But below is an important job that we vote for, which is the Research Station Rif at Rausfa. It is of great importance to the preconceived nation, and it also involves international and important work. Since we're going to vote for the next few things, I'm going to decide that we're here under Iceland's Fly Museum, Vienna's mansion, Paul House, and Cities, which are of great importance to the small settlements in the scattered areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u94	Mr. President. This is 400 million. K. which is to be put in private media, i.e. Member States of the private media, as the proposal seems today. It is absolutely enough for us to have one member of the empire at a time when such things are really to be done forever. Like technology, there is no need to have a medium of government today, and something else has become. But we'll make a suggestion here soon, hopefully before 3. .. where we offer suggestions on how to improve the private media in a specific way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u95	A respectable president. I thank you for this opportunity to come here and express myself about 400 million to the U.S. press. I can say with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and will support this proposal, if it will fall, and then our proposal, too, but we in The Gang of the People have a similar suggestion. In view of what happened, I think it might be a good idea that we would say that it was important to have the powerful media. It's important to have research and press funds for research. In recent years, we have been exposed to the biggest issues that have come from the media. It would be a real challenge, Mr. Honorable President, that we would do it better the way I had planned to do, and spend these funds in a better way than put them in the private media and put them under the government line. If we want to promote them, we simply take the media out of a commercial market and bring in a live competition there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u96	Mr. President. Instead of engaging in a high education campaign that was referred to before elections, we see a decrease in the total amount of money between years. Thus, we contribute an additional $1 billion to secondary secondary secondary secondary secondary secondary secondary school to prevent reduction, including These institutions: University of Education, Reykjavík, the University of High School of Education, the Lofty Lake High, the University of Education in Akureyri, the University of Education, the School for Education, the School of Education in the East School of Education, the School of Education, the School of Education in the South, and the Fundamental school in Mofellsville. I can't believe the government's gonna cut down the real estates for these schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u97	A respectable president. Despite the foretold and multiplicity of education, it is not enough to take place in this bill. The Union is hereby offering suggestions for its improvement, i.e. to reach the goals we have all set for and are taught by OECD. Also, in this regard, I would like to mention in particular that Iceland's National Institute of Art has an inexpensive housing that needs to be fixed on the first. If this proposal of the United States is approved, which I have certain hopes for, perhaps may lead to improvement of that condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u98	President. It must now be admired for optimism. A senator before me. We on the revere support of this proposal of integrity, for the government's high level of education has been claimed to be empty. This is why we support this adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u99	Mr. President. This is a change in the money fund of Icelandic students to a wealth of education, a social support fund, and will increase equality in sponsorship. This is a significant step toward advancement and high education, even though people sit by here. There, single parents, family members, and students outside the capital area are being simplified to study. I expect a green button to be pushd rather than yellow, they want to see a great deal of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u100	A respectable president. Here, I'm going to join the 22nd class, secondary education, and unclassed education at school. You see, not all of us can classify ourselves to this traditional school level. This is a scholarship such as the Flaté, an important agency that was established last year, and it has been very joyful to observe how it has gone and were applications in that school far beyond what was accepted. But here we are also strengthening the Multihuman, Long-term Education and Knowledge Centre, the LungA on the Sundir, and a contribution to the ongoing education in the East Bridge. This is very enjoyable, for not all of us can classify ourselves in the systems to which we hear traditionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u101	A respectable president. This is no less than a Landspiral University Hospital, any specialised service not considered to be a public hospital service. There are tremendous requirements for the Hospital now. They are cutting down the ministry at about $3.3 billion. If there is someplace to protect money and setting priorities, our health will be affected. At this point, we must be able to agree that we must hold our hospital. Here we are talking about 4 billion bucks. to try to prevent the cut that has already been foretold in action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u102	A respectable president. The immediate service of the Land Hospital is hardly functional, and it has become quite dangerous. We're supposed to put more money on this, and it's getting worse. We'll make a deal and get some more nurses. They're taking away some of their binoculars, so we're supposed to add. It is our duty to make sure that all receive appropriate hospital service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u103	Mr. President. Because there is not enough money from the government to run a legal service, the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital are in trouble. However, the Lands Hospital of a University Hospital cannot dismiss people as other medical institutions have to do so that I say things to the highest degree. Secretary of the budget, there's something wrong with this system. The system doesn't work what the government wants. The system does not work because the government does not put enough money in medical institutions all over the country, so everything ends up on the floor of the Land Hospital where there are overcrowded departments, where the old people are lying in the hallway at the emergency room in Fos County, where people can't be discharged because they don't have nurses in other departments, because there's no room to be kept open because there's not enough money and money. That is why we will set up an additional amount of money at the National Hospital of ◆ a university hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u104	Mr. President. Psychiatric problems, especially young people, and especially drug abuse, are major problems. Recently, there was a special discussion on this subject, where there was a will for all who spoke of it to correct the way we could do it. We know that the situation is the worst of the Narcotics and Narcotics department and that the Land Hospital's mental centre has otherwise reached pain thresholds due to a reduction in ecstaticity. Hence, the Middle Ages and I contribute to a change in budget and an additional 100 million to the national hospital. I reiterate that after this good discussion that happened the other day, and good submerged and wanted, I believe that all the colors will be green. [[People can change their mind if they want to.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u105	A respectable president. Here's an investment contribution to a new Hospital dropped by 3.5 billion from what was previously planned in the bill. However, this will be the largest year of construction from the beginning, while 5 billion will be spent in 2020 in this most complex development of Iceland. The planned end of the procedure will continue in 2024, but new treatment cores will significantly change the state and function of the Land Hospital and the overall Health Organization. It's supposed to be a celebration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u106	A respectable president. The government still resorts to cutting down investments in order to finance its general payback celebrations. It must be a major concern for the construction of the Land Hospital if suddenly you can cut down the funding to the project as much as it really is, over 40%. I guess that means there's no progress in this project based on these plans. I find this explanation hard to buy, and it disappoints me that this important project is being slowed down for all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u107	A respectable president. It's cutting down construction at a new land hospital, but it should rather be spitin' in. There's a terrible situation in the hospitals. We know what the emergency room is like, we know about the disorder and the inconvenience around this building. Now that we've started building it and the foundation's about to rise, we should spit on it and finish it as soon as we can, but don't slow down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u108	A respectable president. It is an example of a slightly distorted priorities in relation to the fluctuation we are in, to reduce the success of projects that are supposed to increase the benefit, to reduce the problems we now face in the hospital. There seems to be a way to reduce the number of projects now and to increase the performance later. Why can we not increase the rate of construction this year and even be completed until 2024 with this project so that we can enjoy the benefits much more? I don't buy this explanation, but in other respects we support business contributions that go to the special hospital services proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u109	A respectable president. As shown here in my first vote, there are, in fact, no new decisions on the project is being made, but there were delays in the number of major tasks between the years. On the other hand, I would like to tell and draw the attention of a body of Congress to the fact that this is an additional hospital service between discussions on the bill itself of some 600 million in both special and public hospital services. This is indicated by the proposal that both the Land Hospital, the Hospital in Akureyri, and health care facilities are out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u110	A respectable president. This is where we vote on increased budgets for the accident of health care institutions in the country, on general medicine therapy, mental - care services, and specialist medical care. No matter where you look at the medical system, it is better if sufficient. A group of people have made adjustments. They all aim to keep separate from health and law enforcement and to maximise the lowest wage. Given the conditions in this area, we should be able to agree that if financial priorities are to be put first, people should be put in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u111	Mr. President. Health agencies all over the country suffer financial losses. It puts stress on staff but also a lack of health care for the inhabitants of the country. All institutions need additional funding, but especially the areas where population growth is the largest need to be considered. In the South, the number of inhabitants has increased by more than 30% in five years. At the same time, U.S. National Institutes for Health and Health have contributed to the rise in the country's population, much less than in the South. Each person sees that such treatment of 28,000 people is ill treatment and, in fact, completely incomprehensible. The 600 million of us in the United States say we should fix this situation something, and I'm really nervous. Senators to accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u112	Mr. President. As we know, health institutions in the country face many challenges. Our main problems include in the poor health care centres of recruiting doctors with permanent locally and on a large shift pressure resulting in a large amount of vacation time. The cost is high, and the government must take this into account in budgets for this important matter party. The middle class puts forth an amendment on the bill of 250 million. K. will be put to health institutions in the country to meet the most urgent problem, and of course, I expect to be very supportive of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u113	A respectable president. This is where we vote whether or not we should raise the money to move abroad, whether or not we should try to meet the Icelanders who prefer to live all over the country, but not at some particular place in the Great Reygúsvík area. One is glad that I'm going to point out that since I'm talking about the ambulances and they're under these teams, we're getting lots of new ambulances. I'm not putting any more pressure on you. Just a bunch of new ambulances, that's great. They even cost half as much as expected, so we are gradually beginning to renew our fleet. But you see, here we are putting 400 million down in an effort to secure the lives and members of the country better than at this time. How does a House of Congress get involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u114	A respectable president. There's a lot behind this suit. Hospital transporters have long complained that they need an ambulance school, i.e. A simple ambulance with all the tools and equipment to teach, practice, and reenact, and that can be taken around the country to keep people in practice. This is absolutely an essential step, they say, in order to maintain this education throughout the country and in response to the right and the good. Although it was only a matter of accepting this suggestion in order to get toward it, it is certainly possible to consider within this series of lawsuits to complete this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u115	A respectable president. Always fun being in my part here. No matter how suggestions come up, they're natural coal, and probably these are, no matter what the problem may be. It's under nursing and rehabilitation services and nursing and living space, rather than nothing. We're here trying to fight business problems in nursing homes. We're calling for support. Rather, we want to stop saving our money and throw away our crown by holding tens of our senior citizens in custody at a U.S. National Hospital, a non-sustained university hospital, because we don't have conditions for them elsewhere. Here we are talking about 2 billion bucks. to meet this major business problem, the better could be done. I mean, I'm asking for a roll call, but I'm thinking about letting it go because it doesn't take it, you're smiling at all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u116	A respectable president. This is one of those things that are starving, and nursing homes have been starving for many years. What was the result of the budget bill? Yes, there is to be another committee to take a look at this, to consider what to do in these matters when it has been demonstrated, that the community of welfare services has been shown repeatedly, that there is no money in there. But it's like everything in this government. They've already found wide banks. There are older citizens and poor people, and there can always be cutting and leave behind for financial purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u117	Mr. President. Last year, 15 of the nursing homes that were involved in the EU Medical Insurance Convention had negative yields, a total of 350 million. K. The General approved a special budget for a serious position of less than 300 million. K. Last year, however, the amount approved by the Council was lost in seawater or found trapped in the hands of the government of the government. This year 26 out of 30 nursing homes are heading for a negative supply by the end of the year. Total will be 850 million. K. I suggest that this time the situation will be right, not just by accepting the adjustment, but by returning the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u118	Mr. President. This is where we vote for 800 million. K. extra supply to nursing and nursing homes. It is in itself an excellent idea for the government to have a growing number of nurses, nursing homes, but there is an incredibly low priority that is involved in adding less than one that cannot bear. What is particularly painful about the circumstances they are today is that it differs from the way these homes are expelled. In some cases, the flag directly affects rural communities that compete with other rural communities, who will have to step out of other community services and take over to some of the government's homeyards. I can't believe it's the highest. The health minister will not support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u119	A respectable president. It's a drug epidemic in Iceland today. We have never faced another as challenging as we do right now. There are 800 people waiting for their first service to go to the hospital Vig. It is our duty to accept addiction as a disease. It is our responsibility to help people when they pray for and need their help. I'm asking for 400 million. K. • providing support, protection, and special attention to reaching out to these models, bringing our people back into society, providing hope, giving them support, and wiping out all prejudices against the disease, as I feel it is admittedly often and the times have been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u120	Mr. President. It's wintertime and morning cold all over us. Let us, then, consider some facts. The Red Cross's assistant phone receives less than three phone calls a day because of suicidal thoughts. In Iceland every ten days, suicide is committed. Then again, every ten days another Icelander dies from drug abuse, all year round. Self - injury among young people has increased and has globalised Icelanders on the use of antidepressants and anxiolytics. A PUBE's waiting days have never been so long. They have never been so long in history. This proposal of the United States is modest and will not put anything on its side. I beg members of Congress to support this proposal for an increase of money to the United States. This proposal will mean much more to S.A. and their wonderful work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u121	A respectable president. This is where we are in The Gang of the People, raising the budget for disability, for another year is left to the poor, and poorer and older citizens are left behind. Another year and a third of them will not be cut off, as has been done with older citizens, and another year is being dropped financially. It sucks to know that year after year there are poorer and older citizens left behind. Everyone's had a taste for uplifting, all but seniors and cripples. We do well to ask ourselves in this hall: " How in the hell is it that these are the only parties who are supposed to have large banks and the only ones who still have, after the collapse, and all, to tighten the jam chairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u122	A respectable president. In the past nine years, the rate of disability has been neither greater nor less than 30%. Is it not ironic that the only social group that confronts 30% of people are the society's most troubled group? The people's party is to offer more than enough support. We want no pay paid under 300,000 bucks. per month, tax and inadequacy. All the matters we are calling on for financial support are in an effort to meet our smallest brothers and sisters. Of course, it would be better to place 100 million here and 200 million there and 300 million in the other. But the important thing is that out of 22,000 microchips, we have 70% hunger lice available for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u123	Mr. President. We supported a motion from the mob just before to improve the rate of disability but now make a rather modest suggestion that I wish the senators to think about. This is an additional disability development that has been greatly delayed. If we compare the ideal micromanagement today with the ideal disability rate ten years ago, pure figures, this certainly looks inhuman. Then, too, we need to compare the figures with the public now and ten years ago. You see, disability is falling back, even to the worst, to the minimum, to the temporary worker. At next year, it appears that the basic wage for disability will be 90,000 dollars. less than a minimum wage in the country. We are there, Mr. President, leaving disability entirely behind. I ask members of Congress to consider if it's the message they want to send to micro-organists in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u124	Mr. President. Work hard to strengthen the potential for disabled people and disability to participate in a workforce. For a decade, the four - income limit of the industry has remained the same. The system must be built up so that it is the real benefit of working for the people it can provide. This means that excessive impairment must be reduced with all its chain-acting and harmful effects. The central category here suggests a change to the budget bill about 325 million. K. contributes to the up-to-date job markets of microorganism. I remind you, Mr. President, the budget of the Central Party is completely financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u125	Mr. President. V.E.G. Government and what. Government officials force their children's families in the country to pay for child damages and to be cruelly reduced. The government groups have repeatedly submitted the Commission's suggestions on child reform and change of criteria. Our suggestions are to reduce revenue, as is the case in the Norwegian countries. V.E.G. On the other hand, a government looks for role models in these matters at the International Cash Fund. At the recommendation of the statesmen, child reforms begin to occur at 325,000 bars. in a month next year, and because of the lack of income, children are granted the right to average income no child benefits. Despite the unambiguous effects of child improvement, the system has been allowed to collapse over the past few years and now at present. Councilmen left green, advance and Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u126	Mr. President. Here we are creating a considerable rise, of 1.3 billion, in breeding orbs, and fortunately. There must be good news that because we are growing, we needed to improve. People are having more children and more to pick up. It's also, of course, that we're increasing the months of vacation and we're raising the payment goal so that I think everyone should be very positive about this and vote with this proposal, because we all have to want children as best in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u127	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says that this is a very positive step. It is totally in harmony with the government covenant to raise the roof of the womb and also extend it. This is 1.3 billion, and I believe we can all agree to vote with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u128	V.E.G. President. This is also a very good proposal from a greater portion of the legal committee. This means that 30 million people will be assigned to the ART project, which is a very important project to deal with children who have problems. That's 30 million. K. a temporary donation, including 18 million. K. a temporary contribution to the Africa team, to sexual and domestic violence. I assume the U.S. Congress agrees on this proposal and votes with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u129	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. A senator here spoke. I think it's important that these projects become more effective with the problems. We made the last budget to direct it to the Department of Social Affairs that he would take under his wing of the Afghans, who perform a role comparable to that of kurrent in Reykjavík, a very important job. There's no need to bring a cup of bets to the budget every year, and I hope we'll be successful this year. I'm not going to delay this vote long by coming up often, but afterwards we're also paying the Grosses at Akureyri grants and the Conspiracy '78, a special important organization that's doing a great and powerful job. They applied to us for the first time, especially because we agreed on the sex - self - control laws, which are important and will likely become even more powerful in the work of these organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u130	V.E.G. President. Work hard to strengthen the potential for disabled people and disability in a public labour market. The Icelandic labour market does little or nothing to people with impaired skills, and it is urgent to correct them. Increasing participation by individuals with reduced employment skills reduces the risk that people who go to the disability pension can easily get caught in the trap of poverty and worse quality of life to the future. The Central Party suggests a change in budgets for the budget bill that the Labour Office is provided with an additional budget of 200 million. K. to further improve this important resource and increase the number of disability contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u131	Mr. President. In this team, we're voting on a few things. This is a provision for a temporary increase in the payment of a remuneration fund. It is being given 25 million because of the increase in the number of values given by the surgeon's office, including the surgeon's office. so that you can work on recognition of professional education and appropriate health care professionals. And then, like a whisk. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier, receiving the '78 Syndicate here at 20 million in the strength I believe is very important, since there is a tremendous and necessary counseling and supportive instruction, including: for young people coming out of the closet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u132	A respectable president. There are these small projects here and there, the ART project, the Power and whatever this is called all, and now also '78, which is a very good price. However, this was a project that was once in the Ministry of Ministry of about 15 million. As far as I'm concerned, 20 million are not being added in conversations with people, not with the '78 organization. The amount of information that I get is not going up to 35 million in total, so there's an overall increase of 5 million, not 20 as this one says. It's true of all these small projects here and where it's simply such, and has been well established, that the Ministry is deliberately holding these tasks outside the budget so that a budgetary committee and Council can pick them up like a knight who comes to rescue a white horse. This isn't the way it works anymore. It is the responsibility of the advisers to take these assignments if they are performing the community service that is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u133	Mr. President. There's an additional 300 million here. K. in recent development cooperation. We discussed when votes were paid for a spring financial programme that would bring this money back into the budget by 2020. They are doing so here, and they're working on what the Treaty says about making contributions for development cooperation increasing as a proportion of land production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u134	A respectable president. Here in spring, financial deduction programs were 300 million compromised by development cooperation in defense. The money has been reassigned to developing cooperation, but the remaining 300 million remain to ensure the civilian defences at Keflavourfield. The current activity is too great, and the news of the summer's billions of development planned by the United States at Keflavourville does not help. In spring, I did not support this structure by my vote, nor do I now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u135	Mr. President. Now, almost at the end of this vote, I want to draw attention to the fact that one more year, all the adjustments made by the anti - political parties have been made. I was surprised at these tactics. In many cases, large amounts, perhaps 30, 60, 100 million, are not being talked about. These are incredibly peculiar practices. We've been on our way, including. in a government contract, and on the part of the Ministers, we're going to adopt other tactics, and then we're just gonna see an old-fashioned gunfighting bitch reflected in the payment of a budget. It is surprising, Mr. President, that not one of the Continents' proposals is given the support of senators of the left green, forward, and the Independence Party. When do we get to see this new business? Wasn't it supposed to promote the council? Or does it just reach this part of the room, not the other one? I would like to express great disappointment in that we do not see any support for any of the suggestions we are making here, as many of these suggestions are in complete harmony with even the suggestions of individual senators whom they offered when they themselves were in a position of government. Seeing this transition in human rulership is a source of incredible disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u136	A respectable president. Here we are adding to borrowing as many as 5 billion to the credit fund of Icelandic students because of the academic education fund. This financial bill is taking 3 billion from the LIN, and it has to use some of its own money to live up to it. Then there was a circle of 3, 4 or 5 billion that was thrown back and forth. First three were taken, then four, and then five more are added to the loan. This is really weird. I can't quite figure out this ringy shit. It looked a little bit like it was just sorting the numbers to be at least zero. Three to minus, four to plus, five to minus? This doesn't work, a respectable president. I look forward to seeing this follow-up with a budget job because this is one of the issues that clearly explain what you're trying to do, and it's gonna be really interesting to watch how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u137	A respectable president. Here's a new feature: Selling the patrols Madg and Ty and buying or renting more efficient ships instead. If that happens, we're even worse off. After all, it is more expensive. So we're accepting a warrant that's going to have to come up with a bill to get clearance and then we're going to end the budget in even more minus. This is a very exciting team here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u138	Mr. President. A greater proportion of the budget is making a few adjustments to the 6th paragraph. Permissions. I would especially like to welcome someone who comes in, suggests 6,25, to rent or buy a house that is useful as an expansion of the airport in Akureyri Airport. I'm really celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u139	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The visit to Friðbertsson Frünbertsson and its special warrant for 625, to rent or buy a home that is useful as an expansion of the Air Force Base. There we are agreeing to one key piece to the implementation of government policy on distribution of tourists, more intensive public transportation, and more powerful national settlements across the country. But I'd also like to call attention to the extraordinary results we're achieving. We're making budgets on the day we came along in the fall, putting them on 2. Um, and it's at least a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u140	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the stock market, payment and electronic financial registration. The bill's on the roof. 440, case No. 370. This bill was employed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs with assistance from the Commission's appointed key economic authorities, which includes the legalisation of Regulation No. 909/2014, about the improved stock collections in the European Union and the stock market. Today is the day of law No. 131/1997, on the electronic registration of stocks that are also involved in the work of stock centres. The bill suggests that a set of laws that the Regulation does not cover will be implemented by the current regulations in terms of stock markets, payment and electronic financial registration. Rather, there are laws on the registration of financing and its legal protection. Other than that, the law No. 131/1997, on the electronic registration of stocks, fall away. The main focus of the bill is, first, that there will be stricter requirements for the operation of stock markets and financing funds. All financial improvements covered by the Regulation shall be in electronic format and will be in the EEA territory coordinated as business day plus two days. Second, changing the management standards of stock markets, risk management, and rich personal requirements. All EU labour centres must apply for a new work permit based on the Regulation that will apply to the entire EEA. Third, stockbrokers are given added responsibility to reduce failures by making fines and purchases. They should then monitor failures and send a surveillance report on all cases. Fourth, the registration of funds and the legal protection it includes, as well as the damage to the responsibilities of the stock markets and the bank accounts. The bill expects the UN to monitor the work of stock centres. The FEC will have standard control clearances, but the cut-offs that will go on the longest will be the re-vocation of an application and the application of a management ticket. Then it may be a fine or a prison for up to two years to work as a non-employment stock centre, to obtain an unregistered permit, to keep a financial requirement, or to violate the rules of confidentiality. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will influence the activities of the stock markets and the stakeholders involved in making financial contributions. The bill is designed to improve financial growth and thus reduce the financial risks. In that case, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u141	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the conversion of Congress laws and registration laws and real estate evaluations. The bill suggests the necessary changes to ensure that electronic declarations can begin in accordance with the existing project programme. By the legislation on the change of terms, electronic transaction laws, and other electronic services, and the law on the extra payoffs of state funds, No. 151/2018, was authorized to automatically cancel and with electronic entry rights and related duties according to document. The law went into effect on April 1, 2019. Since that time, there has been a preparation for the induction of e - mails so that the technology we have today can be used and the implementation of plagiarism. The aim is for the introduction of the first stage before the end of 2018 and for e-mailing to start with a document resolution. In order to start the first phase, it is necessary to state a clear authority to cancel documents via an electronic entry. Document declaration includes an operation to obtain a document from a plagion, so that an owner's possession, which is a key element of the synoptic document, will be removed from his owner's property. Today there are justifiably two methods of reporting documents, one by resolution of specific declarations to confirm the deportation of the estate and the other by signing the original writings of the document, which were announced by Congress that it may be canceled. The work force is in part electronically in the form of an electronic book, but it does not offer self-exploited requests, such as the required changes. The bill presented here provides a basis for increasing the effectiveness of the plagion system by allowing financial institutions and other rights to cancel documents electronically in the Senate Information System. The right to cancel a document in a special declaration form will not be sent to the county office itself for payment, but its main points will be written into the system by the publisher through a specific service guide and sent to the Parliament. The right to cancel a document by signing its original document on affidavit will self cancel the document in the plagionary system instead of handing it over to the businessman with an autograph on its disclosure. It is suggested that the declaration of an electronic entry in the Regulation will be discussed in more detail, including the information required of the registration and other aspects of the process. It is expected that a request for affidavit will be sent to the head of the Parliament via a web service associated with its members, as well as to which they are authorized to connect with the web service, allowing them to make a special service contract for its use. The bill also suggests changes that make it clear that the mortgage and insurance bonds are the same as ever before. Encountering Track No. 151/2018 dropped the above separation, but it is reasonable to reimburse it, since the standard document declarations will not completely fail in the near future. It is thus assumed that whenever a change in gambling is done on the basis of a document, whether it is a document or a title letter, a declaration of a change in bail is not made unless the bond itself or its rescription, with a visa on the change, is shown and handed out to the head of Congress. This change does not affect the implementation of synonyms through any form of electronic entry. V.E.G. President. The basis for espionage and emancipation to take place is that the owner's claim under a signed book is correct. Otherwise, he will not be able to make changes in his rights through a political description of an electronic entry, such as reference, weather change, or changing terms. According to Article II's preliminary directive of the Parliamentary Code, patients should be corrected according to bondbooks other than their bonds in the Constitution book. Most of the bonds of debt are owned by financial institutions, pension funds, and public agencies, and this was a procedure by law No. 151/2018 that correction of these bodies should be carried out by computer vehicles. As a basis for correcting the registry of the Member States according to Article II's preliminary rules in the Declaration Act, it has been found that the above panels require direct contact with the Constitution book so that correction can be carried out in a reliable way. Correction of the claimants' registration is essential for the development of electronic declarations and declarations, and the importance of it being carried out in a simple and efficient way through electronic solutions and with no additional cost for members of the Parliament. To handle this, the bill suggests that the above demands are granted free access to mechanical queries for a limited period of time due to the correction. In the absence of a single intervention procedure, the bill of law No. 151/2018 is aimed at making money because of these changes. Iceland's national registry is assigned to regulate the access of the demands of the crews to the telecommunications and provide a service contract for the operation. V.E.G. President. The introduction of e-mails takes a very important step in developing society's infrastructure and production of digital technology in administrative and business. It is hoped that increased self - control will bring benefits to all who come to the synods and build their rights on plagiarism, whether it is the office of the politicians, demands, or others. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u142	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the informant's protection. The background of work on this bill is derived from the synopsis No. 23/138 of 16 June 2010, of Iceland's developing a legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. In fact, the Senate didn't specifically mention the protection of the informants, but in its b-a team it says that it should be regarded as the lawgivers of other countries with the aim of uniting the best of what happens, we can say, in these matters, to create a special position in the realm of expression and information freedom. In order to implement the directive, a training team, then employed by the minister of Education and Culture, which is exactly the same as it says, considered whether there were materials to establish laws to protect the informants of this country. This control group continued in the next terms and was specifically considered whether the legislation could be initiated which would only apply to public employees. In fact, such cases were held in the Constitution of the then Supreme Court. Prime Minister for a while, but there was no legalization. Then, on March 16, 2018, I appointed as prime minister to be reformed legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom, which includes: was assigned to continue to cooperate with the results of the control group. Then the commission was given to consider suggestions related to the freedom of expression by public employees and, according to their cases, their obligation to report crimes or violations of the ethical principles they are to accept in their professions. Finally, the committee should evaluate what other adjustments might be desirable in this regard. On this basis, the Commission began a study on whether it was right to write a draft of bill for the protection of the informants and was the beginning point of identifying the current legal situation in Iceland. The protection of the informants has to do with the freedom of expression that has been spent with 73rd. The Constitution and 1 0... The European Convention of Human Rights is an unbreakable bond. Enlightenment is in all cases a form of expression and these principles allow limitation of expression. Limitations that go further to create unjust treatment or the unjust treatment of those who have expressed themselves in this way may result in cooling effects that prevent others from stepping in and expressing themselves. The European Court of Human Rights has established that a certain source of protection lies in Article 10. The European Convention of Human Rights, which has legal value in this country. In the case of Moldova, an officer of the attorney general for the district attorney Moldavia was given jobs to distribute two documents to the press, which the employee claimed to show that a member of the United States had stepped between himself and a criminal body. The question is, Guja versus Moldova in 2008. The worker was later dismissed, but the European Court of Human Rights felt that the resignation was incompatible with the terms of the Treaty that the limitations of freedom of expression need to be necessary in a democratic society. The case was thus about a government employee, but the court has later used the same methodology in terms of the general labour market. It has not been tested in Icelandic courts to what extent the informant's protection is in the law of freedom of expression 73 C.E. The constitution. On the other hand, on the basis of the principle of the sanctity of freedom of expression, there have been laws of various scattered laws related to the subject. The top priority is a code of confidentiality, but regulations have also been provided to support employees' rights to expose undesirable aspects of their employers'activities. On the basis of government personnel, the highest level is 13. a The staff law, No. 70/1996, which came into law 2010, under the directive it is forbidden to have an employee account for the relevant activities of lawbreakers or violations of the protocols that he has come across in his profession. The law is pronounced, and it has not been tested to any extent. Then there was a new 18th floor. Act on the Generals' agent added a law on the office of last year linked to an OPCAT agent appointed to represent the government. Those who have information or data on violations of law, careful administrative procedures, protocols or other regulations and procedures in the activities of those who fall under the authority's domain were allowed to consult the office and report such matters. A new X section of the administrative law, which entered this year's legislation under the bill that I proposed in the last council, the freedom of expression and the secrecy of public employees, says that under confidentiality, there is no way anyone can be informed about lawbreakers or other condemned conduct by government officials. Finally, there are various widely distributed laws related to the protection of informers in specific fields but not in total laws on the subject. I'd like to mention that the senators' projections on the protection of the informants have been brought at the council, first a bill of changing laws to protect the confidentiality of the media and their sources and to protect government officials and rural society through the use of information in the interests of the public good, as it was said. The case was given at the 130th legislature, in the winter of 2003◯2004, and was reassigned to 132, and 133. At that time, the bill on sharing information and protection of the informants was moved to the 141th legislature and reassigned to the 143, 144, and 145th legislative Council, but it also did not end. When the protection rules for informers are scattered and blurred, as they are today, there are two types of dangers. First, when there is a real need for information and therefore public interest requires uncertainty about whether or not they will be protected. Second, there is a risk that employees could mediate information where this is not appropriate without considering the legal terms for daily speech called leakage of information. It should be noted that clear laws on the subject do not prevent these dangers. If successful, however, both groups of employees can be reduced, i.e. Provide protective workers to step forward where this is appropriate and to awaken other employees to consider that confidential information must only be available outside the workplace to meet certain conditions. For these reasons, various international institutions have recommended that countries establish clear and complete laws for the protection of informers. These include OECD, the European Economic and Development Convention, the Protection of payoffs, which were discussed earlier today and was revised in 2009, taking into account the protection of informers by Member States. OECD work group issued an announcement in 2015 that declared disappointment in Iceland that it had not fulfilled these regulations. Then the Council of Europe sent forth the proposals of 2014, which included: it is stated that the principles for the protection of the informants should reflect a complete and clear approach to encourage the communication in the interests of public interest. GRECO, an anti-corruption organization, has suggested to Iceland to establish informers among law enforcement personnel. At last, the European Union has recently agreed with a directive, which was considered to be its decision in the preparation of the bill. A European Union memo from April 2018 reports that ten Member States have established a whole set of national legislation on the topic, i.e. United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Slovakia, Sweden, and Hungary Then, in 2007, the Norwegians put in an up - to - date protection code for informants into their OSH law. That same year, total law went into force in Sweden. GRECO's latest version of defense against corruption in Finland revealed that the legislation to protect the informants is being implemented. Thus, it is clear that the kingdoms we prefer to compare with us have either decided to go this way or to go this way, except Dana. In 2015 a Danish Ministry group suggested that, in place of a total law, the law in which there is a special need would be distributed, which conflicts with the principles and suggestions and tips given to the international institutions I have traced. In view of all of this, the Commission decided that freedom of expression, media, and information is responsible for starting a bill for the overall protection of informers who would take care of both the public and the private sector. A law given only to public workers was considered to pass over, and the committee gave me a bill on February 26th. after an open discussion of government confidentiality. In 1st. The bill is its range of values, and its goals are described. It says that its terms apply to employees who differ in good faith from information or provide data on violations of law or other condemned practices in their employers'activities, whether at the public or in the private market. Of course, there are terms that require further explanation, including. this is why a few hours have passed since the bill came out of consultation because it received indications, including for definitions of terms that we considered proper to be in order to form what is involved in the introduction of good faith and what is included in other reprehensible ways. The report is now detailed on the term "good religion " and has to state that the employee must have good reason to count the information he is publishing as well as that it is in the interests of the public to share them and that he has no other option to prevent such practices. Workers who deliberately share false or misleading information about minor variations in order to attack their employers or others are thus not protected by the bill. The concept of a highly recommended way of life is explained especially by a way in which social interests are put at risk without a clear violation of rules. Thus, it is not required for an employee to be able to point to a specific law being violated as long as the enlightenment is truly in behalf of the greater interests of the public. Then, in the bill, there was a distinction between the above - mentioned internal and external exposure. An internal revelation refers to information being transmitted either at the workplace or to the official person that can contribute to the loss of manners that the enlightenment makes possible. Official employees are expected to be obliged to report such a report when warning of illegal or reprehensible practices. Defined are three main messages of communication to the official Rapporteur, i.e. to the Directorate of the General Assembly and to the National Reconclusions on the Official Workplace and for the Office of Work, on the general labour market. These parties are expected to play a key role in implementing the regulations of the bill and are proposed to include a law on State Review and the Labour Board of Directors, which is now under the regulations of the General Assembly. However, an employee can consult other parties where this is appropriate, e.g. the surgeon general's office regarding the violation of health care, etc. It is expected that, in extreme circumstances, information would be permitted to be transmitted to outsiders, including the media. That is why there are far more difficult conditions than internal exposure. It is either a matter of internal exposure to a violation that may be a prison punishment to be experienced or otherwise shared with information so that employers' interests and even others must simply be replaced. I view this as a very narrow exception rule and that much has to be done to ensure that such communication is protected by the bill. If the bill's criteria for exposure are met, the employee will be protected in a number of ways. He will not be convicted of violating confidentiality or confidentiality. It will not be done to pay damages for any damage that may result from the exposure. It is not permitted to employ the employee's rights for repairs, e.g. To resign from his work or to reduce his rights. In other words, it is forbidden to let him be treated unjustly. If an employee is likely to have been treated unjustly, the employer is showing that a decision is based on opinions other than that it communicated information according to the regulations of the bill. If this proof is not taken, the right of an employee is not to be taken into account for the damage done to both financial damage and failure. It is expected that employees will receive abduction in judicial cases that may have been caused by such cases. The reason? Yes, employees are normal individuals who often face money companies and may not be able to hire lawyers at their own expense in order to protect their interests. The bill recommends that the sufferers be punished for unjust handling of informers. However, it was not thought that the law's general penalty will be the penalty for the time being accepted into the State Review Act and at work, as it is now under the authority's law. In other words, it is reasonable to believe that the treatment of these agents who are expected to become primary sources of exposure will be adequately used to punish employers or others. Finally, it is recommended that the workplace with 50 employees or more should set up specific rules for handling procedures in the recording of employees. The European Union Directive contains a similar provision. I think it is proper to assume that in Norway the workplace with five employees or more needs to set such rules. Due to the co-administration of I decided to set out in accordance with the European Union directive. In time, I can see that this obligation will be extended and taken to other workplaces. The financial and economic secretary will handle the government's personnel business and will, according to the bill, establish rules for government agencies and citizens on public property. Companies should set rules for the workplace, which they hear in view of basic rules for social independence. The work programme supervises the implementation of this arrangement and sets the pattern for rules that can be adopted by the workplace without much change. A respectable president. This bill is suggested as the first universal act of protection of informers in Iceland. Such legislation is always burned to the point of weighed the interests of the individual employers, including public institutions, of confidentiality, and of confidentiality against the important interests of society in general, that information about unwanted behavior and lawbreakers should come as early as possible to the relevant parties. It is my opinion that the news we had this week shows that there is a great need for a justice protection for those who want to come forward and share information to prevent it. As I took steps earlier, law will never protect informants from all the negative consequences of exposure. There will continue to be personnel who will not appear and share information required by society to prevent serious lawbreakers and legislation cannot prevent individual employees from deciding to leak confidential information, but the regulations of the bill are in my opinion to support both groups and reduce them. I'd also like to say that this is the last bill that enters the council based on a committee's work that I appointed early in 2018 for the protection of the freedom of information, expression, and media, I remind you, the faint name was, and most of these bills have been fulfilled. One of them, however, was very controversial, concerned with hate speech, and was not successful at the council, because of the fact that there was a certain point of view, one of the other of freedom of expression, and the other of protecting vulnerable minority groups. However, a bill related to data storage was identified, but it was shown that more work was needed for that bill, including in agreement with the police, with the main interest in the police at any given time. Otherwise, I think that other bills have made progress at the council, which is enjoyable, and I hope this bill gets it too. I also believe that the changes that have been made on the bill following a discussion of the government's open language that made comments, mainly from the metropolis of industry. I believe that the word came from that comment, so I hope that this bill will be achieved by then. Congress members and I will pass through the council because I believe this will be a great act of justice, and I'll make a firm team of other primes that the Council has taken care of in the past eight years. So, Mr President, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd over. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u143	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The prime minister for the timely and important bill to come, as she correctly stated, into the context of many of the projects that have been worked and improved the marvelous protection of expression freedom, freedom of information, and the media in Iceland. But it's nice to mention that I hope that the data storage bill comes back. I don't think it's okay for the police to have access in some way to information that automatically collects all communications at all times. This bill doesn't quite cover everything. It covers corporate employees and similar. That would have helped the small telephone operator, such as. not Jóhannes, the son of Stefánsson, who revealed the Samaritan language. This does not include external bodies, outside enterprises or institutions, which cover information and do not cover foreign sources that could have information about national security, government interests, or Icelandic interests in the case of lawbreakers. As a result, I want to ask the highest. Whether it would be possible for this bill to work on creating a complete informant bill or an addition to it, which would hopefully be a law, covering the specific points that turn, e.g. to foreign or foreign sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and would like to add, so I'm right, that one more bill has not been completed either. This is a review of the 2011 press law. I set up a bill that winter, and I believe, in fact, that some laws require their review, considering that this was the first total law on the media. A number of important findings came in that built on the council resolution from 2010, e.g. About the protection of sources. As I mentioned earlier, there is still work to be done. You're absolutely right. A senator points to, this bill is based on the public and general labour market. Why? Yes, we were looking forward to the best outcome in the Northern countries and on the other hand, the European Union directive. So it doesn't cover, like cot. A senator rightly mentioned former employees, such as the Samaritan ex - employee. A senator mentioned specifically. It would not include those who simply witness to something they feel would be right to reveal without having a job. I don't think it's impossible for us to consider the other, but the reasons why this is the way the bill is presented are that we're based on other countries' legislation and the European precedents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u145	Mr. President. It is proper and important that we look at existing examples, especially where the matter is about labour market law. Dutch legislation, the highest. A minister referred to earlier is a very good example of things that have worked out well. This is a very good step and I'm not in any way criticizing it. I'm just looking forward to the bill turning into the law. I think it's important that we start talking to get this second thing. Especially in those cases, since I listed foreign parties, if there were anything that involved the interests of the State abroad, we have seen in recent years many examples that the people have presented information, not necessarily to Iceland, but to other countries that have protected the national security and interests of the State in other parts of that country. The informants who then expose them have been in a lot of trouble, in terms of personal, legal, and general security. I don't know exactly how to guarantee them some kind of legal protection, but this is a case in which, in some cases, there might be tension between Iceland and another state, but we need to weigh those conditions. In any case, I think it's important that we create some kind of law against this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u146	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator considers this a positive step. I think so, too, but it's absolutely accurate, as I mentioned earlier, that it reaches the labour market. I mentioned the past of the North and the European Union. I can also name OECD, who is approaching the issue from this friendship. I find that interesting. A senator says about a different kind of whistleblower. We have many famous examples of such exposés that have been connected to Iceland. I think it would be good to do that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education discussed this and even discussed the case in a committee study. Without telling the board what to do, I think it's important to discuss whether the committee wants to look into this further and even direct some recommendation to the Commission. I find this interesting to consider. I hope, however, that the bill will succeed and, so I'll just declare less than the sincerity of hope, preferably that during therapy the conditions will not be tight, but I believe that we have responded very well to comments. I think it would be very good if the case was taken care of, at least so that the conditions would not be further confined to contemporaneous treatment. The other is something that I think is worth a lot of attention for us to continue talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-14-32.u147	The President has received a letter on the revocation of a synonym. Jón Valdimarsson again calls a synonym on a threshing floor. 365, case 322, on the improved legal status of family abuse victims during the breakup.
