ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u1	There have been a letter received from the health minister and social and child - care minister where request is made to provide written answers to filing questions. 1032 and 1034 of the magazines and other media subscriptions from Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u2	There is a arrangement for the arrangement of the previous siege. the financial programme of 2020-224 which will be today and tomorrow, followed by the final tour Thursday morning. Today, there will be a general debate over the financial program following the history of financial and economic ministers. After that, Prime Ministers will participate in discussions about individual lawsuits tonight and tomorrow. Financial and economic ministers have up to 15 minutes to their reporting and become allowed duration of response, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups can give a reply to a minister's speech. After that, one spokesman speaks from each body of Congress. Then, in that part of the discussion, you will be allowed to answer, using standard speech rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u3	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis of the budget budget for 2020,2024 that has been distributed on the roof. 1181. A proposal for an arrangement for financial planning for the next five years is now proposed on the basis of official financial legislation. This plan is a second plan of the government and is basically based on current financial and financial policies. It thus includes implementation of the aims of the last financial and financial policies and of the revenue policies, the pay and the economics of public agencies, i.e. Part A, part of a country, and a community, and a business owned by them. This means that the objective of recovery and debt development should be the same in the financial programme as in financial policy, which was submitted by this government in December 2017 and adopted in March. year. The financial programme is set up an integrated government income programme, but particularly for the A-part of the State Fund and rural communities. The programme also puts in a budget and aims for each topic field in the activities of the A-part State Fund, but in this way it is intended to create a clear link between the professional objectives and the resources spent on individual causes of acidification. Budget policy and plan include public members in general, i.e. State, rural society, government companies. As far as government business is concerned, it is the common responsibility of the state and community to ensure that decisions are made in accordance with the economic objective and that they are in general, especially that investments are smaller when it is high and vice versa. A respectable president. We've been working on financial programmes to make diagnostics that would lead to various developments, e.g. In Iceland, a plane crash. Thus, there are some uncertainty factors that we have been exchangeing our views recently, which may influence change, but financial plans are based on current economic forecasts. There will continue to be uncertainty, and if possible they will need to be addressed. It will undoubtedly be part of today's discussion and the convocation treatment, but it is our first time to publish the budget of the existing one. How the workforce adapts is also an important factor. What will be the result of a contract made there? These are all factors that we do not know the final conclusions when we begin this discussion here today. However, the impact of the flight management situation could be considerable on both net export income, possibly on the cost of the currency, on the labour market and inflation in the country. We are a small economy, which is sensitive to the use of tobacco, but it is also flexible, as it has been, and this economy has quickly been adapted to the changing circumstances. A small reduction in the number of tourists is expected in the economic premiums that are resolved in a financial programme. In the event that they are further reduced, the underlying basis for the programme will be re-established. V.E.G. President. Next time, I'll go to plan something. As I learned earlier, the plan is based on the current financial programme adopted in 2018 and financial policy since the beginning of the terms of the term. We're here for the first time from the promotion of the law on government government government funds. This arrangement means that the basic policy limit of the government, such as the tax sector and the tax payment gate, is already in place. Nevertheless, a number of changes and adaptations have been made within the total framework of policy, as our rule of action is expected. The main changes from a previous strategy are due to a slow down in the economy, and thus the increase in income in parallel, the changing of prices pioneers from previous financial programmes, and especially in budget 2019. As a result, the government has had to respond with certain measures, such as reducing the rate of pay and buying the products and services presented in this schedule and the sides of projects, for example. At the same time, the government has also contributed to the development of collective labour agreements with additional measures beyond those presented in the last financial programme. In short, the major changes in this program are first extended to 12 months between 2020 and 2021, while the cost of that operation is 900 million 2020, 2.7 billion in 2021 and 3.8 billion, respectively, in 2020. Second, an increase in the growth of general dwellings by 2.1 billion between 2020 and 2022. Third, 4 billion additional transport growth since 2020. Fourth, like a government covenant, there is a significant increase in the development of innovations. The majority of these accounts are about 1.1 billion in 2020 due to the EU's framework of education, research and technology development, and increased donations due to enterprises'reimbursement and development. In the 2019 budget, they increased by 1 billion and will increase by 250 million. K. Each year starting in 2021. And then, finally, in particular, I refer to the government covenant - an estimated 500 million for the next year, 1.5 billion in 2021, and 2 billion in 20223/4, a total of 8 billion years. Fifth, additional contributions are made to the construction of new nurses, i.e. 500 million. K. 2020, 1.5 billion k. 2021 and 2 billion bucks. in the year 2022 and 2023. sixth, the conversion of tax measures from the current financial programme, which is 1.6 billion due to child reform, changes in taxation from the current financial programme to 400 billion. K. in support of publication support and 400 million through measures to improve the work environment of the National media. V.E.G. President. After traveling faster and increasing by one third since 2010, the Icelandic economy is slowing down. Here, several factors with some uncertainty may have a further effect on decomposition. Under these circumstances, much of the main environmental impacts of the economy here on the land, public finance, money policy, and the labour market are responsible for their respective matters in order to maintain economic stability and prosperity at present. The government contributes by promoting financial programs for the coming years that reflect strong positions and firmness in the administration of public funds. The policy laid down there is a heavy weight in the balance of the economy. Further, the rest will be returned for overall living. Illumination on home and a business falls in a practical way. Its debt and its growth rate continue to decline, as well as a national fund to cope with potential economic losses. At the same time, cost-effective measures are expected to help settle the agreements of a labour market. More important, in view of the slowness of employment over the years, in terms of investments - in private sector investments, there is only a reduction, according to public figures - the financial programme offers a handsome increase in public investments in both the social and material support systems of society. Of course, this effort, mentioned in the construction of transport workers, is one of the greatest plans for making investments far more extensive than expected in the previous financial programme. Over the past few years, a tenet of economic growth has made a great contribution to home development and to improving the financial status of companies and public citizens. The value of pay has increased by one third since 2013, and the income level is more than that of this country. At present, however, there is evidence that this period of growth is slowing down, and we need to adapt to only a slower pace in the economy. For example, it appears that economic growth in the current year will be the smallest one in the last seven years. However, on the other hand, economic forecasts indicate that economic growth will be restored within the next year. The last few years of action enables the overall economy to be much better equipped to cope with worse eyes. Significant improvements in recent years thus support continued growth and prosperity. The financial system has been restored on a healthy foundation and is acting by a clear rule of action. A financial head has been successfully released. The debt of the state's budget for funding the financial system has been fully paid, and other debts due to coverts of the years have also been dropped very much and negotiated on other loans. All of this has greatly lost weight, but improved growth balance has greatly increased the government's ability to move ahead in various areas. And as they know from previous years, industrial products and goods have been dropped, and few countries are now as open to trade as Iceland. All of these are the elements that we live in today. Although this slows down in the economy, we are in a good position to cope with the changed reality. But I remind you, and it's worth keeping in mind that, according to all current economic predictions, growth in the years that are very acceptable and appropriate after this large growth period we have been in. All of this adds up to the fact that the rights of pensions in public and public employment markets have been consistent. Home, business, and government have a new growth period to pay off debt, so it is not only the debt of the state that has dropped but also the companies and the homes. So far now that the pure status of the economy is positive about nearly 10% of GDP for the first time in the Republic's history. So all the factors are that we can adapt to a little less growth in the economy. However, as noted earlier, economic growth is also a premise, although economic growth is at its lowest rate for several years in the year, that economic growth will take place in the next year, and will be higher in the country in the years ahead than in most neighboring countries. A respectable president. I'm going to take some of the fees of this plan. Community infrastructure in a wide sense is an important requirement for economic and social progress. It is stated that there is not a long-term investor that violates the objective of public financial sustainability. During the years following the collapse of the economy, government investments were greatly reduced, and there is still a considerable need to work at the angle of the infrastructure, especially in transport and electronic manpower activities that are important for economic growth in the coming years and decades. Public investment rates are expected to rise considerably over the next two years, but at the same time, as previously said, economic investments are bound together. This plan allows for a total budget of investments between 2020 and 2,2024 students to make 400 billion dollars. This is expected for a significant increase in transport growth, an additional 4 billion each year, in order to speed up the need for new development and maintenance. Much money is still expected to be taken into account for the construction of a new hospital, and this could continue to be the case. The plans of the government on the budget are based on the basis of the last strategy, and this is especially in the area where we see changes. By means of special measures, general provisions, and additional payments, there has been scope to increase donations to several aspects of this program. These include the contributions made for innovation, research, and knowledge. Education contributions are also increasing and have increased substantially to health and health. Other problems have become relatively more important, such as developing cooperation and environment, and they are much more pronounced. I especially call attention to these two groups of subjects, how much change has occurred in a few years in both developing and environmental matters. Despite the unprecedented expansion of spending, the combined consumption as a proportion of GDP has been stable. I also draw attention to it. It tells us that we have been able to afford to do better and more in so many areas. V.E.G. President. In the United States, most outside conditions are still very favorable. The economy has increased confidence. This is seen in the improved credit rating of the state's funds, the government's credit rates have never been more favorable. We've taken out a lot of life savings, but we can't expect that the standard of living will continue at the same rate over the years. The economy is now en route to a time period in which it must be a competitive commercial situation and use caution in public financial matters. We need to think for a long time, for a long time, and emphasize the increased production by the access of all key stakes in the economy. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I suggest that this program be referred to. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u4	The president would like to report, before what? A senator entereth into the chair, that now two long days, with hundreds of exchanges of words, answers, and brief talks with the minister of the business. The president will become quite rigid in the respect of deadlines for gathering when it is due. There will not be much tolerance for a talker.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u5	Mr. President. Thank you for the fine words. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for his review here. As noted in his case, and as in the case of those well - known in economic management of the land, people are concerned about what the future holds. There is uncertainty about air management, as noted, uncertainty regarding the outcome of dress products, etc. This can lead to both hopes, and some of the reasons presented here could fail. We must live by not knowing what the future holds, which is vague in these matters. However, it is very important to have clear lines about how the government intends to respond to the march after this uncertainty becomes more difficult. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on how to react to the income side of the state's funds if they are walking after the change in the schedule is closer to what happens than not the Hausi's predictions. What's the big deal? A minister takes note of this, how action will be taken, and where, most important, will be taken? It will likely be in some kind of cuts, and who will cause it to be carried?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u6	A respectable president. These are normal questions, especially the news we receive today, and they have been a long time before any disturbance could occur in flying to and from our country. I want to start by saying two things. On the one hand: I hope we still agree that when a financial program is published, it should be based on public forecasts, that we support public data, that we support the economic predictions offered by governments from independent outside sources such as the Hausi. It's our job to build on them. If we get out of this, the future governments will choose the priorities they find most suitable and will best speak in the council with regard to the matters that men would like to use. I don't think it would be good to go on that track. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are here for the first time to publish a deviation, which is the answer to a cry from a financial body and partly from the council, to show variation, and to be aware of the impact that certain anomalies might have. In effect, this question is asked: How would it be best to respond if economic forecasts, or economic forecasts, were to fail? So I have an answer to this question: If such an incident requires a review of financial policy, it will be considered first whether to adopt the policy itself. It is assumed in the law that then the Minister could enter the council with a synopsis proposal to do so. What would be considered? Well, there we would likely be talking about - let's say that economic growth down to 0%, according to a new projection from a new reality that we're not still looking at. Then we would likely come to the conclusion that there is no reason to aim for a 0.9% share of the state in 0% interest. [[The president calls.]] We would take down the forecasts and arrange some of the rest that we have today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u7	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. A minister did not directly answer whether this would result in biting e.g. in the public, whether or not to be cut into welfare services, etc. I think it's very important to get it out. I just want to come into it as the highest possible. A minister said about the preferred economic forecast. Certainly she's new. It is then January or February, and I'm sure it's a good thing to support such a new projection. But there are other predictions, and I think it's right to mention them here, e.g. Both from the Bank of Lands and the private company of the Smokefield of Economics. These projections give us a much darker picture than the Haguen prophecy. Therefore, it may be asked, " Is it not reasonable for humans and governments to look at them as they also predict, because they paint a darker picture, and it is important for humans to examine the entire area of these matter? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u8	A respectable president. I think it's very important to make a difference in economic forecasts and some field-of-view analysis that would take into account what would happen if something were to happen? I come up here to show that we have a financial program that assumes that next year there are about 29 billion leftovers. If the conditions we're setting here change substantially, we need to evaluate the income and charge sides. The combined effect of both the income and the charge gate may be impossible to achieve this particular amount of waste by 0.9%, and I traced it into the current procedure. While we're walking on the rest and saying, "There's no need to be 0.9% left over, there's no need to be a review of the other financial expenses. That. this does not require the direct surgery as a course of course. A senator asks for, as long as we achieve a reasonable speaking by the circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u9	Mr. President. Today, we do not have to struggle with weather clouds over our tourism. On top of that, the work market appears to be more tough than the other. For the next five years, there is no play at all to ease the situation in the jugular dispute, rather the opposite. V.E.G. There, a government makes tax proposals that the unions have already rejected and sends out government employees with free contracts of cold greetings. The contracts of BSBA and BHM are breaking free these days. This adds to the big women's arms struggles, including nurses who are coming out of a vote. V.E.G. Governments send the concert through the financial program by assuming that if they negotiate a salary that gives them more than 3.8% raise on one hand, the institutions they work to carry the cost, or become the Ministry that they are expected to find ways to finance the raises. This cannot be understood in a way other than that if the big women's classes receive a dress code above 0.5% plus inflation, their clients will receive less service or they will have to take on extra stress. Each percent of the pay rate costs more than 2 billion bucks. Has been calculated and charted what such a cut would mean, e.g. for health institutions? I'm asking the highest. Budget and economic secretary if the cost is high, maybe 2 billion, 4 billion, even 6 billion dollars. How will this cost affect institutions like this? in the health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u10	A respectable president. I have to state completely apart from the fact that in this financial program, there is nothing to be found that can be supported by a collective contract. On the contrary, it is my presentation here today that there are measures to be found in the program following other measures that have already been taken. I mention increases in unemployment insurance, unemployment benefits. I'm referring to a special growth in character discount. I mention an increase in child improvement, which went into effect for the past few years. Here we are adding the birthworm. We're listening for some sort of foundation-based action. We have work to do on housing, and we are reducing taxes. It's all right. A senator should give special attention to nurses because I have felt that her language and her party had been centered on the fact that we had an example of people who did not need a tax cut. But then they come up and say, "Well, these people are about to come and negotiate their terms. We need to worry that these people will want a higher salary. Whether we lower the tax or raise the pay, it's about adding the income. As a result, we should pay for our collective contracts. I like it. A senator is far superior when he has concluded that certain women's classes or other groups of public employees need to be concerned. We are simply saying in this financial program: We cannot allow the total pay rate of the state, as a percentage of total income, to grow indefinitely into the future. And what difference does that make? If the government pays about 24% of total income to 26% during the final year of the programme period, it will cover 20 billion additional expenditures. However, if we can maintain the pay ratio approximately in the same place, e.g. By ensuing public services, as this government would like to do, digital service, with digital communication of the main exchange pathway, we can communicate in public affairs. [[The president calls.]] Yes, it could possibly lead to our not needing, for example, to have as many people working in the Senate, we could do it electronically. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u11	Mr. President. Those answers are the highest. Ministers were the least spoken of hairy. This also applies to a number of aspects of the budget. It's very hairy. Although one of the values in the government is a transparency, it is clearly not accepted. I asked the highest. A minister would have been drawn up pictures of how to handle matters if the cost of pay was high. And that's what this book says. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it only wrong, then, that if the remunerations become more expensive than 0.5% in excess of the cost, the Ministry would have to deal with that? Is that wrong? So why haven't they drawn up a stage? I especially look to health institutions there, staffed by large groups of women who have been under great stress since collapse, and those cold weatherers being sent to them. [[The president calls.]] I want to pray to the highest. Minister to defend the last minute to better review this part with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u12	A respectable president. It's a little strange to be on a budget of less than 500 pages but to be asked about things that are not exactly part of a financial program. But okay. This question is, was there any specific stage films? The answer is no. Such a pattern has not been developed as a dog. Senator's asking for it. It'll be a possible project for the Committee, or I don't know how it's playing out. The important thing is that, of course, the State is in agreements and will pay according to those contracts. Of course. However, as many years go by, the policy here is that in public purchases and in public pay, there should be time economics, including time - seeking. by improving effectiveness in public services by implementing technical solutions that could potentially lead to increased economy. This means nothing more than the modern development of public service, while some may prefer to stay in the old days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u13	A respectable president. There are two things I would like to discuss. On the one hand, pay development as presented in a financial program, but the basis for financial programmes assumes less than 14% of the total interest in the season of the programme. At the same time, however, less than 15% of inflation is expected, so the crowns by the end of the period have become less prices than the crowns today, and the budget is at the price of 2019. Although there is some increase in the numbers to the topic fields, they are less valuable. What I do not understand, however, is the expected remuneration, this 0.5% in excess of the prices and 1.5% at the end of the programme, to public employees. It's a collection of less than 19%, and if you add it to the topic statistics, it's rather obvious that there's a recession on all causes. The only explanation I can find is an increase to the general reserve. This increase could explain this pay development, but it is very strange to put up expected and calculated pay development into the general reserve. It should be something undefined and unexpected that should enter the general reserve. That is why I would like to ask: Is the map a recession on the financial agenda considering the apparent lack of pay development into the topic areas? On the other hand, what numbers are these in the general reserve, which was rising so much? And we don't know why, it's not part of the financial agenda, except for an increased uncertainty. What uncertainty is being said?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u14	A respectable president. First, regarding the 34, which is a general reserve and special financial resources. It is true that in the latter part of the strategy period, they are moved into a very large amount of money, which includes not having been set aside on the topic fields because we are looking relatively far into the future, but rather until we are sitting at this point not setting exactly into the topic field in the fifth year from now on, rather into the general reserve, saying, "There is a considerable distance to take hold of the uncertainty that may really happen. ' Other than that, in terms of pay and prices, we're in with, except for the topic fields, a special team called Cumulative estimated pay and prices change since 2019. It includes all the changes in the future as foretold. So in each case, the pay layer as it is today has been fixed throughout the entire period and the predicted changes in pay and prices have been placed in other teams outside the topic areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u15	A respectable president. It's a pleasant mix-up. Let us go over to something else that is under the law on public finances. 20th degree. Regarding government policies, it is said that there is a need for consideration to the cost, to influence the benefits of any political venture, and to compare their differing criteria. Now and again, there is no expense assessment of the government's actions in this financial program. The effects it has are based all the way in annual reports. The annual reports will be useless if we do not have the cost of building on and evaluating the impact and benefits of the actions established by the government. Then the annual reports can just say: "We did a great job, and we got all the plans. But if plans are not stated in advance, there can be no future comment on the benefits that the funds we agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u16	A respectable president. I think we have to let ourselves look at these issues with a little more perspective. For example, when asked, " What are the benefits of improving 4 billion transport, especially on road projects? ' The amount of money will be primarily set out in line with the transport program, where deeper answers are given. When we have the transport program, we deal with our priorities. Transport is specifically intended to propose to the Minister on the basis of a set priority, e.g. for national efficiency, the transport projects that are to be introduced into the plan. I'll give you another example, the prolongation of your birth Orallofs. I think we have it very clearly the cost rate here. And what are the benefits? Well, he may be listed in the maternity law and an essay with that bill in its own time, every time we have made some adjustments. So I don't think we're going to find all the truth in the budget. We have to look at it a little more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u17	President. It is always a matter of commendation and a pleasure to see here the variation or risk assessment on the economic grounds of financial programmes. That is fundamental when we see whether the budget and income plans of the state's budget are established. By permission of the president, I would like to read up economic risk factors as they are placed on page 5. 116 on schedule. There is a potential for loss of income or cost of counter-important measures, such as marine eco-exploitation, travel support failure, cost of exporting markets, or economic trauma in major business countries. As a result, the development of gangs, prices, collective contracts, and interest also leads to uncertainty about the survival of state funds. V.E.G. I must be forgiven by the secretary of finance, but I think this is a better description of economic reality than the economic risk factors of this financial agenda. It seems that more and less everything has worked out. This was not the case with furturbance that we expected. It is obvious to anyone who would like to see that the status of the tourism service is far more serious and difficult than expected on the grounds of that national economy. We see a Baltrexit exit without a contract, and the so-called hard Bgret is actually working in front of our eyes with a leading economic uncertainty. More and less economic predictions are being revised in our business countries. Wouldn't have been any closer, chief. Secretary of finance, working this financial strategy out of the variation rather than out of current economic forecasts?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u18	A respectable president. The answer, in effect, is shown in the financial program. In case of a moment. A senator would have read further in the next sentence, with the permission of a president: While present economic conditions do not indicate any significant risk at this time of the programme although there are certainly many challenges associated with certain economic solutions, such as the results of collective agreements and the development of tourism, these factors are further attributed to section 2.2. It is true that when we look into the future, we need to adjust to our hairy failings. But there are other things that fall with us. Let's watch, for example. To this fact: Loftur bet has been evaluated in exports somewhere between 18 and 20 billion, something like that. Now there is evidence that in a few years the fish fire has grown to such an extent that the export value of fish farming is both salmon and pink as well as other fish farms. But we seldom discuss it here at the council, even though there may be some 14How billion exports there each year. We got another hairy thing, but no one said anything about it. It's just a little thing. It's also a challenge to realize that - and I think we should hurry, it was just the last case in the media today - exactly what it would be like if the airline operation ended or a major disorder occurred with another Icelandic airline. They need to lie down, see what others will do to cope. What will happen to the free time at the airport, etc.? What has already happened? And that's what you could keep counting. But I'm not going to minimize these risk factors, because we don't do that in this financial program. I just want to make sure that we're based on legitimate fortune predictors that we didn't make, and we ourselves wake up, on our own initiative, on our weakness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u19	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Indeed, it is commendable that there is a lack of variation here. And that's exactly what there is to it. 58 of the budget reports. In fact, the economic reality I seem to be drawing up here is appreciated for money. This is where the day goes by, for example. after the absence of any combustibles that have already been experienced, the number of passengers around the Cheflavor airport may be much higher than they originally expected - and all hopes continue to calm down the life - support that the Society now slanders - the product of government funds may be up to 60 billion inferior by the end of this financial policy as anticipated. In other words, this deviational picture shows that this is the economic reality that confronts us, that the economic foundations of this budget are already smiling. It's nice to remember the value of the law on public finances; carefulness, self-sustaining and firmness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no caution in this financial program. [[The president calls.]] She's dropped by the light.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u20	A respectable president. I must strongly object that there is no caution in this program. I think we need to ask ourselves, " What are men saying? ' What is being brought into this discussion? Hv. A senator says that the appearance in the economy is not as bright as the plan is and that we need to adapt to it. So let us ask ourselves, " Wait, how should we adapt to it? ' I'll say for mine if you like. A senator is saying that we should take the target of reevaluation - fine. I can agree with that. If there were no economic growth, we should not be heading for 0.9% of the money left over. But the carefulness of the plan is reflected in the fact that we have set aside 30 billion in the economy, which, in turn, is like a buffer, to ease the consequences if the economic forecasts are not correct. It's 30 billion in the next year. If they want to put the government's funds in irons next year, because there's no economy here, we can do it, but we can keep all the spending plans without borrowing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u21	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. I'm just going to say that it's not out of control and that in this case, I want it to be out of the question. At the same time, I turn to the less positive one. It is acknowledged that in many ways there is a prerequisite for promoting this financial program here and now, based on the instability and uncertainty that we face in the community today. V.E.G. In its history, a financial minister noted that since 2010, we have seen unprecedented growth in the economy, the economy growing about a third of that period, which is a natural success. Then you might ask yourself: " Is it because of the economy? Or is it Eyjafjölkull and Justin Bieber? That's a good question. As it is today, there is one thing that I am deeply concerned with and that has been wrapped in me ever since I first heard of it that there should be a 7 billion bank tax down here. In today's uncertainty and even in the presence of certain fears in the community that the cutting knife is about to be adopted, it is evident that over the next five years the bank tax removal, up to 7 billion a year, will become a total of 35 billion people who are not being set up. I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Is it not possible that we could look to this, e.g. With the amazing changes we face and the many uncertainty that now exist in the economy, and simply retracting this decline? Do those who are rich in the land allow a tiny bit more involved in what we are going through now? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u22	A respectable president. Especially with regard to the bank tax, I'd like to remind you that the tax was laid on with the clear and excellent justification that the State would have to recover some of the expense it would have paid to restore the financial system. Now it is so time that the State has done so. We have recovered all the direct costs of the state of the restoration of the financial system. Then the question remains whether this tax, which was originally meant to be temporary and was raised very significantly, including while the old banks were still uninhabited, there was some justification today in the changing environment. The recent development of a white book on the financial system highlights the extent to which the tax environment in Iceland is, on account of this particular tax, everything much more burdensome to financial activity than in control countries. And more importantly, this is one reason why Iceland's interest gaps are more than elsewhere, as is often the case. First, there are taxes on the bank, second, very high personal requirements and risks due to loans that have impact and third, due to deposit insurance. These are all factors that we have to deal with. It is my conviction that it is right and sensible, not for the rich men as well as for the rest of them. A senator is talking about, but for the people of the country, homes, and companies who need financial services, to reduce these curses because they are all likely to be one of the lesions in the system today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u23	Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. I'm just saying, "Oh, come on. Temporaryly, it was also temporary when the oil charge was placed on sailors of the day. It's still there. I don't know how many decades it's been killing them. Has there been a decrease in interest of interest? Is there any assumption that while we're down here about 7 billion this bank tax is down in the country? I can't see it. I can't keep track of it. I'm simply pointing out when I talk about the rich men that the landscape has been changed. Here we are looking at amazing profits from our banks, which are well - off. And I just ask, based on the changed circumstances and different environments and landscapes we live in today, if there's no reason to review this precisely and to give these fine institutions an opportunity to contribute more fully to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u24	A respectable president. In fact, I'd like to say that if we secure the financial situation in this country a competitive business environment, it will increase the value of the banks most commonly owned by the Icelandic government today. This will result in their contribution to the community or to the State and thus indirectly to the community of all sorts of people becoming more developed in the right way. But we can disagree on this. It may also be asked about this tax, if they believe it is good for the financial system to pay as the highest tax, why not just contribute a little more taxes and where the upper limit is in it. [[Good question.]] I don't agree with this. I think we need to provide a competitive business environment for a financial company. In most matters, it takes comparing with other countries, and I find this very lack of logic in the white book.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u25	Mr. President. In this discussion, I would like to first mention national interests, the Organization's national interest perspective since February, which is one of the principal employers of the revenue program presented in this proposal for the resolution of a financial program for the years 2020-024. Since uncertainty exists, a reassessment is necessary. A recession in our largest sector, the tourism service, is predictable due to high uncertainty in air traffic, as well as unsolved agreements and mismanagement of hairy behavior. The problem with flying has been known for some time. I believe the government has slept on the guards and overlooked the problem without taking action, as it should be done under law. The middle class called attention to the case with a special discussion last year on the situation of the Icelandic international airlines and the surveillance role of a United Nations Agency. The budget is to tell us how the state's gonna be for the next five years. There are certain factors that have, unfortunately, changed very rapidly, as we do know. Hence, a financial committee must call for expert opinion and a change in national interest. Clearly, the government's income becomes smaller than that of today. This is likely to mean dealing with the spending side, so it needs to be answered if we're going to see a standard cut. In this revised financial program, the expansion of the Kingdom work will be expected to be in line with the aims of financial policy covering the year 2022. Official financial laws assume that the financial agenda is based on the current financial policy at any one time and is therefore one of the key presidents of the financial programme and the way of government's policy in public finance. Thus, a financial agenda has further implementation for financial policy goals. In view of the vast uncertainty in which a number of factors are involved, questions must be asked to make that claim. It calls for a much more detailed report on the finance minister, especially in the light of a serious air traffic situation here and how difficult it has been to achieve contracts in a general labour market. The plan says that the main focus for the financial management of the government of the state will still be to maintain and rely on the current financial and financial stability of the public. In this case it is also important to be cautious in decision-making if it is necessary that the economy will be less pronounced than expected on the basis of the programme. This should be addressed as a responsible perspective, but at the same time this view emphasizes the need to keep issues that will not result in a major impact on the implementation of the programme. When the flame of red light is on fire, effective measures must be made to make sure that there are no variations of funds such as 34. Official funds are designed to secure. Mr. President. It is the workforce's job to find out that the labour market is a bargaining position. This does not change the fact that governments can play a significant role in paying for measures they can take. Such measures could be in the area of taxes, welfare and housing, and especially in terms of the benefits offered in financial markets. The interest on the unsurpassed mortgage is more than 6%. For example, in Sweden these same interest rates are about 1.5%. It would be a lot better if the interest here were the same as in neighboring lands. It is surprising that the government does not use the unique opportunity it now has to set up the financial market when the government fund is the owner of two large business banks. On page 18. 24 of the programme will consider the application of national eco-weapon as an important part of the economy. In order to follow these improvements, it has been proposed that the cohesion of the Federal Bank and the SEC be introduced. A question mark can be given that one institution is given such an extensive task. The criticism of government and government in town, especially from the bank's own bank council, has not been ignored by anyone. On page 18. 25 talks about tax returns from tourism. It says that the income of the state's funds is less than that because the largest export sector, tourism, is not taxed in the general level of worth tax, but is lower. Then, according to the report, tax allowances for this article are 27 billion dollars. ... underlaws. I find that rather cold from the government to the sector that has produced economic growth in the past few years, representing more than 42% of the country's export value. A profession that has made the debt of state funds severely reduced and that we now live under a powerful currency system, a nation that had no currency 10 years ago. This is clearly a message from the government that it aims to raise the budget for the tourism service when there is a strong uncertainty about the article. The rapid decline in growth of export is a concern and is one of the main reasons for slowing the rate of growth. Export development is currently dependent on a high degree of uncertainty, and the uncertain factors are to a greater extent down than that, as agreed in the schedule. The economist assumes that exports are growing by 1.6% this year, which would be the least growth between 2010 and 2010. Still, that forecast is based on reasons that can easily change for the worse, as mentioned earlier. Already, there has been an absolute failure that was unsupervised at the time of the forecast. There is a shock to the region, such as the Western Islands and the Far East, as well as some 18 billion of its exports. In this regard, we will consider in terms of inflation and the predictions of the Haustium. The economy well predicts in the year 2 or 3.8% in 2019 and 3.3% in 2020. This projection is based on the terms of a 6.4% increase in pay number in 2019 and 4.7% 2020. In view of the work market and union demands, it is rather unlikely that this will be the case. Increase in pay will be higher, which will inevitably lead to higher inflation. On page 18. 43 discusses the workforce. In this regard, I would like to introduce only the fact that the Central Party has given high priority to the elderly's employment initiative. There's good reason to bring down a current hundred thousand dollars. The elderly's contribution to the income of the elderly. On page 18. 74 is an overview of government debt. This is a good presentation for which thanks is needed. The decrease in debt ratio has gone faster than financial policy expected, and it's certainly a good result. In connection with the last financial program, members of the budget called much attention to the development of plans or scenarios as to how things might look if the assumptions were to change. This has been improved and should be thanked for it. It is necessary to continue in the same course. In box 3 on page 19. 58 contains an abnormal picture. On page 18. Similarly, 59 is a tablet showing a sharp dip in economic growth. This image accounts for a failure of hairy cells and a reduction in the number of tourists by 5% instead of 23%. I believe the predictions are close and clear that this season will not catch the stick. And it's all headed for a greater reduction in tourists. It weakens my estimate that it allows very little changes in unemployment and is to remind that 68% of the top 400 companies believe that the situation in the labour market will get worse in the next six months. By the end of the year, 30% of companies felt that they would reduce staff within the months to come. In terms of the income side, it is estimated that the first income of the state funds, i.e. Without interest, income increases 46 billion from the 2019 program to 932 billion in 2020. Given the vast uncertainty ahead of us in economic affairs, I doubt that this will work. On page 18. 76 and further on, the government's tax policy. It shows that carbon costs will be raised in the third year in a row. The media has criticized the policylessness of the government in this taxation. That tax is particularly severe in the country today. The government plans to further change the taxation of vehicles and fuel from year to year, adding it to the planned target. The central category has stressed that tax and charge of car owners will be reduced and the category will not support road charges unless the car's taxes and fuel are lowered. Then, as we have seen, the highest priority in the government remains to reduce the bank tax. This is not the only reduction, for at the end of the year the bank's pay dropped to the FEC, and at the beginning of this month, the secretary of finance recommended a bill on the reduction of bank fees to the deposit fund. On page 18. 83 says that tax reductions on banks are intended to provide banks with sufficient access to reduce loan growth, which would be shown in the improved access of households as well as improving the business environment. It is a great wishful mind on the part of the minister of finance to my judgment. There is evidence to the contrary that banks are going to grow. Mr. President. I see that time is running out and would have liked to come on many more things, but hopefully we'll have a chance to do that later on with this discussion. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to say that this revised government financial program is stained with more optimism than mere matter exists. [[The president calls.]] Serious weaknesses are on important grounds of plans. [[The president calls.]] As a result, I have serious doubts that it is possible to achieve the result of government policy and to appear to us in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u26	A respectable president. Perhaps I would like to mention first two things from the speech of two. Senator. First of all, the guidelines that made it necessary to be careful to add extra money to the country's tourism industry. I agree well with that, and I believe that there is a rather subtle tone in the plan of these plans, although we are eager to complete the reports of their project and answer them for the next year, or preferably as the longest future, in what way we would prefer to be paid in the construction of our infrastructure. I agree with that. A senator has to plan such measures very carefully. But then I want to turn my words back into the economy. So the question is, how? A senator sees this. If we slow down more than is predicted - we are predicting that we are at the least growing in the year during the planned period and that growth will be the least for many years. So the question is, how is it? A senator believes the government should have responded. There we are in the setting of law on public financial matters. We've never tried to activate 10. The law says that financial policy can be revised simply for reimbursement and reimbursement. I want to know what's wrong. A senator would agree that it would be an option to say: Let us not aim for so much good, but we need to adapt by reducing our target of recovery, as conditions in the economy are like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u27	Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the counter-sponsore. True, public financial laws are new, and we have been following in the best way of doing things. But it can happen if these conditions are going on, and we see a significant decrease in the economy, which I really hope will not be, and I really hope a good landing gets caught e.g. In a plane transport, there may be times when financial policies need to be reviewed. But what may be the most important thing, and the highest. Minister asked what the Central Party had done in these projects, planning to be natural, and the highest. A minister has said that they are there, about how to react if the premises that are now laid on will lead to failure. Then it's good to have the deviations that I'm happy to be on this plan for the first time. It is of natural importance and shows that people are focused on what could happen and that they are likely to have some plan on how to deal with it. The short answer may simply be to approach these issues in the way that man has plan A and Plan B on how to handle the situation. But like the highest. Minister said that in every decision-making process, people are careful and plan things in terms of the government's spending gate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u28	A respectable president. This is generally an extremely important discussion. It is important because we are actually discussing this for the first time after a relatively new release law. Let's just put it into the context we have. We now have the context that when the government was formed in 2017, we were making a long way toward the future. We thought in practical terms, saying: "Well, it seems to us that in 2020, after more than two calendar wounds, there will be some kind of economic growth. And according to what we wish to be in more than two years, i.e. economic status, it seems appropriate for us to aim for the government to deliver 0.9% rest. This is the context of the parts. That's how we agreed on financial policy. That's why I say if men come up here and say we're way too optimistic, well, we're still on course. And it's going well with the predictions we have in our hands. But we certainly need to talk if major economic events occur, if the underlying foundation for the plan is changing, which has not yet happened, it would be my view of the situation that we should lower our target of recovery. I don't think there's any reason to aim for 30 billion share if economic growth is added or there's no economic growth even in the country. I'm pointing this out because it's important because there's nearly 30 billion people in space to deal with. That's exactly what we're thinking. That is why it has been so important to give up good financial resources when things are going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I agree with him that, of course, it is important that there is good leftovers and that we have room to deal with unexpected circumstances and economic uncertainty. It also makes a big difference that has been able to reduce the debt of state funds considerably in a short period of time that, as I say, is important when circumstances arise. But there's a question about these predictions that I've talked about. Now it's very fast that we're facing a lot of uncertainty. That's why I think it's very important for later. Call a financial committee to the specialists, and we get additional data and revised predictions so that the situation can be addressed just as it is. It will probably be clear even in the days ahead, whether or not to eliminate the uncertainty of the aircraft. Nevertheless, there is still the uncertainty of the conclusion that has not been reached in a better discussion. Granted, the number of strikes and the number of tourists may change the outcome. We're about to enter a booking period in the tourism service, so there's certainly a lot of uncertainty that needs to be taken into account. But I'll agree with it with the highest. Minister, we're better prepared to deal with this. Of course, it should be welcomed. But it is also important to make right decisions and not to be determined in a time of crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for an excellent speech. I can't believe how it went. In fact, a senator was able to trace just as much of his plan, a vast plan, and time for it. That is especially three things that may have been major in speech. Senator. It turned to travel services, the uncertainty that is certainly explained in a report with the plan and the nature of the case has been on the front of the discussion, and then on the other hand. A senator called a standard cuts. For the first time, travel. At the beginning of the terms of the election, plans to raise costs for tourism were missed. I agree with what. A senator, like the highest. The financial and economic minister made that all such plans have to be prepared and developed very well. In today's situation and uncertainty, this need to be carefully considered. With the uncertainty of the mind, you're shaving. It's a fine body of senator, the uncertainty of the air traffic, the financial failures, the international economics, etc. But isn't that why we've made this up in the government laws and the basis for setting it up in a plan? Just that we have a clearer picture to cope with uncertainty? Because we live in a swinging economy, and there are actually only two possibilities, one on the other, certainty and the other. We'll always live with back-up and failure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budgetary committee, for the counter and reflections. Admittedly, it is the right thing to do. A senator's legislation on public financial matters, which are relatively new and in this way, will help us to see how this situation works in a time of uncertainty. I think the law provides excellent guidance on the subject that the possession of the funds is important, etc. and that we don't get ahead of ourselves, because we have to be able to make the best of the years, so to speak. There, the law certainly provides good space, guidance, as far as it goes. However, the law must not be made to the point that it cannot be handled quickly and effectively when conditions are worse, such as this. in the uncertainty we now have. Now, it can only be clear in a few days that if the airline's flying business is not handled, WOW, whether we're seeing an increase in unemployment, whether we're even seeing a change in progress, decrease in economic growth, etc. The short answer may be that, yes, it is good to have the law as a guide, but we must also be able to act quickly and effectively in situations that may arise suddenly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. We agree that such laws on public financial matters have placed the financial resources in which the laws on finance have been established, i.e. This strategy, of course, is designed to help us deal with uncertainty and circumstances that are completely equal. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. A senator sits, will surely call for all analyses and scenarios beyond what we already have. I agree with what. A member of the body said that there is a great improvement in the financial program that shows the scenarios. In the box two and three, a candidate quoted in his talk. For example, the economic rhythm of the corrected recovery as good as good. The money board has called in quite a number of calls, as well as an anomaly, also found in the box three. We've already got Haust at our meeting to review the economic forecasts that lay the basis for this strategy. But there is a possibility that the uncertainty we are discussing will now be determined on the future schedule. I'll take it for wording. A senator already. A senator says that it is necessary to respond by means of a routine surgery. What is a standard cut? And how would it go. A senator will react if the situation changes? Let us say that there will be no economic growth from 1.7%, in current economic forecasts, where would the traditional cutdown be?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Standard cuts? This was presented perhaps as a question, to the greater part; about how he and the highest. The minister of finance could imagine an incision, if it ever occurred to him. Likely, then, there is a traditional cut-off on welfare matters, and he will likely affect the public in the country. I hope you don't, and like the highest. The minister mentioned earlier, we have the rest of the budget that could soften the blow. I think it's important that it's the plan, so don't come up with this so-called standard welfare cuts and in a number of things involved in public services, increases in registrations, etc. This is what I threw in my speech, because there is, of course, uncertainty about how we can deal with it if there is a significant decrease in government income. As a result, it comes into our mind, as we now say and have considered, that government law points a little in the way of the material and set the goals we've been working on, that there is the rest of financial and planning, which is of utmost importance, especially in the circumstances ahead, and the scope of the state's budget, shall be subject to, it is good to respond to this. Of course, all uncertainty is a bad one. That's why we've come up with these variations that I'd like to see that had been compared a little more with other projections, which have come up with a darker picture of the situation than Iceland's National Economics Organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u34	Mr. President. In fact, it is surprising to discuss a financial program to the next five years that was seen for five hours before the premise. The premise did not expect hairy failure, nor did it result from the great problem of WOW air, nor does anyone know what the collective treaties will be. It is now clear that the number of passengers listed in the management plan is increased by adverse events on the state budget by 2.4%, but it is now quite clear that there is a higher reduction. The plan, however, highlights the highest. Government and policy and from that standpoint it is possible to take the conversation, although it is clear that the financial agenda will not be accepted. A budget is proposed to support the government's financial policy for the terms adopted at the World Assembly about a year ago. Thus, governments are bound to each shoe by returning the rest of the government budget approved by the government groups, or 0.9% of land production in the following year and 0.8% of the remaining years. In this way, the rest of the government budget must be 29 billion. Next year, no matter what the chops and the humdrums. Unless it was so bad that there would be an economic breakdown or national threat that could not be dealt with in a way that could not be different from changing policy. It's said in paragraph 10. it's a government law. Thus, governments are limited by ensuring that the removal of the government will be in harmony with approved financial policies. Many had warnings when the government's financial policy was being discussed. The most serious comments came from a financial council that was concerned that the government could tie up in a straitjacket of its own direction. Such good goals do not come easily when there is plenty to be done and even beyond what was expected. It is downturned, as is the present time when the government's financial policy begins to bite. The government's response will be tested, whether those in need of the State's service are in the front, or whether the dream of independent people to the less government activity and to the increase of personal welfare services comes up through the nation's trials. The state's stocks over the last years have been systematically weakened, such as the detriment of resource taxes, the reduction in hunting costs, and the reduction in consumer taxes. The government has not gained additional income for tourism, which in a short time has become the largest industry in Iceland and the one who also has the highest tax sector, or about 27 billion dollars. In 2019, as shown in the financial program. Obviously, when income institutions that are to be done under the financial budget are weakened, what happens when the economy slows down. The income of the state funds will then fail to cover the expenses needed and to keep the wealth of the state within financial policy. Therefore, additional resources or privileges need to be taken care of. To keep the financial budget within the financial policy, the following responsoring measures in the budget are expected: The first is the general requirement of maintenance, which is 2% between 2020 and 22022, and 1% in the year 2023,2024. Thus, the claim is up to 5 billion dollars. Right next year. Secondly, lower pay. Remunerations to institutions in 2020/2022 are only met by 0.5% in excess of prices. This means that if there is an increase in pay development of more than 3.8% during 2020, the relevant department will have to meet the excess cost by surgery. This maintenance process increases the quality of the community, such as public health institutions, where pay is largely advised. With available agreements in both doctors and nurses and the major women's classes within the medical system, this can have a significant impact on the management of health institutions. This maintenance goal seems innocent, but in the case of a raise in pay, e.g. 4.8% in 2020, the Ministry has to cut down 2 billion dollars. 5.8% means 4 billion in an operation that largely affects the welfare services. And to whom can this appeal be acceptable? Maybe the highest. A health minister? I would have had a hard time believing that. Yet, here is this key to the budget and, unfortunately, all the political parties have been blessed. Third, the phrase "do not become worthy of all goods or services. " The purchase of certain goods and services is not considered to be a merit for the development of pay and prices between 2020 and 22022, which, in fact, means a reduction to some non-distinguishable factors. The government seems to have taken a steady bite in February's tax changes with less than 7,000 dollars. a tax reduction to anyone with 330,000 K. or more in salary. All get the same number, including the millions of people a month. The unions have rejected this change as an action to help with collective agreements. Who's asked for such talk about the wealthy? Not that itself, and not the others who call for greater taxation and the fact that they are made to enjoy the action of the State that needs them. The tax base should also be revised in order to bring taxation closer to paying taxes on actual growth. Although it is known that this idea is very difficult to develop, it will be useful to capital owners who seem to be under the government's special protection wing. The bank tax should be reduced from 0.36% to 0.15% in four stages between 2020 and 202023. Some questions are raised about the fact that this means less growth, but there is no guarantee that they will pay taxes to do so. In this country, there have been high interest rates, both before and after bank taxes, and I feel that while other income sources are not thought of, the bank tax should be kept for a while. White authors recommended laying down the tax in order to sell the banks. Then new owners should be expected to gain more money. Therefore, we do well to ask, Is there really reason why this arrangement is instituted in the budget? Then comes the story. The plans are to consider ways to obtain money from tourists in consultation with the economy. They have been planning for many of the past few years without a natural payment for tourism. Does anyone think that this situation in today's tourism, where governments have not had enough to do so on a better year's trip, will it be brought about? The insurance bill is to be dropped according to a good plan, and taxing vehicles and fuel is to be paid for by eco-friendly cars. The cumulative impact of these tax reforms on the income of the state's budget except for a decrease of more than 15 billion. per year based on the schedule when all of these are implemented. In the event that the loss of income taxes is expected to reach 14 billion and the decrease in bank tax by 7 billion is clear that this schedule will not work out. Because if it was to be, the payment for tourists would have to be very serious. She won't be one. Everybody knows that. And a lot of spells on a vehicle. Neither is in sight. There is no further plans to reform the child - welfare system, and the goal of the government remains that the child - welfare system is primarily poor. This year, child - welfare expenses are similar to the values they were in 2013, at which time 13 thousand more families received child support than this year. But the birthworm is to be extended, and it is good. In 2013 it was by independents and candidates who undertook plans for the kingdom of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir about the age of 12 months. This is to be extended, and we, of course, rejoice with members of the United States, even though the children born in the past six years would have been allowed to enjoy these if they had been given the power to do so. There is no plan to raise the maximum payment of a birth policy fund, which, on the other hand, is shocking. The elderly are to be left behind, one more trip. Although we're talking about a further 4 billion because of changes in the social security system, it's hardly in the nose of cats, Mr President, I'm going to let you say. The overall budget for housing support is increased by 3.8 billion, however. So there is no obvious plan to rebuild the growth reform system or support the early buyers. Now it's time to leave me. I'm not halfway through my speech. Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] There are a number of factors involved in this financial program, and especially that the baseline values under which to build are ignored, e.g. transparency. [[The president calls.]] The budget is very transparent, and that's very painful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u35	A respectable president. At first, only on the handle. The same general budget is held in this budget that was in the last schedule of about 5 billion bucks, unless we lent this same demand a little farther into the strategy period for one year, after which the general budget is 2 billion a year. We're going to make more demands on the public business of services and trades and on the development of the pay team. We realize that in the pay force, human activities are expensive, especially in the health sector. We can assume in the future that there will be an increase. There is a considerable growth in the number of older citizens in Iceland over the past ten years, and this will go on to some extent. There are fewer and fewer workers against those in Iceland's pensions over the years, and this requires that we achieve economic management elsewhere so that we do not overdo this. I'm going to say about the transparency, I don't think it's necessary for people to live on any other basis than current economic predictions. I don't talk about when men have published wild predictions. If a person wants to criticize the financial program for any current economic forecasting to fail, that in itself is just a criticism of the economic forecasts. It's not criticism of the government. It's just an early part of some truth that has to be bottomed and finished. It may well be that we need to adapt to something worse in the economy, but we do not allow it to be a concern for the economy. Instead, let us ask ourselves, " How will I deal with it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. When I talk about this financial program being transparent and it's hard to figure out what it really is to the highest level. The government is going to do it. I want to give you an example. On page 14, which discusses investments, it is said that extra investments can be made, can be found, and so is it, by permission of the president: In the coming years, spending time on investments can be increased by making use of the products of the State. For this reason, e.g. It is considered to use the market value of the financial stocks, to create revenues for the structure and development of regions of the State and to reduce the share of the government's holdings in public companies or to alter their capital systems to enable them to increase their income. Alternatively, user fees can be adopted for the use of new infrastructures and resources to cooperate on projects with private agents and professional investors. I'd like to ask, does the President realize what the government really is going to do? She's selling her own share in banks? She's going to sell e.g. What do you mean, a share in land activation or any other member of the State? Is she going to sell it to the airport? Is she going to put on road taxes? I am no closer to this paragraph what to do with investments. I'm counting on, because I'm at the highest. A traveling minister sits in the hall, that we can believe what the chapter says on transportation, but there is no such thing as this. Commenting on roadtolls, though further in the program, it is considered that they may be considered. What's the government going to do, chief? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u37	A respectable president. Now I'm starting to say something. But I'm sure this part of the plan will be discussed. Then I'd like to start by saying what is a budget plan in this program, it's been financed. It is financed in the way that we are shown in the development of individual causes of acidification. In this quoted chapter as a piece of water. A member of this convention is calling attention to the fact that, apart from the funding that is secure in the financial budget, there can be further evaluation of the strategy. It may be considered, yes, to ensure free funds, e.g. has a bank sale. This would enable us to engage in investments without borrowing. There is no plan to sell a share in Legislation. I'm of the opinion, but it's not a mistake in the government, that cooperation with private partners on individual major projects is to be considered. [[The president calls.]] Evolution is another idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u38	Mr. President. Now I've decided to pretend to the highest. Ministers have asked me if it would be possible on my part, or if I would agree to change the financial policy to take on the remainder of the policy. Then I'd like to point the 10th floor. a law on public financial matters that says when to change policy. It is emphasized that for policy purposes there is a high level of agreement in the council because it should last the entire ideal period, for it must only be changed if there is a serious economic crisis or national problem. It seems to me, though only to me that there is no economic conflict or some major national threat that can be dealt only with as far as changing policy. Here, other methods could still be used, such as staging and increasing income levels. I think, Mr. President, the law won't allow us to change our policy in this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I have to say, however, it surprised me greatly to hear the United States speak down the nurse's expectations to pay, for it is of course impossible to put another understanding into the words that were said here when it was specifically said that there will be no agreements if they are beyond what is expected. Of course, it is always possible for us to assume, whether in the case of pay or in the case of others, as it were. A senator knows as former secretary of finance, that, as it has been said repeatedly, we are going through the predictions below. I'm thinking about the Laboratory, which is a month old. We've been working on contracts, i.e. Until now, if they have been done, although they have been beyond the authority given them at any given time. I find this a little interesting, therefore, to listen to the fact that there may be nurses, yes, and, in fact, a lot of people are expecting death to become a reality. I can't agree with that. As seen at the highest. The secretary of finance before this is no longer necessary, e.g. the social security, unemployment insurance and health insurance benefits next year. And later in the program, there are no health institutions and aging agencies to form, schools, courts, reform systems, and health insurance, so it can't be said that there is a general of 2% cuts, as noted in the case. Senator. It is also worth remembering that if we need to respond, if the situation becomes so that we need to react because of some economic shock, we need to consider the use of the term. I mean, we're primarily cutting out rate gains, but not cutting down, for the increase of expenses, like a beard. A senator knows, grows considerably in connection with national production. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u40	Mr. President. Now I think we're gonna do it. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir has greatly misunderstood my speech. What I took into account earlier was that in the budget, it clearly states that if the raises of the state servants are more than half a percent plus prices, the Ministry needs to find ways to carry that cost. I never mentioned it to them that they should not be paid. That's just bullshit, let me say, Mr. President, at what? Senator. What I'm trying to criticize is that there's been a staging demand that we don't know what's going to be, but we do know that each percentage rate is 2 billion. If there's any increase in pay in the big women's classes in the state, e.g. 5.8% of the Ministry needs to find where to take the 4 billion cost. Of course we're going to pay our pay. But what would that mean? What will this mean for health care institutions, for the needs of health care centers, and for the promises to follow? What will this mean for the pressures of the many health institutions around the country? And it is strange, Mr. President, that people ask these questions, and they call for some kind of plan and some kind of reply on how to react? It's a secret device that's put in there that sounds so innocent, can cause much load, and it's a threat to those who need State service. [[The president calls.]] It's annoying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u41	Mr. President. It's no secret piece. It has often been a restraint in every budget we've been dealing with at the council, depending on what's going on, as it were. A senator knows. With more than 930 billion living requirements, we may not be able to cope with this. I agree with what. A senator in that we can call for plans and answers, and that is what we will expect when we discuss the matter in a moment. It's a legal committee. But let us not forget that part of it, for example. It is possible to cope with the exact amount of pay required in excess of what is expected in the schedule. I stand to see that I find that there are certain classes here, and I say it out in the election that they can expect not to get the contracts they want if the increase is beyond this, because it's not going to work. [[The president calls.]] That's the way I see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u42	Mr. President. I think I have to pray. A senator listening carefully to what I'm saying. I haven't said that contracts are not to be negotiated with government employees. I have said, however, that if a good deal is made, as they may expect, the institutions will need, and the Ministry, which they work to carry the external cost of more than 3.8%. And I hear it in a matter of what. A senator that she knows nothing more than me or more than anyone in this room how high that bill will be and how to take him out of the service and who needs to bear the cost. Is it not likely to be mixed with cuts and pressures on government employees? This is no way to respond to the administrations. They present such a built - in requirement and must note the conclusions of collective agreements, but they have no idea what this will mean for those in need of the State's services. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for an excellent speech. Hv. The senator began his talk with the subject of smiling grounds. It is only natural for us to discuss the uncertainty of the economy, and this is done in a report with the plan. I don't want to be so strong a word, like a cot. A senator did, saying that the basis for the plan is smiling. On the contrary, the law code on public finances is designed to help us build plans for a clearer picture, when we are dealing with an uncertain situation in the economy, which will always be. It's going to fall apart, it's going to fall apart, and it's a powerful environment that changes every day. Not all of us have advice. Business life makes decisions from day to day. The international economic environment makes its decisions. Because we have a powerful economy, we have a government law on public finances in this strategy, in this setting. That's fine. That is why we have a clearer picture of what we are dealing with. It is important that you do so. This can be discussed at a time. It's a legal committee, and what. A senator assists us there. The chamber board, because she has a seat there. I'm sure we'll call for additional information, extra models and analyses that can be useful and potentially leading to a change if necessary. I'm ready for that job with a what? Senator. Last year, I'm just talking about those smiling grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u44	Mr. President. I am very pleased with many articles of new laws that may no longer be new to me regarding public financial matters. The only article in the United States we were against when the law was taken care of was 7. That's right, that's financial policy. I remember that in this speech chair, I said that we would take this rule out of official financial law. However, it is of great importance that the government pursues a course and maintains its policy so that there is some room for it. You're right. A senator pointed out earlier that we are living in an uncertain situation; I do not speak of a land with a high-spector chip. Of course, and this present government should have assumed that something could happen and have the policy so that the rest might be in a certain direction. So if we were to win well, we would give more money than we would have if there were any failures. Whether there was a crash or a problem with air management, etc. As you can see right now. However, that was not done. When we were discussing government policy at the time, it defended itself against the criticism that came from all sides. So we're sitting with the government's approved policy, and we're having a bit of an affair, and the worst is, of course, that those in need of State service will need to bear this down cycle unless we find some other way, e.g. Administratives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We agree on the value of laws on public finances, on planning and on dealing with a moving economic environment. Then, when it comes to government discipline, discipline, and responsibility when decisions are made. Then we can reflect on economics and financial control whether to provide some space beyond the 10th paragraph. if significant economic setbacks are to occur, be able to change the current policy. It's gonna take a lot more discussion than we can solve here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u46	Mr. President. I'm afraid that if we're going to change our policy now, we're going to have to change the law on public finance. Although we are truly going down, this national problem or an amazing economic crisis can hardly be described as an alternative to changing policy. Of course, I want us to change the law and not have to live in such an unwise course, but then we'll have to change the government. Finally, Mr. President, I am very pleased with many of the work the Ministry has done in this financial program that we are discussing and will discuss more today and tomorrow. Because it is important for a specific work that the plan is good and that we, the lawgiver, discuss the policies in each area and try to determine whether there is enough money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u47	Mr. President. A year ago, we discussed the state financial program for the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and, as the law says, it is to be revised annually. This is the first time we've reached this level of government funds law, i.e. that the same government will set up a plan and then reexamine it. The budget submitted by last year was a plan. It was based on the fact that the current government was going to use the economic growth of the past few years to improve the interest of people to invest in social infrastructure and to protect social stability. The review of the plan is to adapt it to the latest economic forecasts. Its new economy is one month old, and its main news was that economic growth in 2019 would be considerably less than the financial strategy a year ago. There has been so much uncertainty at the time of the past, no more hairy and uncertainty about flying, as well as due to collective agreements. Let us not forget, though, that the economy is strong, even though short - term fluctuations will come. The natural bulbs that come from tourists are not leaving. Even if the fur has not been found, others grow better. Investment in the fishing road has been extensive and will lead to greater wealth production. Briefly review the reasons for this update. In Iceland, economic vices are in themselves envy in a global comparison. America's homes, businesses, and government have paid off a fortune of debt over the past few years. This is reflected in the Kingdom Fund, which has never been better than in the last edition, about 1.6%. By then the interest in the land has dropped in the last few years and, for example, in recent years. For example, the best benefit of variable rates of interest on apartment loans was 2.15% in January. Indeed, there is evidence that the wealth of the Kingdom is to be strong, in order to have room to deal with the tragedy. We can, of course, discern the right debt ratio to go, whether it should be 20, 25 or 30%. Today, the state funds per law on government finances owe 26% of the gross domestic product, so to speak, under the law's debt. For the first time in decades, we have a positive debt to foreign countries. We're a community lenders, not lenders. Business levels are high and have moved thousands from Europe to work in Iceland, thus allowing the economy to grow so fast without leaving the prices. As I spoke in my talk about a financial programme last year, it could not continue to grow in the endless economy by 4◯5% each year, but unfortunately it is heading for faster gatherings than we anticipated. Business investment is contracting and is expected to be slightly below the average since 2019. The job investment is what increases the production capacity in the economy over time and therefore it is not good if it falls too much. Money policy has a lot to say, but there's a lot of space there, with high management interest here in our country compared to our neighboring countries. The legal role of the Federal Bank is to promote continued prices, so the results of collective agreements will likely have something to say about what they do in Black Airs over the next few years. The results of the projections will be an overall investor near the long term average, although the combination is different from the previous years. We left greens have spoken of the economic wisdom of the state to arrive handsomely at the table when the economy is slowed down and the last weeks and months have truly slowed down. Here the government suggests that the government is still improving transport, an additional 4 billion is spent on new projects there. This adds to the innovation and reimbursement of enterprises through research and development, but in innovation, economic security is in the future. For Iceland to continue to thrive, green economic growth needs to be established and found in the field of knowledge rather than in economic growth, based on massive resource use. Also added is the construction of nursing plants, which will be added half a billion in the next year, increasing in steps up to 2 billion in the years that follow. Thus we will be able to increase the number and change the total of 920 nurses and meet the increased need for service as the nation grows older. It is continued on the course set at the beginning of this administrative work, to reduce the payment of health - care practitioners, and at the same time to make it more transparent and more efficient. There is an increase in funds in the use of health care as the first stop as well as in mental - health care. Iceland faces many challenges in the coming years when it comes to climate and has committed itself to implementing the Paris Convention's regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In this struggle, more innovation and new knowledge are needed, such as in energy, transport, and sea transport. That these goals will be achieved, including in cooperation with the Environment and Resource Ministry, a team on energy policy and a team on climate control. As we know, a ambitious climate change strategy has been proposed to 2030, which the nature of the case should be reimbursed in a continuous review. This year, in the scientific and technical analyses of the Scientific and Technical Council of Science and Technology Committees on the social challenges of the nation of research and science, there were three priorities: environmental and sustainableness, health and life and work in the world of change. These priorities will be reflected in government innovation policies and climate control programmes. The budget provides financial contributions for various activities that support climate goals, including Work to improve the use of technologies in terms of climate change and increased climate change studies. A respectable president. The level of education in the nations has much to do with their prosperity and opportunities. Our education system needs to be fully equipped to meet the challenges of the future. This can be done by the equality of all students and as well as the pursuit of a career within the educational system, both as students and as employees. I welcome the plans to better define key numbers and to publish statistics that describe the high school system, which should especially focus on learning access in all parts of the country. With increasing and better statistics and valuable financial resources, efficiency should be increased in the use of funds, as well as increasing quality in education and service. Changes in donations to the university level may include: leads to the expected increase in contribution to ensure that Iceland's average OECD countries achieves a high-level funding level in the country. This is expected to be achieved during the financial programme compared to available data. An increase in the latter part of the period will be expected to follow the priorities of the government. During this period, a donation is expected to fund measures to increase the number of students in primary education where there is a plan for paying to be given to a teacher at a training school, which I believe is very important, which is also a planned change in the LIN which, in fact, makes it possible. suggests that some loans can be turned into grants, which, in my opinion, is a very positive and timely step. The government finances a massive operation to support collective agreements. As I spoke about a year ago, and it was said for elections that we were going to intervening in the tax system, to increase the provision of low income groups, to reduce the tax burden of the lowest salary, to distribute the stocks equal. The government has now produced suggestions on how to do this by setting up a new tax step before the lowest income, which accounts for a 2% decrease in tax burden for that group. At that time, the government has added support to income - bearing children's families, but it has been suggested that the risk of poverty is highest in low - income families, especially single parents. Therefore, it is important to direct the assistance to where the need is most important. This is in a financial program to include long-term system reference levels. There I believe that it may be wise to increase the relative control values for single parents, as a result, to show analysis that there is the greatest danger of poverty. For single parents, the load of care is more important, and the opportunity to increase income is lower, with more work. A respectable president. We stand to what was said in a government covenant, that this government would prolong the birthworm. It is now scheduled for the next and next year, as shown in this financial program. It is a big step toward bridgeing the care gap between nursery school and closing the birth Oralfs, so I hope that most people will enjoy a big step. Since the year 2000, the birthworm has not been extended. More important, large amounts of contributions are being made to the general housing system to meet the righteous demands of the labor movement on an abundance of social housing. What a pleasure it was with the proposals of a member of the Governing Body on the premises, and this action is part of it! It is also very helpful to see that support for the housing market is becoming more important than building housing, since in this the problem has been that not enough apartments were built after the collapse of the bank. As to this, economists have agreed that it is important that the support is targeted to achieve its objective, i.e. to reduce housing costs, especially for low income groups. Mr. President. We will use the space available to continue the development of society as economic growth is drawn faster than predicted, and we will add to our investments. This programme ensures the budget for the application for the European community, which is proclaimed in the government's policy declaration. The progress of the economy is a major factor in the actions of the past few years, and we all have the basis for making good through the challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u48	Mr. President. There's a lot of interesting in the budget, and thank you very much. A nice speech from a senator. What I'm most curious about at first is the financial messages to public employees, where it is really impossible to interpret that salary should not rise more than 0.5% above prices, which are considerably less than obviously required in the labour market now and considerably less than the Habitat Office is expected in its national interest. Government messages appear to be very clear and clear to public employees: if they request more raises than this, they will be told because resources and institutions will be made available to them. I wonder what. A member of the council feels that the state's message is involved in the imminent groggation of public employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u49	A respectable president. I'll just answer the same question as I said before. I believe that if a collective agreement is made beyond what is expected in the program the government will have to respond to it. It's a very obvious thing, it's going to be done, I think it's entirely possible. We haven't worked out any more of this stuff in years before. We have often been faced with contracting with government employees, and we have always made plans at any given time, i.e. Every government. If treaties beyond what is expected of us, we must face challenges. I don't want to say in advance that it will be done only by surgery in all the institutions involved. I think there's something else we can do. Besides, there's a considerable amount of money in a reserve that we could use if there's anything beyond what's under here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u50	Mr. President. The answer is what? A senator's surprise is that this is just not what he says in the government financial program. It simply states: Government agencies will not get pay raise above 0.5% increase in excess of the prices added to budgets. To have to cut back means - because in the case of the majority of the countries, the largest cost of pay is the one - that these government agencies will have to resign their employees against any higher cost. That is what the Scriptures clearly state. It's interesting, too, to hear a point of view. A senator to what has already been presented in the discussion, that economic leaders seem to be smiling and needed to respond, either by changing financial policy, which is actually under strict legal conditions, or by leaving the government's tax reduction plans or by making payoff plans for the government. I don't know if it would. A senator votes? [[The president calls.]] Should we cancel paying taxes? Should we cancel our expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u51	Mr. President. I think it's clear what would be done if I was alone. That's it. That's it. Of course, I'd cancel paying taxes, but that's now that you don't always hire one. On the other hand, it is so, like a cot. A senator pointed out that I believe that at work we must ask for more analysis of what it would mean if there were to be some percent more than what is expected of us on grounds. However, based on economic forecasts, there are some reasons for the plan, whether we are talking about pay or something else. We can't say as much as we simply suggest that we raise 10 percent of our wages, that that's the basis of the plan. Then we're like what? A senator knows, to take a big step. This, of course, is the basis for what the economic forecasts give us until we discover something else. Then we'll have to deal with it, and I think we need to get some information on that in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u52	A respectable president. So I'll just carry on with this a little bit. How different it is to say that the Ministry is expected to carry the cost of pay and to say that they will be responded! It simply stands in a financial program. We're talking about a financial program, where government policy is set up until the next five years. That's exactly what I find very interesting. Secretary of finance earlier, with the general reserve growing 2.5 billion next year and about 20 billion in the last two years of the strategy, which is very interesting. The reason there was greater uncertainty at the end. What I see, however, is a lack of direction. This money is not being put into the area under government policy. Rather, it remains that we do not know what we are going to do with it and therefore just put it into the general reserve, which we know is not the purpose of the general reserve. There are clear rules on how to remove money from the general reserve. I wanted a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't want to say that there's a lack of direction over a head in this piece of paper. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has a wide range of perspectives on how to implement a plan as shown here. Contract agreements, whether those we are dealing with now or the ones that will remain, particularly in the state, will be very different from the plan. I think it must then be part of what the reserve can deal with because it would be far beyond the plans being made, but we can never predict it. Let us not forget that this is a plan that allows for some specific factors. This is not something that has become the word or that needs to be exactly the way this is about. The Senate is now covering this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u54	A respectable president. That's exactly what I was interested in. Is it, then, evidence that this addition to the general reserve is really a response to uncertainty in the chicken business? It would be possible to resort to what is one of the roles of the common reserve. The other with regard to government policy. I say this shows a lack of government policy. It's not something that we need to know about. I only refer them to the law, that it should be an expensive policy, and who should be the gain of choosing one way above another. It's only in the law. That is not something we need to consider. It's just missing. The coin goes straight into the general reserve. He does not perform tasks that are explained, costed, and evaluable. That's why I say, "No direction." The coin is not in the media, it's in the general reserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u55	Mr. President. It's like that, like a bang. A senator knows that the basis for the Haguess project was, in fact, a reduction in the number of tourists, a decrease in growth in private consumption, recession in commercial investors, etc. Much of that was expected for the benefit we have here. It's even a reserve. to deal with the pay, as it were. A senator knows. It is not unusual for a labour contract wound, in my opinion, that it contains more than equal amounts. Of course, he is not for them only, as we know. Therefore, I cannot say that this is not part of the group and that a policy is therefore lacking. I think it's an excellent policy, people try to get ready if something happens, or if people don't start off in the first place, but they can come up in a different way, something beyond what they start off with. I think it's wise to have the reserve bigger than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u56	Mr. President. It's a government policy as we speak. A senator agreed and a member of the board, and he seemed pleased to be biting in the down cycle now, and I think we all see it, and it's undisputed. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister spoke this way earlier today that changing the economic policy might be a cool idea if economic growth, now expected to be 1.7%, went down to 2019 to 0. Counts 'em out. A senator on public financial legislation allows for a change in financial policy under those circumstances, i.e. if there is no economy, it goes down to 0, but it doesn't grow 1.7%?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We sat over those laws for a long time. Right away. A senator says that the policy is to bite now, however, that we have never put as much into the infrastructure as the various cases for many years, and then I'm also talking before a crash. We're putting money on a lot of things, so I don't think the policy is biting, not at least. I don't completely agree with that. Me and what. A senator, on the other hand, agrees on page 7. The law that we would likely change would give us the opportunity to do so. It's about whether we're changing policy, like the highest. The secretary of finance went over today, of course, it's a complete failure if economic growth goes to 0%, an enormous failure. I think there's something we could look at, but I don't want to say we could rethink our policy on that basis. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I think this is also one of the things I think we should get from the financial council into the work of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u58	Mr. President. I hear what you're saying. A senator is very pleased with the budget and government policy, but it is sadly based on reasons we know not to pass. We know that. We know that the number of passengers will be different than expected. We know that when economic forecasts are reviewed, it will be different and worse than this plan is based on. That's why I say, under those circumstances, when you have to move to size, and still give 20 billion to the rest, the policy is biting. When we were winning the government bill, we were mad. A certain senator agreed that it would be unwise to tailor such a narrowly inflexible position. Has a what? A senator acted within the administration force against this policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u59	A respectable president. It's known within the category that I work with what I think and left green is on the 7th floor. But that wasn't their opinion at the time, and I don't think she's changed. However, I would like to say that we base this strategy on the current financial programmes that we have, the changes that we have made under the budget, the up - to - date global interests of the Habitat, and the decisions the government has made on this. The living room took into account the decrease in tourists, the slower growth of private consumption, commercial investments, and so many other things, so that it does not fully depend on the fact that everything is a swing-ful. I don't want to say we know that this is gonna get worse, because we don't know, we just think it's gonna happen. That's not what we're predicting. We have to face the fact that ahead of us is work, and I think we should look especially at what financial advice comes to say about the uncertainty that we believe exists now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u60	Mr. President. The plan shows that the government plans further changes in the taxation of vehicles and fuel from year to year, adding to the planned taxation costs. The plan exactly says: The taxation of vehicles and fuel taxation, as well as the payment of tourists, is a means of reducing households' provision in the form of higher prices. Second, the plan says that the foretold small economy will be driven by personal consumption. At the same time as the government assumes in its plans that homes should maintain interest, it makes it taxable to this same home, allowing them to have no room for private growth. I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether this is not a paradox within the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He specifically referred to vehicles and fuel, and that economic growth was driven by personal consumption, this has now been very regular throughout the years. No, I don't look at it that way because we're going into the changing environment where we're turning to energy exchanges and other things, and there's a lot of time left in things that won't in my opinion that we're paying the continued fees we're paying plus some other fee if he's referring to it, if I get it right. To me, we cannot collect conventional driving fees and otherwise add on top of them. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to the carbon tax, it is increasing. I think that's just one of the things we have to do to speed up energy exchange so that we can live up to the goals we have promised so far in climate change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u62	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned the exact carbon tax and may well enter it. The program shows that the carbon price will be raised in the third year in a row. The media has criticized what we call the government's policy in the taxation because that tax is particularly damaging to the population. I think he's not leveled on the Americans in a fair way. That is why such an increase in the rate of tax, which the government has represented in the program, is abnormal to me. There must be a complete policy on how Iceland will use carbon expenditures in the battle against climate change without affecting or biting the land and competitiveness of industry and reducing energy from the economy. I'd like to ask you, "Have a what?" Don't a senator worry that this tax is not even on the whole of the country, and it is particularly devastating in the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u63	Mr. President. It's not a lack of direction. It is absolutely crystal clear policy, is it not to place on green taxes to promote changing energy sources? Whether or not it is inseparably distributed, well, it can be said that in the capital area, people will probably drive the most. There's a lot of people here. True, many of our distances are very long. It may be that there is something that we need to look forward to with counter measures in mind. I'm not going to rule that out. But in general, I think that the progress in driving vehicles and other energy exchanges, more research for innovation in everything else - we should put more money on it. We can do so even. by collecting the carbon tax, and thus allowing it to happen, even in the scattered areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u64	A respectable president. I spent the weekend reading a financial program that is now out - of - date. [[Up front.]] I am now giving a talk on a financial program that is out - of - date, 469 obsolete pages. When I say that a financial plan is out of date, it's not because of the weekend's news of WOW's problem. There was a high probability that economic forecasts based on financial plans were smiling as the economy was published no matter what happens to the airline. However, the uncertainty about hairy, collective contracts, and airplanes is not a reason why this financial plan is out - of - date. This financial strategy is out of date because it exactly does not contain any high - cost assessment of government policy. This is evident in a crystal clear review of the key financial spending issues, e.g. on page 24. 102, on the court case, by permission of the president: Then the spending range increases by 30 million. K. in the year 2022 and another 30 million. K. In 1923, but the task is not yet being planned. Also, on page 19. 104, on the grounds of individuals' legal rights, religion, and administration, by permission of a president: Then the spending range increases by 125 million. K. in 2022 and another 125 million. K. In 1923, but the task is not yet being planned. I've mentioned earlier that financial plans and budgets where government policy is not costing itself are like a kind of prescription: Here's a lot of money, do what you want. However, this is taking a further step, and I'm not dealing with jobs that need a price tag, here's a price tag without projects, and I'm not interested in buying prices. I have asked the question in the past how the General should agree to a financial program where government policy is not costly. Why should we accept documents of hundreds of billions without being able to explain exactly how those billions will be spent? To that question, I add: Why should the General agree to a financial program that asks for money in nothing? The 2019 budget was based on a budget plan of 2019,2023. After the November economic forecasts dipped in water, it landed on the cut - down knife. The budget of 2020 is based on February 22,2024, and now it appears that the plan will also come under the knife. What I'm worried about and why I think this budget is out of date from the first day, regardless of what is happening in the economy, it's impossible to see how economic change affects the state's budget. If space were available, where would we improve? If we had a crisis, where would we be cut? What projects are lower on the priorities of each topic field? What is the cost of government policy? Will there be again an excuse for the operation of a hospital or a nursing facility? Will there be ever again a change in the pension system? It's just a simple question: Who will be left unsettled this time? I find it completely unscrupulous that I have to ask this question, for of course the answer should be in the financial program as suggested in Article 20. it's a government law. It specifically discusses the use of funds in connection with government policy and is explained as in the Act of the Law, by permission of a president: A third is a decision made by policy makers about which way to achieve the desired goals. Here the cost, the impact, and the benefits of each one's efforts need to be considered and contrasted with their different factors. This isn't done. All cost information is missing. For example, what's the price? experimental work together with other service systems for advanced services to the most sensitive group of young jobseekers? What will enable specific measures on the part of the government to reduce greenhouse gas emissions? Or what will it cost us not to go to that operation? What would it cost to set up a powerful fund that sponsors innovation and development projects in food production? I'm not going to belittle these projects, they're really needed, and I'm going to give us a better future standard of living, but it's not gonna be hard to tell us how much this will cost, at least. It is often difficult to discern the effects and benefits, but at least tell us what this will cost. This is absolutely necessary for everything on which government funds laws are based. We need a financial budget to see the signs in the budget. We need a budget to see from annual reports to see if the project was successful in terms of cost. In fact, it is better to have an inaccurate budget than no budget. Then we can at least Do better next time. If we don't even start, we can never do better. Before I go on, I want to mention what I think is well done. Nothing is so bad that praise cannot be done for something. They've added a staging analysis. She's an interesting and welcome addition. More of this. A policy on digital Iceland. Great. A project to reevaluate expenses. That's great. A campaign of innovation. Brilliant. More use of consultations and prolongation of maternity. Good job. Most of these assignments are self - assuming, of course, but they can be commended when they are finally started. Now that it's up to business, silly. The government is now in the soup of the former government, which failed to cope with the massive pay raises of a treasure board. You can try to explain yourself to those elevations by referring to the criteria of different years or by freezing them away or whatever you think of, but no one has been able to explain the injustice that is in raising the salary of members of Congress by tens of percent in a single step. This injustice, as well as other government remunerations, is the second root cause of today's struggle. The other root is linked to a home, but the government's reactions have been small and slow. A financial program discusses how commercial power has increased by one third since 2013, and it also suggested that there is a higher level of income than there is in this country. At the same time, rent prices have increased by 55%, prices of 60%, and salary by 43.6%. It may well have been a third increase, but these figures show black in white that among the pay groups where the housing team weighs heavily, increases in the housing market have been severed. Rather, it is obvious that the wages of those who now have 300,000 dollars. in a month, and have risen by 65,000. in paid pay, losing power as the 85 square feet [85 square m] apartment in Breinholti has risen by 75,000 k. ... amonthin rent. Then I'm even using numbers from the previous half of 2017. The rent has gone up more since then. There are, therefore, some factors that can be said to increase the level of money and income balance in the budget, but there are also some conclusions about who have been given this power in recent years. It's not the underpayers who are demanding a higher salary. It has been necessary to see an increase in tax burden, increase in housing costs, tens of salary increases in senators and Ministers, impairment, and is then accused of being insane to not see what a good thing it is in Iceland. Yeah, that's good. It's good for senators. It's good for a minister. But how good will it be when the dolphin race starts? This is unavoidable because education must be evaluated for pay too. People who pursue education and sacrifice their first years of pension and income will be at least to win it back. The second possibility is that low - incomeers cannot afford a roof over their heads. I don't think that option will end well. This is where we live. Huge growth in tourism and accompanied by growth pain. True, traveling has quickly brought us up from falling years and has allowed life in many parts of the country. However, we have not had the volume of money to receive the torrential flood of tourism, which has caused damage to natural bulbs by propagation, and has set aside a good part of the housing market through the shared economy. As a result, there was a lack of housing and a rising price for housing that most affects low - paying people. Effects that led to a struggle to correct a dresser so that people can afford to pay for a roof over their heads. The current situation in extreme matters is the result of the inaction of the previous year, inaction in which housing problems were not taken seriously, inactions in which the raises of members of the Parliament and ministers were not taken sufficiently seriously. Piranha had solutions. During 2016's campaign contrast laws, Piratar put 11 billion into an apartment building as early as 2017, three years earlier and much more. The Pirantics also wanted to revise the decision of a dresser council, just as former prime minister, Davíð the son of Oddsson, did on the grounds of a decision. That's why we're here now because we don't take care of the roots. That is why we are falling out of the clouds, and our encounters are not flourishing and a variety of employment life built up through scientific, creative, and art. Therefore, we have an out - of - date financial program in which policy is not set aside but follows our own tail, a financial program that has taken away tens of millions of people on a project that has not yet been determined, a financial program that no one knows about the cost, and if anyone knows it, he would not dare to tell the Allied Council. We deal with out - of - date politics, the politics of the past, the politics of power, the politics of insurance that have so much to hide, the politics that bear distrust, and never assume responsibility until the damage has become irreverent, politics that dare not take steps in the future with a new constitution, hand in hand with all the Icelanders, politics that dare not share power with the people of the land. We live in an out - of - date system that serves only rulers who want to change as little as possible, slower than society changes around them. That is why we get an out - of - date financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Hv. A senator began his talk by referring to a hundreds of pages in an out - of - date financial program. I'm sure that's what I'm doing. A senator is not entirely convinced that it is out - of - date, as he spoke of. I can't believe it. One senator is willing to take the river so deeply on the grounds of a lack of cost. I'm not gonna argue with him about it. We agree that the more precise cost assessment available to us, the more we are involved in our work on the basis of a financial committee, under the role of budgeting, and the monitoring of the European Commission, to evaluate the benefits of single projects. I think this will be better for the future. On the other hand, if we're going to take care of the plan and do better, I'd like to commend myself. For a senator to point out an improvement in the report, such as the staging analysis and the missing analysis, it is part of the official financial law, in 62 C.E. ... whichturnstothe secretary's reports. We've just reviewed these reports with a lot of advice, and that's when we ran into this show. Now, in June, we're going to make another round in such reports. [[The president calls.]] See what? A senator realizes that we need something to correct in order to improve our involvement in cost - eating activities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u66	A respectable president. In terms of change in law due to cost assessment, it is very clear in the law and in the paper with them. I say this financial plan is out of date because I expect a big change in it in the treatment of the council. That means that the reviews we get about the document we're talking about today are based on that version, not on the version we're about to issue from the council, but on the figure that'll probably be much different. I also say that the plan is out - of - date because it is not under government law. They are missing the points that we have pointed to over and over again. If there's anything, it's worse than the first plan. That's what I'm talking about when I say that financial plans have gone out of date after it came out of print. Of course, such points as government policy on extending the birthworm are not out - of - date policies. I'm talking about the plan, how the General can handle this document, how we can read ourselves through it, and understand what we're accepting, so we're gonna see when it hits the budget, which is supposed to be a financial plan, some harmony between us. The Senate's appointment was to be saved on a financial scale so that key factors have been reviewed. But that is not because this document is not beneficial, it is not divided in the way required by the law. Then we'll have to go back through the whole process when it comes to making financial plans. That's why I say this document is out of date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm going to take one example of why. A senator certainly made what is positive here in addition to the current budget of 2019◯23, i.e. The plan that we will discuss is 20200/2024, which forms an extension of birthworm for 12 months between 2020 and 2021. The cost of that operation is 900 million. K. 2020, 2.7 billion. 2021 and 3.8 billion. of 2022 C.E. Of course, it's just an expense estimate. But these are the big lines. This is what the law commands. That was one example. The same is true of the expansion of general apartments, since there was an excellent part in a talk at the time. A candidate for what groups has been left behind because housing prices have increased beyond the cost of growth, which affects a particular group, including some. A subject in collective agreements. The rise of stock development to general apartments is about 2.1 billion up to 2022. This is all the cost in this way. Then there are certain goals, the number of goals that we know can be difficult to account for in the future. I think that as time passes and we start going through the reports of Ministers of the government and stewards who have set the policy, which will be for the first time this summer, we will be more realistic in reaching the level of the cost of certain goals, smaller projects, of the different problems we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u68	A respectable president. Somehow, we still get the total amount. In each field, a certain centenarian number, billions, or millions, is set up. Somehow we found that number. If there's no expense assessment behind that, I'm just one big question mark. And if it's an inaccurate estimate, why can't we see it? Why have we never been allowed to see it? I'd like to mention that I've sent inquiries through a financial committee to all of the councilmen. In the budget now, the last answers came from a number of problems. There's no answer in a financial program. I don't know if there are any answers now, but I guess these are the same questions we sent. But we need to sum up. It's missing, for example. The pay bridge now, which was not part of a financial plan, it's part of the budget. But it would be interesting to see this put together more clearly. To this day, I experience this 469 pp., the biggest financial plan, which is extremely much of the words to try to hide that there is nothing behind it. If there were anything precise, it would be put in place of spending on these many pages. It's a bit of a problem. The changes that took place. A senator spoke of a previous financial program and the current financial program, which adds to the prolongation of birthworm, should not this have been established in the last financial programme? We're trying to set a heading to five years, regardless of whether there's an election between the election or something like that, to get some sort of firmness, to get stability. But we're still in the same business with one thing at a time. You do not know how much money is set aside for the next four years in the financial program. What if the next year something about extending the orordains even more? [[The president calls.]] What? What about the general reserve? Why is it almost fourfold?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u69	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll discuss the state budget of 2020,2024. I would like to start by saying, "I like an arrangement for this discussion, a respectable president, end up in a manner similar to the one that was tried when we discussed the 2019◯23, just a year ago. You might say that we are now, for the first time, actually, getting around the schedule set out in the official financial law, i.e. that the same government will update a valid plan. This is the 2019/2023 schedule, based on existing financial policies and policy-making criteria, economics, holdings and debts for the public and public bodies, and reports are made in the schedule to the next five years on the development of income and the development of pay. If we look at the strategy, which we've never really made through because of the frequent election, we started with the highest power. For example, in December 2017, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is to provide funding for the year 2018, as well as a plan like the one on which we speak here and the budget is based. In turn, on June 8, 2018, the opening national budget was adopted. Now we're discussing an update on that plan. In the meantime, we've discussed a report by the minister, which is an important part of this process. At 62rd. a law on public financial matters, which is part of the legal section of the law that is involved in accounting and reporting, says by permission of the president: No later than June 1 each year, each minister will publish a annual report on the last financial year. There the results of spending should be explained in the fields of sufficiency and in his liters, and compared with financial resources, as well as to report the transfer of funds at the time. 30st gross: / 30. g........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Transfers between years and part of the budget are recommended. - Then the budget should be reported to Member States and projects and the benefits of their administration should be considered in relation to their specific objectives and actions. 20. It recommends that each minister puts in direction for the issues and lawsuits he is responsible for five years and is part of the law's budget. There is an important part of the procedure under law. For what? This report has already been reviewed by a legal committee prior to 2017, with the local Ministry. The year 2017, however, was in control of other governments, but now it was not the same link, so to speak, on the subject. So it really won't be until we review a minister's report before 2018 that we can close this process, from a policy of action. I have high hopes that we will then gain the context and perspective of decisions on progress and the benefits of policy needed for us at the council. There has been a lot of discussion about economic factors, and in the debate, people feel that the underlying factors are actually smiling, and before the printery ink is dried out, like a wriggg. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson expressed it. Others have found this to be true. That is understandable, there is uncertainty, and this is discussed in a report on the plan. It states that in particular the state is unsure of three factors. There is uncertainty about air management and travel services, conferences are in progress, and there is no way when and how the results will be obtained in that discussion. International economic uncertainty and reports have resulted from a decline in economic growth in the United States, as British exits from the European Union and in the prenup there is no hairyness. I have a full understanding of these warnings. It is necessary, as a strategy is needed to get a clear view of an environment in which things are constantly changing in the environment, and failures and habitats are part of a powerful economic environment. We are coming out of a much economic growth, and economic growth is sure to diminish. And, of course, as always, there is hope for the economy to land smoother. Well, that's our job, including ours. to build up the support and resources of public funds in a way that reduces fluctuations. The forecast of this strategy is February's Cat's prophecy, predicting 1.7% of interest, which is somewhat less than expected in earlier predictions. In its character, there will always be uncertainty and economic environment. For that reason, plans are important and important aspects of financial affairs because they, on the basis of given factors, are tried to control and prioritize money and give as the most clear picture of plans, such as here, to the next five years. After a year, during the next update, we'll know something more about these uncertainty factors, but there'll be other failures or bunks around the corner. If these uncertainty issues become clearer during the upcoming discussion of this strategy at the council, there can be no better way to follow this strategy than at the council. That must be the job ahead of you. legislators and other fixed committees as soon as we discuss the collective and unique topic areas and categories, to update it, to make wise and potentially inevitable changes in it, according to what information we call when necessary. After a long, steady economic growth, the rest of money, and the emphasis on subsidies, it has been the circumstances that we are looking at now when the economy is relaxed, it has proved to be reasonable financial management. It gives us the opportunity to continue on the same path to build up most of our community infrastructure and to return the rest to government policy. It requires that the remainder of total balance, as measured by the proportion of GDP, be within 1%, 0.9% for 2020, 0.8% for 2021 and 2022 and 0.9% for 2023 and so for 2024, respectively. Many have criticized the State Department, including the U.S. The financial body, that we have stuck on the floor of the policy that makes it difficult for us to see these economic conditions and to lose our economic growth. Actually, we haven't had to face it in that way when we are experiencing what we have experienced. The reason that we can follow the baseline and strategy and, despite all that it is intergained, is responsible financial management and subsidies with lower interest rates and a more favourable budget, in reality, the reason why in this program we are in a position to continue building up the infrastructure and to work on the debt that has developed on the basis of economic collapse, as well as to provide the discipline and support necessary in the government business. That is the fact that, in fact, ensures the sustainable and firmness of the government. This plan actually reflects strong position and firmness in the government of public finance. I'm saying that even though it relaxes in the economy, we can even see it. the factors being added to the current priorities and emphasis. Governments. Here we look at the increase in government investments for transport while we see that commercial investments become a drawback. Here is an increase in innovation and research and development, which is very positive in these circumstances and very important when we look to the future, build up, and economic growth. We add 4 billion to the current transport programme, i.e. to the 16.5 billion already there. So in total, it will be about 20 billion. The birthmark is being extended to 12 months in addition to the increase in payment. Increases are being made in the general housing system, additional contributions are available to nursing mothers, support for publishing, as part of the Management Plan. Secretary of education and culture on the growth of the native language, the proposed support for the media, and so on. Then there will be an assignment. The legislature committees and other fixed committees to go to the top of individual language areas, call for comments from society, and rather analyze the plans reflected in this vast plan. I expect a good cooperation with other committees of that job, with the ministry and the institutions. Hv. The legal committee will send a letter to other committees about the work arrangements we see ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u70	A respectable president. Only on these narratives that we referred to in the budget board and exactly the fact that it is a very small rate of government action unless it is part of these predetermined sizes, such as, e.g. the leg of birth, which makes it easier for you to estimate the cost. Then there are other suggestions that are being suggested, as in innovation, for a certain number, but that is not completed, not to say what the benefits will be. There's a lot of plans, e.g. fund for a food industry, etc. but don't tell me how much of the new creation goes there. It is also the exchange, not just saying what the big amount is, but how it is involved among the projects that governments take up by their policy. That's the only way I'll come to the reviews. They come and say: This food fund is a very fine idea, we have a lot of ideas about what work can be done and what is obvious, but we do not know the amount to be put into it, the extent to which it is being done. As a result, we cannot really say anything very intelligent about whether a government policy will achieve its intended objectives. In the end, the goals are also relatively vague. I'm worried about that, as I spoke about in my speech, that the plan is a little unusable. We don't get enough publicity if the plan isn't accurate and if it's not under government law. What can we do to improve this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear for an excellent question. We're gonna go for a second. A senator was only discussing this, I responded to a talk. A senator, and we've been through this a lot at the moment. It's a legal committee. I agree on the ground with what. Senator. Therefore, it is difficult to stand here and bind one or more of these materials. We've got this main line of work and we've got the basic costs. Then there are specific projects, many positive ones, such as whales. A senator came in about innovation, e.g. Food funds and all the hundreds of projects in the program on these 469 pages that we were reading this weekend, for our enjoyment. [[Take it up for fun.]] Then I'd like to reiterate that in this program it's very professional and good text, I want to mean, economic text which is very useful. With regard to cost food, we need to improve planning. I'm just gonna say it here, a respectable president, that it's a project including... Yeah. The Gaming Committee, and it's a call from us. A committee to the Council and the Ministry of Economics to work with us to improve the costs of specific projects. Of course, all the departments need to be more specific about where they are taking their policy. The main lines are in place, and I think that when we go through this process more often and finally reach the end of that, we'll make it right. [[The president calls.]] We will certainly call for memos on specific tasks, as we have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u72	A respectable president. As for this economic text, I'm not entirely sure that it will be part of a financial program after all. Of course, he should be there somewhere, but not necessarily in the budget, perhaps in the national budget or in other areas with which a financial plan might refer to them, such as to ease the weight of the page that often wants to be here, a form of plagiarism. The other thing I'd like to ask. A senator is about the development of the reserve throughout the programme period. Today, the common reserve of lip service is increasing, and we have had some good discussions about its use at the moment. It's a legal committee. How can you tell? A senator realizes that at the end of the financial programme, a fourfold universal reserve will be used today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Only to complete what we were discussing earlier, on the scope of this program. When I referred to professional text and economic text, I was especially referring to the very tricky boxes, as we have called for, e.g. about anomalies and economic rhythms corrected for survival, box two and three, really good presentation and improvement. I wouldn't want to lose it from this schedule. [[Take it up: I agree.]] Regarding the reserve, of course, there is uncertainty and should be used when some sort of disaster or unexpected incident occurs. Then, of course, it is always a question of how large such a reserve should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u74	Mr. President. Hv. A senator referred to my comments, in his excellent speech, to the fact that the economic presidents of this program were actually smiling. Today, it is clear, and the Haggis have actually described the failure of hairy matter in terms of less economic growth than is expected in the economics laid down here. It is also evident, in the challenges we face each day in the media, that there are prospects that are considerably inferior to the current year. A good stratospheric analysis in a financial program provides a real picture of the economic reality we are facing right now, saying that the process may be followed by the release of a government fund right next year by some 15 billion, with the end of the plan nearly 60 billion less than the plan, and however, there are ever so many uncertainty factors there. I wondered, and I asked why. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, on the same occasion, whether or not to give up on these conditions, the plans for further expansion, or the measures that exist regarding tax reductions in the duration of the programme. There's been a lot of discussions that this is a dangerous cocktail for which this government is formed, or the economic policy established by this government is planning both to increase the actual cost of the state's budget as much as it really is, and to reduce the tax on top of it. It seems now that it is time for a decision to be made. So I ask why. Senator: Which choice should we choose?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the question and answer. Yeah, I was referring to a word like that. A senator's reaction to the fact that there is uncertainty was very strong. She's flaunted, including. in a report on the program we're considering, at the same time as I'm pointing out how important this law is to us in times of uncertainty that are always there. That's why we're handling the state's budget for this planning process, in order to have a clearer picture in the uncertainty. I agree with what. A senator that suggests that the scenarios drawn in the report are greatly improved, and it is hoped that it is possible to ask whether or not we should compromise policy, whether or not we are pressured to compromise policy. Governments for the expenditures we are truly adding real value to most of the causes of suffering and lawsuits or whether we should avoid paying taxes. We are already in two of the budgets of our policy, with a reduction in the ban on employment and individual life, and we are not falling away from it. With the wise and responsible management of the past few years in government, despite the long - term expansion of expenses, we are paying off debts and 40 billion dollars. At the same time, we are able to maintain our course by building up a government system of about 5 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer, and of course I agree with him. I think it's more important in the position now to keep plans for less than a very ambitious plan for big-growing expenses, as we're looking at an environment where we've increased expenses for basic government management to cover more than 50% in real value in a few years, and we're looking for an additional one. In the end, something will not be allowed to happen. It brings to mind the other question about whether there is a cause, and whether we may even be allowed to reexamine the financial policy that is based on the plan. Like what? In his speech, a senator found that financial counsel has been critical, including the following: turned to the fact that in these momentous times, the purpose of the rest was indeed floored, but it is not required of the State's funds to be thrown into the floor. In fact, financial advice could have been understood, so they would have wanted to see a somewhat more handsome way of reaching out for the right time to cope with the present situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of the second, and good and important questions that we need to go through in this discussion. Indeed, in the decline of economic growth, we are reducing a little bit of an actual increase in cost without falling away from policy goals. It may be important to watch this in the combination as a proportion of GDP. It shows, in effect, whether we can afford to work into the inner debt that we congregations after the collapse of the economy. We look at a relatively equal ratio, just less than 11%, and it has remained at the same time that we have increased real - life expenses. Regarding the floor, it is accurate to the financial council that it would have been easier to cope if we had left more space, more effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson and president of the budgetary committee for a good speech. On page 18. The 395 program discusses the disability and issues of disabled people. It suggests that in the programme it is expected that there will be a need for a possible increase in expenses due to correction of microenergy payments caused by housing damage, but the extent of the case remains to be considered by the Ministry of Social Affairs and State insurance. I'd like to say two things, Mr. President. First, this growth is a fact, it's not possible. The government has to face that. Thus, this presentation in the schedule is a little strange. It is confirmed by the Ministry of Health that in recent years, the U.S.A. Second, there should be a plan like this, in my opinion, five years old, how much money this correction will cost. It is spoken of as billions, and if true, it is a substantial sum. I want to ask you why. A senator: How does he see it being financed? Will using the reserve help provide an effective response? Are these unforeseen expenses? Yes, it may be possible to say so, but it has been discussed in another context and might result in an emptying of it if used in the assignment mentioned here. How can you tell? A senator predicts that this will be financed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's answer and a question that has led up to what has been being done in the Ministry of Social Affairs and then at the insurance agency, to try to evaluate what this means. I think that food has been taken, quite conclusively, and calculated about 200 individuals. According to my latest information, it runs to 400,600 million. That's all I've been allowed to see farther into the future. We can handle this, but we need to see what the situation is before we can finish this. Yes, these are the financial resources we need to look to. This is in progress at the Department of Social Affairs and the National Security Department. When that is the case, the decision - making will likely be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Interestingly, he mentioned there, that there have been estimated to be a high value of 500 million paying 200 persons. However, it is said that there are 1,100 individuals involved. We will see that this is a substantial amount of money. It is conclusive that these payments have been used for micromasks, and this should be paid. I would normally have thought that in the case of such a large amount, it would be arranged in some way. This cost can be estimated in light of, e.g. for those 200 subjects that have been calculated. Then we'll see that it's billions of dollars. It's perfectly normal to me that there's a plan on how that amount will be raised and paid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I just want to reiterate that I've just seen these numbers, it was only yesterday or earlier, as Social Services and insurance agents, that I think I'm in trouble. The welfare committee. We on a budget have received no detailed information on the situation, and this amount is simply not available. It may well be that in our discussion of this plan, further information will be provided. Of course, we'll call for it, but it's only at this point, and that's why this is not contained in the exact amount of money in this program. It's got to be. A senator getting a divorce.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u82	Mr. President. It's kind of a little tricky to pick out how to deal with this financial agenda. I don't really know if I should take it seriously, because it seems obvious to me that its economic foundations are smiling, and that discussion is not meant to surprise anyone. It was warned that right at the beginning of this government community service, it could not work on the infinite purpose of both sides, to increase expenses as much as it really does, and to reduce taxes. The economy would simply not carry that commitment to a government fund, and it would be completely irresponsible to believe that the economic growth that was then clearly something excited could continue into eternity. It is good to review the warning words given here in this hall, both in discussion of the first budget of this government and the first financial programme of the government, as well as in many comments about the same government documents over a year ago. It was pointed out to the simple fact that the economic development of the government community as a given object would just never have taken place in Icelandic reality. I think the economy is filled with examples of the claim that it was different that time, I guess it could go along. But we are standing here 14 months after the establishment of government cooperation, and we face reality. It's perfectly obvious. It wasn't any different this time. From the beginning it was unrealistic to expect that this could go on so long - lastingly, and that would allow for the expansion of what the government thought they had is simply out of hand. When you study the financial program and try to identify it, you wonder why they suggested this journey. The road was set up because of careful financial schemes made for state funds to prevent what has been a characteristic of the Icelandic government for such a long time, that the government's budget is an incentive for the economy. We always spend what flows into the state fund of time and then we have to cut down, even in the basic operation of the state, at the same time as the economy is dealing with economic recession. These were examples that were considered important. It was, for example. the big lesson from the collapse that, after a very serious economic crisis, the state fund was not prepared to live up to the fundamentals given in the welfare system, where it had to cut down very handsomely, and we haven't been able, in fact, to stand reasonably by the construction of all roads since collapse. We had no room for that after a crash, and we have never really achieved our weapons properly, nor have we managed to pay off the barriers that were created there. Today, we face it again when it is getting cold. There is also no need to exaggerate that image excessively. The state funds status is certainly very strong. The situation of the Icelandic economy is certainly very strong in historical terms. We are simply going through adjustments, which, however, can have a considerable impact on the quality of the Kingdom fund and have seen examples before. I've previously referred to reality, such as. The year 2001◯2003, where the Icelandic economy probably passed through one of the most softest landings earlier and later, which, however, led to a public budget of three years, and even a considerable exchange, we know that the Icelandic economy is one of the most divisive things in the world. We know exactly how to react. When we go through such adjustments, there will be some confusion. Everyone may brake when these warning signs appear on the horizon, and we already see them taking place in all economys. Business investments are shrinking, the prospect is that there will be an even greater reduction. Forecasts still anticipate a very handsome increase in apartment investments this year and the next year, although there are obvious crumbling signs and the banking system has stopped lending or making significant loans to apartment buildings. When we look at the numbers, it is obvious that the economy is braking in front of us. This takes into account private consumption. It is quite expected that unemployment will increase something, and the rate of the state funds could temporarily get worse, nothing that cannot be controlled, nothing we've never seen before. But it's just this with learning a lesson from the story, that we don't need to go through the process that, along with this adjustment in the economy, the state funds also have to start cutting down expenses, cutting down investments, which we can't afford to cut down once again. The task that we now face as we look at these financial programmes, for we cannot send it back, is that a budget committee is likely to be able to deal with the necessary adjustments, it must be prioritised for the investment programme. There has to be some shoving down the swollen budget plans that the government has if we are to protect the necessary investments that we need to attack in and that are just very convenient to attack in these times. I also think it is highly advisable to bear in mind that we do not create a dangerous example, e.g. For financial policy. To date, there is no evidence that the recovery of the economy is such that it can be regarded as unpredictable or unexpected in some way or that it directly calls for a review of financial policy as such. The problem, however, was as the financial Council pointed out in its review of financial policy in its day, that it was used almost in terms of the survival of financial policy as a roof but not a floor, i.e. it was not careful to create even a good space to run a government fund well above this floor through the height of the economy just to have room to deal with the corrosion we are facing right now. However, I think this fact will test the administrative activities of these three groups. You see, the government's financial policy has come to pay. It's payback time in the financial program. It is shown that there are no lengths to plan both, to increase the real cost of even a dozen percent of state funds, and to reduce taxes, that the compromise established by the existing government simply no longer works out. And then it has to be chosen; whether or not to cancel tax reductions, which I considered to be completely delirium at this point, because at the very point where the economy is going through a certain adjustment, it may be very convenient for the state fund to have some leviation to improve employment and home status, or whether only to tear down the sails in the expansion that may be very difficult for some categories of the administrative functions. As a result, you may wonder that this is still being presented for new spending ideas, such as review of the academic loan environment, prolongation of the birthorfs, supplementation of the innovation environment, etc. All of these are very good projects. But now we've just reached the point where the government's budget needs to be established, and that I think it will be very difficult for the government to do so, because to this point the cooperation has been going on that it can almost be added in all its domains. It is good to remember that it is not merely an economic basis that is the weakness of this financial agenda. There is still no agreement with the rural communities, but it is expected that contributions should be cut down to the real value in the equation, that rural communities are made to take on a considerable part adaptation to cooling economy at the same time that their rural society has been fired with unsatisfactory resources, and probably substantiate the weaknesses of long - term funding. It cannot be avoided to look forward to being very ill and maybe least when it comes to the social security system, i.e. That they should not dwell in the same wages, as I understand, that there should be in the business of the kingdom by cutting the hand of these companies, seniors and disabilitys, compared with other populations in the community. I don't think that's the long-term peace. But after all - we must face that economic reality. [[The president calls.]] The presidents of the budget were smiling when it was submitted, and it will be the task of the Parliament to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u83	A respectable president. Hv. From the year 2017, a senator has been warning that the economy must cool off and that the basis for the budget 2018 and the financial programme that was adopted in that year, as well as those are all too optimistic and that these are all too needed to be revised, but so far it has not worked. Economic growth in 2018 was, in fact, higher than we walked out, and the State's construction of plans in 2018 was actually having just a little more than an estimate in 2018, despite that. A senator has always called an unprecedented expansion. Here we go. Again and again, a senator says that there are uncertain times, and we say so directly in this financial program. But on page 18. 27 lists national interest rates and the economics of Iceland's Habitat and we just stick to public forecasts assuming that there will be economic growth. It may not be that we are considering using a reference to something other than that. However, I noticed why. A senator, like a dog. paritaprevir In the early days of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, merely started to be cautious about reevaluating policy, that's not to be done. But how do you know? A senator of any sense if economic growth disappears e.g. in the United States, that we need to stick to financial policy since December 2017, by 2020? Then we realized that there would be a good economic growth in 2020, but if the conditions are all gone, like the dog. In this discussion, a senator might fear, and we might assume that there would be no economic growth next year. A senator saying, "We're still supposed to make 0.9% of the money?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u84	President. Thank you very much. Ministers the answer, there are many things that have gone over there. Is policy ever to be revised? I certainly don't mean that. In fact, I've been a spokesman for a series of flexibilitys. In economic events, such space must be clearly available so that a government can contribute to a new financial policy, although it would be a good idea even to cut very handsome in the business of the state when dealing with a crisis of financial policy that was presented in a good way. What I meant by my words, however, was that we should be careful about what example we set because we are building a reference to the degree of variation that must take place from economic forecasts so that we will take it so far as to revise and put on a new course. It should also not be that the slightest variation occurs that they can be overtaken by a new course. This is at present but a very convenient adjustment to the Icelandic economy according to forecasts, the same predictions as the highest. There's a minister coming in. Such adjustments, however, can have a profound effect on the survival of the Kingdom treasure. This may have been what was warned at the outset when the government's financial policy was established, that it would have to give more space to cope with such realities. It could not be concluded that all of this would be a dream forever. But because the official predictions are cited and what to use, it is proper that we find it difficult to rely on anything other than public prognostications. But when it is warned that they may be optimistic, when the Habitat itself has said that with hairy defects they are actually wrong, it has been very clear, that one of the basic laws on public finances that are careful. [[The president calls.]] There is no need for the last cent to be destroyed and no room for unexpected expenses when the economy cools off.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u85	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may have been critical of his time, and he has been consistent in that economic policy was changed to decrease the purpose of living. But that in itself would not necessarily have included a promise that humans would not go near the higher purpose of living. I think we would be in deep trouble in ourselves, especially with the situation as it is today, if we had set an even more rigid target of survival, as had been done in the government that served in 2017 after 2016 elections by 2020, at least. I think that situation may arise, if any worries arise. A senator's attempt was that there would have been no need to have more leftovers. It is my opinion that if all of this happens, which is not yet predicted, and we must base the discussion on current economic forecasts, which are worrying about, it does not make sense to aim for 0.9% of the wealth of the state, 30 billion of the economy that has been lost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u86	A respectable president. It is true that at the time, I criticized that standards were reduced and perhaps primarily because I thought that the government's funds were a good example. The end came during the day e.g. In 2018, the preliminary record of the release of the government was not met by the local community's demand for survival. Of course, the wealth was fired with a somewhat better way of life than expected. But there seems to be an underlying weakness in the survival of the rural communities, something that I think we need to deal with in our future funding discussion, both with the broader income base of the rural communities, as well as with whether our rural communities have enjoyed fair implementation in such projects as elementary school, as well as with the subjects of the disabled, which they have repeatedly pointed out to be an overexploited project. But this example is under test now. This may well be a review of financial policies. But it must be the subject of a financial committee to consider what examples we set there and what conditions must be met in order for this to be possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn, the son of Víglundsson, for his best speeches, as it is his hope and lead, he reviewed the economic and economic history of this and. In fact, we talked about this in the past in opposition to what happened. The senator at my speech. You're right. In his speech, a senator says that many have criticized government matters over the years for being swinging under the circumstances of charity or indentation, as we now experience. For example, the real growth of budgets was the greatest in 2017 and the top economic fluctuation of 2016. We're always dealing with this, exaggerating the poles in each direction. That's what they're willing to do, including. with a law on public financial matters, trying to work things out, and facing things the way they are and looking at us. This is certainly done in the program we are discussing. It even came. magazines in the public talk. The senator with analyses is all listed in the report. It may be in the context of why. legislatures and other constant committees ahead, like what. A senator came in, we make some adjustments if necessary. But I'd like to ask what. A member of Parliament: Interestingly, the level of consumption has been around 11%, which, of course, is a strong indication that we have had such an actual increase in expenses. Is it not vital, then, that we look to that decision when making the arrangements for money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u88	President. Thank you. A senator resists and a very interesting question. It has often been referred to as a last step that the government's spending as a share of land production, including the level of consumption, was somewhat unchanged. But here comes what might be called, in a certain way, the built - in balance of the state's budget over the years, that during the time of economic rest, many of the expenses of the state's budget are being saved. It is less unemployment, higher consumption levels, so both strong harvest gates come in and reduce expenses for various reasons. Thus, the experience has been that if you look at the terms of the national budget as a percentage of land production over a long period of time, spending tends to decrease, even considerably, in times of economic rise as a percentage of land production, and then increase again in times of recovery. It is, I think, also the weakness of this financial strategy that we have not yet discussed, i.e. that the effects drawn up on the state fund by some kind of swing or contraction or even a slower economic growth are very small in this financial program compared with what we have seen before. The fluctuation of government funds is much greater, or it has been so far, than the picture here drawn up. I don't think it's the defence of a great increase in spending to say that we had held a similar level of co-efficiency or the spending level of state funds as a proportion of land production through all the ups. On the contrary, it is a characteristic that we have been adding enormously to our expenses. It is contrary to the development of earlier years and decades, where the balance level and financial spending have tended to decline considerably during the economic situation and then increase again when it is combined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. My question was to the level of co-ordination. A senator put out here, which is correct, the activity of these so - called automatic rhythms in the economy, which are important for functioning. It may not necessarily be that those who accept this French economy may always need to increase their expenses just to deal with the contractions - timing is tricky, and this is, of course, a small matter of economics as well. But no, I wasn't saying that it was a justification that we were raising our expenses, not at all, but, above all, drawing out the strong status of the state funds, and we have what we're up to to. In the context, during this period not only is the position of the State Fund strong but the position of the households and businesses is also stronger to cope with recession.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u90	President. Yeah, you're right about what you're doing. Senator. There is no need for us to be in any fear-eat about the situation. Still, we have to discuss this responsibility, and there is no particular reason to fear that we will not be able to cope very easily with the adjustment that lies ahead. What I've been primarily critical of is that this adjustment was predictable with a number of notices, and it's always hard to tell exactly when it comes in. But this has always happened to us in the economy, the seven fat years and so, blessed rarely, seven leans, but it's still the average lifetime of us; seven, eight years of leaping up, and then we'll deal with it, if we can say so, every other time with a pretty rough crash and then a pretty soft landing. Well, I hope now we're off to a soft landing. It is a well - founded treasure to cope with it, but there is good reason to be cautious and not lose control of the government's affairs at that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I have to say, the government's as good as anyone. A senator was on 1.3% of the purpose of this development in 2020, so we see the transientness, the way it is. Of course, I cannot help but ask in the light of both the answer. The senator and his speech where he believes the main application tools are in order to eliminate the expenses of the government's strategy, and it sounds to me that perhaps that's the way the senator wants to go. Efficacy should be reduced or supportive measures should be discontinued, e.g. For teachers' sake or what? He mentioned the prolongation of the birth serpent and the like. That's one of the agreements that has been prepared to help. Does he think we should keep it? In what way does that count? A senator should respond to what he has considered here? He believes that the system is swelling it a lot that it's not wise to do this. Of course, we are doing a great deal of innovation, well over a billion, and we have presented many major projects that are already begun and will be done. Then I want to throw the question back as quick as possible. A senator turned to me, i.e. how he sees the need to deal with any collective agreements in a way that differs from the one mentioned here, i.e. increase in pay to public employees according to the objectives set in the programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. My review of the permanence of the state's financial affairs in recent years does not necessarily focus on individual assignments or priorities. For example, I personally favor the prolongation of maternity vacations. I'm especially impressed with plans to promote innovation, in fact, have some other ideas besides this government on what might be most beneficial to innovation in this country. That would be, for example. A real currency that our export companies could depend on, for there may be a swing in the currency and, in fact, the fact that we're using our export branches as a swinger which means that there's nothing here in exporting anything but what's basically an anchored we can say, our land base, i.e. fishing, energy-rich industry, and now the last tourism service. 85% of our exports in the last 203/430 years have been consistently confined to resource branches. For example, there has been no growth in the wand and technology sector that can be promised over the last three years. There are many things we could do but just put the money in. Lack of counseling the state's budget at any given time leads to loss of the position and sustained economy that should always be going on, as is going on in any business, at any distance as you look at the economy. There is always a way to do things better and more practical. I think there was a great lack of government management in this regard, and there is an endless opportunity to provide fully comparable service and support to the citizens of the country, but with less cost. But when all emphasis is being made on increasing expenses, there will be very little effort left to do so more effectively. About the second question why. I have to come to her in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council responds and hopes that I will get the answer to the second question. If I understand why. The senator corrects him, thinking that the keeping in general is too small, and that's why I must ask, because reverend must have wondered where it would be best to get together, what sectors to do it. The focus on health, travel, and education, and now on innovation, you must wonder where it was best. We live in a small economy. That's right. I'd like to come to the end, though this may be a lot of questions, but it's possible to answer them, I think, on this minute, to ask one of these pragmatic questions: A senator said that it would be wise to place spaces in his destination to cope with such fluctuations? I think it might be one of the things that might matter when it comes to the situation like we're in front of right now, to have some space in this. But I got it. A senator to answer the other question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u94	President. With regard to the question that I left left behind from the previous answer, I may be primarily criticizing it, and I don't think it's realistic to put up with a financial program that assumes that government funds will earn money from high-priority in the community, which is estimated to be substantially higher than the state's budget, and it will be presented in a very hairy and inexplicable way. In any case, it would be more honest to answer clearly where that economy should occur because there is a contribution to the wealth of state, built - in, we can say, which I believe should be clear. Where can you arrange? You can arrange for any government. Increased self-activating, increased technical efficiency. Residual management is a permanent project for all operations. Unfortunately, there seems to be no interest in government management in the economy until the crisis. At that time, eco-efficiency groups are formed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u95	A respectable president. It would be really nice if we could just put the national sink on autopilot, but it's not. It's clear that we've had to sail it through a lot of our surf boards, and many times we've given much more than we do right now. Clearly, we are far more economic than we have been doing for a long time. It is also clear that our economy has grown and prospered, tripled since 2010. Is that almost a record, I'd say, almost anywhere you look. But what does that mean? What does it mean to put up a budget plan for the next five years and talk about all the uncertainty, all the uncertainty we've been facing now, a failed hairy and a problem with air traffic? In fact, I have a high level of delinquency in the air now that I stand here and talk, and I still do not shut down the opportunity for positive changes to occur in that direction. So it's not just dark. What really stands out of all the uncertainty factors, as if I am, is the big fight ahead. What will result if we are unable to respond better to the minimal justice and the minimal reasonable demands that our little brothers and sisters call out for? The government brought a card that was actually a wet barrel in the face, 6500 bucks. reduction of tax burden over the next three years, equally to me with a high rate of 2 billion. in a month's salary and to the worker who gets 220,000 bucks. signed. V.E.G. A financial minister might ask if we are talking about the fact that those in the middle - class and in the community should not reap anything at all. It's a twist, a respectable president. No one is talking about it when we are merely focusing on those with the most poor in the community. We're talking about eliminating poverty. How beautiful it would be to see in the five - year government budget one major goal of eliminating poverty! The most powerful and successful thing we could do is eliminate poverty in a land that we boast is one of the richest and most successful lands on earth today. But it is not. There is talk of an increase in child development, which is far from a pair with what they were around a crash. They're talking about innovation. Good things are talked about, but the hunting costs are also being lowered. The bank tax is being lowered as well. These two are 11.3 billion, of which the state's budget will then be in 2019. If you look at righteousness, then you will find that tests, such as The Common Union's advantage towards the total tax burden of remuneration, taking into account personal withdrawal, response and other such factors, children, interest and housing improvements, all income groups have increased over 1998-9992016. That's great. That's great. Who's going to do that? However, the largest rate of tax gain is from the most treatable groups. This is why we now face turmoil in a job market, imminent strikes that are completely new to us in view of the past 30 years. I think we need to look back up to 2030 years without seeing anything else as we face today. Tourism depends on us having employees to do it, it depends on us having tourists to come to the country, and of course we have to have airplanes - we actually have 30 other parties to move people here but our fine airlines. But the fact is, if our workers, those of us who are working to keep the chains walking to embrace our tourists, if we are really going to face the person who seems to be in the cards, we'll face even more uncertainty than those we're talking about here and now in terms of a financial plan. Why don't we take care of the yoke and the housing team? Why don't we see that justice in there? Why can we not look to the plight of thousands of Icelanders? Why do we not accept it? More than 10,000 families lost their homes in the collapse. What was done for them? Is that not because of the people at their highest? A financial minister can say that the homes'debt was never better than today? Is it not because they are certainly not being collected from 10,000 homes today because their homes were taken away? It's a large group of people in the community who can't even get paid. I call it denial, an enormous denial of reality. I'd like to mention the housing team because there were some inquiries that answered at the highest level. Economic and financial secretary who informed of the effects of the housing team has actually had. During a five - year period, beginning in 2012,2017, the rates of an apartment loan had been paid for the general cost of 15 billion dollars. - Can you imagine, 15 billion bucks? - but at the same time, 118 billion additional deposit failed because of the influence of the indexing number's housing teams. The share of the price of housing is no less than 88.7%. How can a government talk about prosperity and stability when 10% of children suffer economic inadequacy? When disability are trapped in a poverty trap? Don't they matter? Don't they matter for the prosperity? Are they merely a cost? Is it just an energy load, as you have heard? They live at a cent compared to a decrease, and then they are blamed for it on top of the above if the ability to sign is not possible. A respectable president. You've become completely speechless about how you treat those who have the most bent banks and always seem to bend more. The government's priorities, the decrease in hunting fees and bank tax, are as wet in the face of fighters who do not make ends meet from month to month, simply do not have enough between their hands to fill acceptable community needs, do not have enough food, clothing, and shelter. How in the world can the poorest social group believe in the enjoyment of justice and basic human rights? The fact is, there is an amazing large group in the community that lacks any security that is insecurity, anxiety, and hopelessness, and that is at our command. Councilmen and the highest. Governments. I'm a disgrace to such tactics, a respectable president. Total disgrace. We're talking about prosperity. We talk about uncertainty in the state population, but we do not talk about the 40,000,550,000 Icelanders who are not allowed to participate in the prosperity that is hoisting on the lower back of the old habit. I'm just saying, I don't think it's time that we've got so many people running this thing, and this is the greatest thing we've ever seen. A secretary of finance who has spoken well and clearly for financial plans until the next five years, trying to look inside and prioritize our resources in behalf of all the people of the country, not just a few?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u96	A respectable president. I'd like to commend you. A senator for being his follower and upholding the interests of those less fortunate in society, keeping me a minister, and the government to improve the interests of those who have little to play. We may want to go different ways to do so. In my career, I have emphasized the need for us to increase the value of our country in order to do better. As we examine information on contributions to the elderly and disability that are included in the special boxes in this financial programme, we will examine other data such as this one. In the history of business, it is very obvious that in a short time, we have achieved a lot of success. In recent years we have seen the provision of older citizens, for example, growing beyond the provision of other groups in the country. Not so many years ago, the lowest tax was also well within 200,000 k. and the same for social security benefits, such as the lowest tax rate, that there has been a dramatic change over a short period of time. What I want to say to you is why. A senator when she calls for more and more activity: What criteria are we to look at? That's what I'm talking about. A senator, e.g. with the Department of Social Affairs cutoffs? Or how to weigh the cost of ideas. A senator to go further? [[The president calls.]] In this schedule large amounts of donations are expected, e.g. I'm in the micro-terrestrial business, but I'm gonna make this work in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u97	Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. The magic word here is vanity. I've been talking about that magic word all along. It doesn't matter how many percent have been added to us if we're desperate, if shopping for food costs even more than a few percent. What am I aiming at? The minimum endpoint must be the minimal improvement criterion of the Ministry of Health, which, in fact, is strange as it is, this fall of 30,000 k. or about there without any explanation. It's amazing if the minimum transposition criteria just pop down. Could it be that we are always calling for a minimum wage to be drawn into what has been officially accepted as minimal progress? All you're talking about is stopping taxing poverty. If people who are working their backs off and they get 220,000,400,000 bucks. If it's not poverty, if it's not fair to tax it, I don't know what it is. I say, can we get our hands together and start setting the budgets differently so that it really looks like we're doing it for those who are asking for help? We know that because of poverty in the community, there is a real fear of living. It's like, I don't mean to be mean to the highest. Secretary of finance, that he simply cannot understand what it is to have problems and to look up at his child without having anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u98	A respectable president. I mean, about the last thing that ever happened. A senator says that for some time I've been a political president and gone through a number of elections, and I've been a senator for 16 years. I've dealt with a lot of people in my career, which gives me an excellent perspective on the position of those who have least. I have attended very few meetings with them, and I have listened to their viewpoints and have studied these matters better than many people, I would say. But it doesn't change, no matter how well you understand the problem, that you need ideas that work out the same problem. What I was doing in my first answer was the result of the past few years, which is unambiguous, very large. In fact, I'm proud that we had managed to do this in no more years. I'm not saying that everyone's problem has been solved. On the contrary, I'm saying that we've only been successful. There is still a problem in older citizens, especially in that many have absolutely inadequate pension rights when they arrive in retirement years. And in the case of microchip, we have certain poverty traps that have lasted many years of hard work to identify and solve with new rules, a new system of distribution, if I could put it that way. But what I'm trying to get here is simple ideas about what to do. A senator sees that we are expected to do much for each of us, and from where the funds are to come, how much we need the State to make arrangements for these classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u99	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. What's the problem? There is no need to eliminate poverty and to stop taxing it at all costs. Just before I fell into Congress, I was getting paid as an invalid of 218,000 dollars. per month. I had had to live with it, then it had raised pretty bountifully, for a pretty long time and with children on the forward. With all due respect for 16 years of plagiarism. A minister and all the stories and other things he has had to listen to is two different from facing someone who tells you the sad story or standing in the middle of it himself and who has personally experienced it. There's a lot of ocean between them. And if it's the highest. A minister would really be willing to take the simplest facts. In terms of the social security system and particularly about the growth in disability, there have been reports of enormous growth in financial expenses. I have pointed to the simplest solution to find out who really trusts to go out to work, promise them to pay taxes from their jobs, to try to make jobs for them, not necessarily to make something called a workout that disembarking them because they have become so burned. The way this system has been fooled around with them and has been crying through the years. So why not go along with others who have simply paid off so that every individual who went out to earn money in the state's budget, even though he still gets paid from the social security system? After reaching the workforce, he has two or three years of adaptation. More than 33% of such individuals did not return to the improving system. I mean, isn't it worth it? Do we have to sit for years here and roll over the simplest things just to make them complex? I challenge the highest. Secretary of finance to step outside the box, for I believe that if anyone has the strength to do that, it is him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for a very generous, dynamic talk, and I listened attentively to each word. Hv. A senator sits at ease. It's a legal committee. We have a lot of work to do. First thing I want to do is encourage 'em. A senator to make good use of his time on the committee and to call out for all information. There's a lot in the talk. A senator I'd be quite willing to enter. I'm going to start by talking about it for a second. A senator enters, poverty. We don't have to get into the tax, me and him. Senator. Social security is something we all plan to live up to. Each and every one of them. A senator who wants to work on it. If we put this in context to the priorities of money, and that is our job in this case in public finance and the plan we have to look to, we face the situation of 6 k. per 10 K, 60 k. of 100 who enter health, social and health and insurance, and housing. That's where the main weight is. We want this money to return to those most in need. To some extent, this will grow in proportion if we don't put our arms around it. That is our task, our joint assignment. I'd like to use this first part here in an antiquated way. I'm impressed by a senator. Of course, we may not agree completely on every route, but we agree on our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u101	Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budgetary committee, for the counter-reguage. Yes, I must be optimistic about the ability of things to change. Of course, we're going to get this financial plan in the hands of a budget board and the highest level. The secretary of finance specifically encouraged us to do so, at meetings with him when he was studying this budget, to study it, and to meditate on it, and to keep an open mind on it. If we could see things going better, we should be diligent about it. Yes, I look forward to dealing with this budget, and I really hope that we can do well. But I don't realize as a complete member of the Committee how far we can go and what the Commission can do about what we're getting in our arms from the Minister. To speak of poverty is really one thing, and I am grateful for the arrival of the Shock People and the voices of the people here today. I wished to come here to represent us, and those who are in our arms in this society, and I'm grateful to be here, and I'm grateful that the body of Congress has put their arms around this party more and more in the past year than I think history shows that it has been in the long run. I say: I look forward to carrying out this assignment, and I really hope that we can show it with boldness and courage that we can change things to a better viewpoint, and we can do it together to a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yeah, it's gonna be our job at the moment. The legal committee is to carefully review all lawsuits. I want to, because I gave my first answer to saying we agree on our goals, say that there's no one here to live in poverty, and we're supposed to aim for everybody to live in social security. All of us are trying to pursue it and to take advantage of the money we have. Now, we have a valuable creation here every year. A third of that treasure generation is an extensive budget each year. Then it is always a question: How can we use this third of our wealth? We have our job life, and we have our homes, and then we are collecting taxes to provide a supply of services to improve the standard of living, as mentioned earlier, 6 out of 10 k. This is our project ahead of us, how we use this money. The range of vectors will not increase much to or from. We always have to look at valuable things every year. Hv. A senator entered a crown across a dollar. We all agree that it's a bad system. The political has wanted to change this system for years, but we still need to look at it in this context. As soon as we say that there is no overgravity in the lowest terms, we must also be in a position to correct them. No government has long put as much money as this government has made, 4 billion, to begin winding down this system. Whether it is being disturbed by your ability or something else, we should first work out the solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u103	Thank you. A senator for the counter, 6 K. Of the 10 patients, there are health and welfare issues. How can we change that? How could we possibly see 5 km? in 10 or even 4 K.? How can we do that? How can we work to meet the community through prevention and all manner of action, getting out of the box instead of always continuing to put our right foot ahead of the left and, in effect, changing little in order to see real changes in the right direction? What can we do to see real changes? I can't help talking about a crown across from a crown. It's said that we're going to step up and do the other thing, and that's what we're going to do. On January 1, 2017, this was taken by older citizens only with one pen mark, just as it was put on after a crash with a single penline from the left control of the time, or the government that was then established. I'm saying, we can take this crown off in return for a dollar. All you need is the will. It's as simple as that. And those 4 billion who had then dropped to 2.3 billion that was supposed to fit into the system because they were waiting to see each other out of love and so forth, no one knows where they are yet. There is no record that it is being carefully placed there in this series of lawsuits that seem to be known as a cent against a dollar's deduction. Nothing's cleared up. There are some fundamental elements in everything we must build a whole - souled structure and try to discern whether we are coming or taking what we are on our way with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u104	Madam President. We've been discussing here today the fiscal arrangement for a financial program in the year 2020,2024. All of this has been very fine discussions and meaningful. - I thought I hadn't said anything so brilliant in here so that there's a reason to answer, but I appreciate it and I look forward to them. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u105	We're counting on you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u106	I would like to approach this discussion from referring to this fine report on the basis of the financial program that has, of course, been questioned. I think it is inevitable, though, that we are familiar with what it contains and that we are not speaking it directly down so that we become hopeless. There is one thing that I would like to draw out at the outset for a discussion that took place earlier today. When people discuss policies and goals, we have in the great goods that we have spent in recent years increased the financial expenses we have had. That discussion has also taken place today. In itself, we have not stretched them out as a proportion of land production. We've had an expansion we've already had. In recent years, in the past, we have given up our Kingdom funds with more material resources than we have been looking for. I think it's important that we draw it out in this discussion. For example, today the committee's party was distributed sled. The Theocratic Department of State Accounts of 2017, which shows a better outcome than the budget adopted under the special circumstances of the council at the time. Much better off. A preliminary update for 2018 actually shows better living than the planned amount. So we have been responsible. We have also achieved better results than we have planned, and the objective of living up to the State Policy has been achieved better. I think it's important that we keep this up. We've sailed faster in the economy in recent years, and there are a number of factors that indicate cooling, and I think it's important that we admit it and work with it. In recent years, there are countless things that we have done very well and prepare to cope with such downturns. Everything that goes up has a tendency to come down at some point and grow faster, as much as has been in recent years is not necessarily desirable. Under these circumstances, it is of great importance that the main influence of the economy in this country is in order. It's public finance, it's the money policy and the labour market handles matters in a responsible way and that all these people I'm referring to are concerned with their interests in order to maintain the economic stability and prosperity we've already earned. This is really the project that we have to have inside the budget discussion for the next year and for the rest of the parties who play a major role in the factors I say are the core or dominant authority of the economy on the land. The financial agenda makes it clear that the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter provides various measures to protect this economic situation, e.g. with introductions into dress interview and continue to return the rest of the total public living. Illumination on home and a business falls in a practical way. The debt and the weight on it continue to decline. At the same time, cost-effective measures are expected to help achieve agreement in the labour market. All of this includes the policy published in this financial program, its core, and the effort to achieve it. I'd like to say because of the discussion that's been conducted today, I'd expect we'd have more focus on the news in the past few days, e.g. I am glad that the messages sent out in a very clear way due to this discussion have been successful and will continue to be agreed on. On the other hand, I reject, more dignified President, that the basis for this document, this financial program discussed here, is smiling. I can't agree with that, and I think it's way too deep in the years, especially with the way we've been handling things in recent years and being more effective than we've been looking for. We can refer to material discussions a year ago in which the same warning was given in a specific way. Well, that's going to work out at some point. If you're always predicting a disaster year from year to year, one day people will get a hit on it. That's what history has taught us. A year ago, there was a warning about shrinking, but we are returning a budget for the past year with more economic growth than was being chosen. I'm not doing this to minimize the concern of people about what is in the economy unless it's not so much. I don't want us to make them more or more serious than material does. In particular, I rejoice that financial programs are put forward with the basic data it should build on. Then there will be an assignment. The budget to work on its work and treatment of financial programmes, and I pledge that all committees will do well in this regard. We'll have to, especially because of these circumstances, call out more reporters and call for more analysis than maybe before. When such clouds appear on our horizons, surely we should look for the weather and discern it as best we can. Another debate that has been prominent today is the course and whether there is reason to pick it up and how we can react, as fear of man is concerned, that there is a recession in the income of a state fund and a financial recession. First, I want to point out that we have this strong economy that was last year. We still have no reason to believe that the expenses planned for this year's budget or the financial agenda for the next year will not be able to follow. It has been pointed out in the discussion today that significant funds are provided for reserves, especially in the latter part of the programme, and then financial policy can potentially result in a review. I agree with the viewpoint of these three factors and say that in a certain way it is a rigid force for governments to associate with economicism, but perhaps, if we look at it from the viewpoint of the council, we are not in the same way tied in, for of course it will be the decision of the council to apply it or to walk about it. Just like the highest. The secretary of finance has repeatedly said in this discussion today is not in itself a coward to revise policy if economic growth is intertwined and there is no one. Why, then, should we pursue as much further goals as possible? A respectable president. Time runs away, but there are a number of aspects of the financial program that would certainly be reason for hammering and especially drawing out here in our discussion. This will most likely be shown in a discussion with the minister of individual litigation groups. I just want to emphasize the results that we have achieved in recent years, which are also displayed. in recent years, in which we have dropped the debt of a state debt tremendously, almost halved in 2012, 2013, from 1,500 billion. This means that, so I get it out of my way, a respectable president, that by the end of the 2024 financial program, the interest rate has dropped out, if I take the number right, 3% of the GDP in 2013 to 0.5% in 2024. It's 75 billion swings. I feel that the reason to draw out particularly at the beginning of a financial discussion to the next five years is how immensely important it has been to pay off the financial debt and achieve this success. This is really the oxygen and the rock we can build on to get through the potential downstairs now in the maps and then rebuild the Icelandic economy quickly and continue to build a good standard of living in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u107	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. A senator, experienced in the work of a financial committee, has actually passed through the molding of the rules we are doing and may know better than we do most of the thinking behind it. That's why I wonder, like a cot. A senator was only included in his talk, the conditions that would be needed to revise financial policy. I don't know, I don't know. In effect, a senator would need to become part of the economy so that we had come to the limit that the government or council would be at odds with reevaluating financial policy from the start. She is, of course, supposed to be fixed up in the terms of the state's budget over a whole term. I would be interested in hearing a point of view. A senator there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I thought there was something in his opening words that helped him because he was so early on asking to give me an answer. I'm one of the three or four senators still sitting on the ground. A legal committee that participated in the preparation of these laws. We went through this together in government and government, and then we've become a participant. We discussed quite a few things that need to be there to reconsider policy. The first is a change of rulership, but those conditions are not met now and will not be met. Second, it is major trauma, and we talked very much about definitions of major events and how much decrease would be required in the economy or whether economic growth would have to go away. It was a viewpoint that we discussed quite a bit, if that was the case, whether the policy could be revised. What I was trying to say in my speech is simply the view that eventually it is the council that makes this decision, the council that controls what goals should be managed by financial management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u109	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It must be one of the basics, prior to a review of financial policy, that there is some obvious action to achieve balance from the current policy. Then, of course, you can look to it, as it were. In his speech, a senator found that we are responsible for the unprecedented or unprecedented increase in Kingdom fees in recent years. Whatever the standards we choose to view, the financial program will be considered here for further increases and reductions in taxation. What's wrong? A senator in front of the choice now whether to review financial policy, either risk further tax gain or to cancel tax reductions, how much more so. A senator wise to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u110	Madam President. Before we come to the indiscriminate delinquency of subsidies or reviewing their expenses, it's tore up very clearly, in a Senate re-imbursement program, how we use a government bill, how we can possibly sell state property, etc. To their deliberation, we would take it sooner than to withdraw the expected tax reductions, proclaim action on collective contracts, etc. That's how I'd like to answer it. Senator on first action. There's still power in the economy. We must not talk about the economy like the crack is on all the wheels. A 1.7% interest rate is predicted. Today's economic climate tells us that there is a great deal of energy in many areas of employment that weighing up factors that are intertwined. Let us, then, approach this point only to say that 1.7% of economic growth is a good prospect in the context of the objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u111	A respectable president. There's been a little talk about this circuit and economic forecasting, i.e. that financial, financial, financial, financial, and financial policies do their part affect economic forecasting and economic growth, in fact and in some cases. What I'm interested in is the impact of this financial strategy on the prospects we now envision, based on the economic outlook. Is this to strengthen the situation in a practical way, or are we pushing the down cycle that she has seen in recent economic predictions? I would like to know if a financial program is exaggerating or blocking the situation, and I would like to have some sort of analysis of it in the financial and economic agenda, even when it comes to government policies and how it affects economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u112	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's an interesting discussion. In this conference arrangement for financial planning for the next five years, these devices are used to increase investment because they are contracting in the private sector. Then the government must go further. This can be done because we have prepared a wealth of government for coping with tragedy. He's much stronger. We have new economic growth in the past few years to reduce our debt so that we are in a much better position to cope with a recession now in the maps, regardless of what he will be. Then I'm going back to what I said in answer to what I said. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson. However, we must not talk about this, so we now have a boom on all the wheels in the economy, for it is still that economic forecasts say that 1.7% of economic growth is involved and that is in the context of some of the economy's economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u113	A respectable president. That's exactly why I asked, to make sure that the financial strategy is not exaggerating the economy. I find this interesting if government policy so far has built up the foundation we work here from here on out. It would likely also have had some effect on the decline, some kind of expansion that explodes and falls down. That's interesting. At the same time, the financial program describes the future as having certain uncertainty, and that makes the reserve so much available. I would have thought government policy was to eliminate uncertainty, but we have already received reports that there is so much uncertainty about the future despite government policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u114	Madam President. I think this is exactly what I'm doing. Hv. A senator later made it clear that the financial program is to stimulate the economy for other strands, and a government fund works in this way as the swinging device we need. The provision of a reserve, and by creating uncertainty, let us carefully review it at work. A legal committee is what this really means. In my knowledge, this is a natural precaution to the uncertainty. Let's go through it together. I agree with that. A senator that in itself we should not have to, with such a powerful policy tool as public financial legislation, have very much uncertainty about how much money is handled for a very long time. That's exactly what we were going to get out of there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u115	Madam President. I've been very critical of the government's financial plans before today. I want in answer to what you're saying. Yet, a senator rejoices over one factor that the transport sector is not expected for cats. I really enjoyed it, because I was very concerned that as it was established and discussed, it would be my district and my supreme. A secretary of transportation who should carry those taxes. Now it is true that a council party. The senator was very interested in putting on road taxes, and certain members of Congress went through the country to hold meetings and advertise and talk about how good the idea was. In other words, it's not the transport sector, and I'm happy about it. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament why this transition has taken place in the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question and for discussing the part of a financial program that I let go of in my talk because I didn't have time to cover transportation. Why is this not part of a financial program? I'm saying that it's not normally in the financial process because that discussion has actually not been emptied. We don't have a complete picture of the project. We haven't been able to connect the threads I'm saying we need to connect, reviewing traffic taxes, fuel taxes, etc. and then how they play against charges. Hv. A senator may be asking one of the members of the Independence Party, which is the most positive thing for the user fees. I'll be quite familiar with their high support of transportation, which, for example, is the case. In my home or district, to form a rural organization in Western lands, this is a means of funding in this way to speed up the development of a structure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u117	Madam President. Despite interest. I am glad that a judge on road taxes was prepared for the next five years and especially when we are considering the transport process. I'm not an advocate of road taxes, although I can agree on the need to remuneration when the energy exchange has taken place, which is another story. Another big issue that I don't think is being handled properly in the budget is housing support. There's talk of adding to building a general apartment, and that's fine. However, total housing support does not go up, so it seems to take care of growth or other housing support to finance the construction of public buildings. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he thinks it's dangerous, e.g. The campaign group's proposals are not financed, and no money is set to make its first purchase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u118	Madam President. I'm not going to admit that I've been dependent on that subject, but whatever it is, it's like this. I totally respect opinions. But I think it's a discussion that we can't help taking the future taxation process. Wait a minute. That's what a senator does when we get to work at night. The budget to analyze financial and financial expenses for it, to put in context the things it mentions. There are extra budgets for housing, and we need to consider the emphasis there is. I'm not going to argue that I've read the strategy to the end while preparing for a previous discussion on the synonym. That's what I'm going to store for my work and that's what I'm going to do when the Minister of the Tribal will be here to answer later tonight. [[The president calls.]] The main thing I wanted to finally show up, a respectable president, is that this time it's gonna matter. This body's interpretation proposal is being made up of a legal committee to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u119	Madam President. On page 18. 270 of the programme shows that the reduction in agricultural donations from 2019 to 2024 is 768 billion. K. It's clear to me that Iceland's agriculture is being run into as never before. The Tolla Convention on the European Union went into effect on May 1. This contract will lead to increased import of agricultural products, especially meat and cheese, in competition with Icelandic agriculture. Clearly, this will have a major impact on Icelandic agricultural production. On top of this big issue comes another big case, which is the judgment of the EFTA Court, that we must authorize the import of raw meat, eggs, and milk. The Minister of Agriculture has presented a bill in that state and, unchanged, the import of raw meat begins in the autumn months. Unfortunately, I have not seen in the plan that there is any news of the budget being given to provide a source of counterweight action on this matter. I'm asking why. Senator: Isn't this financial plan a crime against the agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u120	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He ended it by asking: Isn't financial planning a crime against the agriculture? No, she's not. In the text of a man who had his head. A senator refers to it as the basis for the figures in financial programmes. These are the combined reductions. It does not, however, reflect my opinion of how the agricultural work is otherwise; we would need a much larger and deeper discussion about it. The Icelandic agricultural environment is based on two main mails. First of all, it is the market agreements that are under consideration and funds to them, and the tax protection he enjoys. Both mails have been dwindling in recent years on the Icelandic industry. However, this financial program describes the agreements and the sums that apply to them and that do not go backwards with their words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u121	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I am aware that these are the areas for reduction in the agricultural contracts, but I am pointing out that they are to be properly recorded and that they are likely to be required to perform counter measures and finance them. V.E.G. Agricultural minister has spoken for counter measures, but I'm afraid I must say that I can't see this any more than I can see so that there's more in word than on board. We'll see these two big cases, i.e. Toll agreements with the European Union and the so-called raw meat, will have a significant impact on agricultural working conditions and on Icelandic agricultural production. It is quite clear that this must be done with counter measures, but it must be financed. Ain't perfectly normal, anyway. A senator, mentioned in the program how to meet the agriculture at the great offense that now comes from the European Union and its rule of action against it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u122	Madam President. This will take place in accordance with their requirements. We will conclude from a revised sheep contract. He's at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. As far as I know, extra pay was not negotiated into that contract or their increase in money. The contract is being revised on the working conditions of the cattle farm, and I don't know what their conclusion will be like any other one there. Hv. A senator deals with counter measures due to the findings of the EFTA Court. They counter measures, rough. A senator, in fact, can be far more valuable in action than in sums. I don't think we should lose sleep, although we don't show up in financial programs to handle matters that way. What is more important is the nature of the situation. The job board provides a case for the council and its guides for the agricultural minister following the processing of the case and for what counter-requisite measures there will be used in the setting of rules, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u123	Will now continue a discussion on the budget of 2020,2024, and then the Ministers will explain and participate in discussions about their classes. Tonight, there will be discussions on the litigations of Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, and Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers. A debate over the lawsuits of other ministers will be tomorrow. Over an hour and a half is scheduled for each minister and discussion about his group of lawsuits. Ministers have five minutes in the beginning to discuss their lawsuits. Thereafter, members of Parliament can direct inquiry to the Minister, one from each cabinet for each minister, with the exception of members of the Council and two from each government position. Senators and Ministers get 2 minutes the first time and 1 minute the second time in both traffic. Those answers are not allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u124	Mr. President. We'll talk about financial programs, like the highest level. The president mentioned at the outset. This is the first financial program since government law on public finance went into effect, which is another financial program. Thus, the nature of this budget is based on the current strategy discussed earlier, which, of course, was a huge change from previous plans. Thus, the main policy of the present government in terms of income and remuneration is already in place and continued in the same direction. I've tried to keep track of the discussions today, and I realize that a substantial proportion of them has been centered on what if the basis for this financial plan changes: what if anything happens? The budget presented is always based on the latest data available, which is the latest economic forecast. So Ei has to be secretive about the situation of the economy. Of course, when it comes to the debt of the government, we have seen significant developments. So is national savings. In fact, all social security numbers are very positive. As soon as we see that the economy is likely to slow down, there are excellent circumstances to cope with it. While employment investment will be reduced, it is important for the State to step in with an increase in public investment, which is being proclaimed in the budget. Under these conditions is a significant increase in transport, innovation, and technology. Thus, government investment levels are expected to rise considerably over the next two years. This effort in investments is very time - consuming and aims to secure the level of employment in the country. In terms of investments in innovation and technology, which are aimed at exploiting certain funds of land induction, I believe to be huge, not just economic matters, but economic issues that are aimed at increasing the support of the ever - growing economic systems and increasing the way of knowledge intelligence in the country. I'm not going to go into the expenses of any particular group of cases because that's something that individual professional ministers will do. But I must mention the plans the government has made in connection with social reforms in terms of collective agreements. In particular, I would like to mention the prolongation of birth vacations, which are important biographies, especially for young children, the development of the general housing system, which attaches it to a system, social housing system, as well as the change in taxation measures from the basis of established financial programmes, which include substantial increases in child repairs, as well as some other measures to the remuneration and measures to improve the work of the media, both large issues that are relevant to these factors. Then, in particular, I would like to mention increased contributions to the construction of new nurses, which will also be of great importance to meet the great worldwide need there. I mentioned before. Senators would have discussed that the plan was based on current economic forecasts, which is, in fact, criticism that I cannot agree with. I don't know what else the plan should be based on. But it's nice to talk through the subjunctive and I don't belittle it. But I would like to point out that financial advisers have suggested that there is a need for interpretation. The financial program fails to do so. The forecast is published on page 18. 58 on schedule. At the same time, we are improving the implementation of laws on government finance, developing ways to cope with long - term planning, as well as trying to imagine the potential for these abnormalities. In terms of the Ministry of Presidency, they may be in a hurry. I'd like to mention that there is a sharp difference in the construction of the Board of Directors. Its design and projects are expected to end in 2023. This is what the policy was set up in a resolution adopted to celebrate the 100th anniversary of sovereignty. These contributions are greatly remembered when it comes to the subject of the Ministry of Presidency. That's 140 million. K. During the planned period with the preparation of a population at the National Haust Office of Iceland, which was also planned in the last financial programme, but an additional part of pay statistics will be included. Finally, I must mention that equalities have moved over to the Ministry of Presidency since the last financial program. There are little changes in expenses for the seminary, but there is something wrong. Councilmen need to consider, assuming that donations to equal funds fall down after two years that match the conclusion that was accepted at the time for a five - year allowance to equal rights fund, but that is something we need to look beyond whether we want to make changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u125	President. In any case, it cannot be overlooked that this forecast is not consistent with what it now looks like. Therefore, when we consider the plans or the vision published by the government in this financial program, we must be reminded of the reality of those matters. In discussions up to this point, I have not felt that the representatives of the greater part would respond sufficiently to such comments, merely cut into the same process, as they intend to speak out of an economic project that is no longer impossible. At the same time, there is expected to be a considerable increase in spendings in certain areas, although there is a need to save elsewhere where possible and, most likely, could be saved to meet the increased expenses elsewhere. In effect, I'm talking about the blunder of the so - called government that this government has continued to expand and will proceed with a financial program. This is especially evident in the Ministry of Ministry. Prime Minister, who has had the increase in Gigantic. In the last budget, a 50% increase was expected to be made to the Ministry. That must be an isolated case, despite its involvement, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister mentioned, things such as design of the Board of Directors, which, fortunately, are no further than in reality. Nevertheless, a significant increase, about a third increase, is expected to be expected for the Ministry of Presidency since 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u126	Mr. President. Hv. A senator encourages us to think about reality. Let's just think about reality and review the discussions we had a year ago on their financial plans and on the budgets that were put forward in the autumn, where it happened. Councilmen at the government stand had exactly the same language, doubting the basis on the latest economic forecasts, felt that it would not last. But what has happened? Didn't last year just last year work out pretty well? I wonder why. A senator. So let's ask ourselves, " Who's talking to reality and who's not? ' Hv. A senator here talks to the Council of Directors, which he believes, fortunately, did not come very far. I would be interested to discuss it with you. The senator, for he now proposed this decree, if I recall correctly, as the highest. Prime Minister, perhaps I am mistaken, of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court, with a addition to the Board of Directors. I know I shouldn't ask what. A senator, but I would still be interested in knowing if he felt that he would change these plans in view of the conclusions that were agreed here. As regards the growth of proposals to the Ministry of Presidency, there are a number of factors, e.g. that a number of assistants were probably not represented in the budget of the Presidency Department of the past but were provided with additional relief supplies. I think it's more clean and beneficial to just have those numbers on the table so that they're open to the opinion and criticism of early financial and financial levels than we're going to fail later. It is also clear that significant funds are placed in legal reviews. Of course, a senator has been involved. There we expect certain funds to consult the general public, to use the reasoning polls that have been proposed in a memo for this work. Of course, they're costing money, I'm willing to admit it. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's also important that we review the accounts for the money. [[The president calls.]] They don't only have staff growth, so I'll say it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u127	The president prays to the highest level. Ministers and senators to watch their deadlines and feel that he repeats his speech from the beginning. It is clear that this is a big discussion for two days in which there is a exchange of ideas or exchange of hundreds. As a result, a time schedule will soon be reduced if there is considerable improvement in individual inputs. Therefore, presidents have decided to show limited tolerance in terms of their lack of time limit, and they will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u128	President. Of course, the Ministry's work is costing money. However, there is an outstanding increase in the cost of projects at the Ministry of Presidency without any apparent reduction in any other site where projects have been moved. But because of the highest. Prime Ministers call an assistant, and this government has met with all its previous qualifications in the counseling of assistants. It'd be interesting if it was the highest. A minister informed us of the increase in staff of the Ministry of Presidency from the highest level. Minister took up the job. How many were already the highest. Ministers took over, and how many are there now? Regarding construction at the Board of Directors, my main concern is the design of that building. If she is properly designed and beautiful, and in order to improve her town plan, she may be at great cost, even though we may not start paying for some Reykjavíkurburg price on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I now agree that it is important, of course, what this structure will look like. Of course, there is an award proposal in that matter - and that is what it is. A senator's worried. He's here. [[She's the one I'm worried about.]] I have put this into the hands of a judicial committee who judged this design best, gave her a award for the competition of design, and has put the most emphasis on the fact that all of this process survives its inspection and is as beneficial as possible. It is true that the Ministry of Presidency has attacked various projects. Not only have there been cases of equality. I mentioned an earlier constitution that I'm giving a great deal of pride that we're doing well, and we're spending our money on public society. I don't have rhythmic numbers for the staff of the Ministry of Presidency and what the situation is between the time I took over and now. But I'll find out what it is for. A senator on the first chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u130	Mr. President. It is true that it would have been intriguing to discuss the case of individual senators with the latest financial program. But here we are discussing the current plan. The prospects have become so dark that the foundation is sadly broken. And since we are not in history and are designed to look to the future, we are forced to discuss it. Of course, there are good things in this regard, but worse things. I can name the tax changes the labor movement protested, dropped contributions to university, reduced housing support, and reduced donations from an equation that will take on the services of the people and the disabled. But most of all, I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to answer what will be done if the economic cold becomes higher than the basis for the plan meets and heads for it. V.E.G. You see, a minister himself has given strong warnings about the financial order on which the government's financial policy is based. Thus, in 2017, she said in a talk, with the permission of a president: ▪ Why am I concerned about these financial rules? Yes, I believe they will bind very the hands of the Commission and the legislature to make decisions about how to inject in the systems we feel we need injections. Now it's got the highest. However, the secretary of finance in an interview said that if economic stress slows the growth, he will see no alternative but cutting down on the budget team. It was not exactly this situation. A minister warned in a speech less than two years ago? So I ask, is it the highest? The prime minister agrees with the secretary of finance that this is the only way? Will there be a way to earn money, and then how? Is there a way of removing the financial rule? Or do we no longer agree that defending our welfare system is the most important thing to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u131	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He'll point in here, if I remember correctly, 7th par. a law on public financial matters that set up certain financial regulations. You're absolutely right. Because me and members of my body were the only members of Congress who opposed this rule when the law was given in 2015. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Well, I'm just going to think about it, there were four people who said no to it, and there were senators left green, if I know the right thing. But I'll go back and check my phone, because there weren't four members in the left moving group together at ◯ green volunteers and then the United States. Let's just think about this next time. This has been made clear by the highest power. Today's financial and economic minister that we are better equipped as an economy to cope with tragedy than we've been in a long time. There's a lot of money left over here on government business. We've been set aside in a reserve. It is one thing that we have agreed on when it comes to government policy that it is important to have a table for food. Hence, we naturally look to ourselves as better equipped to cope with unforeseen events than often before. I say, "Unfortunately." Councilmen review the scene and believe that they are aware of the potential impact of air traffic trauma, which has been widely referred to here, so when we make long - term programmes, we must base on the official data that are expected to be based on the shape of such policies. We will not change this course between days if unexpected events occur in private companies. Indeed, they can affect the economy, indeed, especially the small economy such as Iceland, especially the economy that could be more efficient than today. That is why I made a special subject for innovation earlier. But this is the methodology that we must base on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u132	Mr. President. It's very bad if you have to spend half a minute trying to correct the wrong move at the highest. Prime Minister. [[Up front.]] That's how we agreed on 7th paragraph. The members of the United States voted against that article, explaining that they would eliminate the rule as soon as they arrived when it was clear that it would be approved. Naturally, however, members of Congress voted for the entire public financial law, so it's wrong for a minister. I don't think I know what's going to happen, but we're made to react to what might happen. We're already on board. We'll see how things work. When it comes to a decrease in the balance fund, which is important. We see that it is a built - in standard for the public work. This is no time to raise but from 3.8% to 4.3%, so that there is no room for a pay raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u133	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can come up here and correct me, but the fact is that when these total laws were elected, there were four members of the council who said no, and I was one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u134	I said 7.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u135	Because of 7th. [[Up front.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should save himself big words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u136	That's what I think you should do, too, dear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u137	Yes, yes, but it is quite possible that this was protested by our council. [[The president calls.]] Then I want to say it here that... [[Take it up in: Good, like a real guy.]] I'm going to go. Senators, maybe...? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u138	The president begs to give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u139	[[The point is, it was your senator.]] Yeah, I know exactly that was my senator, huh? Senator. For management of public business as a matter of course. Of course, a member of the body mentions them regularly to reevaluate our public expenses. For this reason, the law on public finances is counseled to regularly reimburse expenses. There are, for example. The purpose of promoting a highly digital service that I think can be of great importance and that can also be of great value to others. Only in the past year was e.g. saves up to half a billion by handing up cases electronically instead of sending letters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'll just confirm it, if it's the highest. Mr. President allows, [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u140	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u141	That's right. That's what happened. A senator with regard to a vote on 7th paragraph. law on government finance, just so they don't call it... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u142	Regardless of what is considered, there is a need to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u143	A respectable president. We will discuss the budget of the current government for the second time. I have to say, I celebrate a great deal of government financial law. Seeing this work with the Pharisees today is so different from what it was a few years ago. I'm so glad we're making plans for a long time. That is important to us. I want to say the bottom line. But at the same time, I appreciate the importance of looking into staged images that can arise in response when and when things change. There are very positive things to be considered in the financial program, to make sure that we continue to have positive financial resources and that our debt continues to decrease and thus the interest fees. For the first time in this period, we will live under the standards that we have in the laws on public finances. The way we have worked in recent years has thus provided the scope we now have to invest, both in economic and social structures. There is clear evidence in the budget. In particular, I would like to mention the emphasis on innovation, research and technology development, and how we may see it in order to increase the support of Icelandic living, to keep us from being a resource - related economy to being an intelligently designed economy. Then I'd like to celebrate the prolongation of birthworm, a huge equality. It is one of the highest metals. The prime minister has had his own level, so it would be nice to hear from the prime minister what sort of changes she will make in the affairs of equality, both when it comes to equality between the sexes and the equality of all people, i.e. About gay people. I come to the other question in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for specifically mentioning the equality issues and, of course, research and innovation, which I am late tired of saying are important to the future. On the one hand, the college business is increasing, and more investments are being looked forward to research, evolution, and innovation as a whole. I think it's extremely important that we do better. In recent years, many have been done, and it has already proved to be very effective, e.g. in the software sector, but you can do better. In terms of equality, there was a problem. A senator of the birthworm, which is a huge equality, and it is important that my country also knows about its competitiveness, on the one hand, to ensure that young children can live here in a position comparable to young children in other countries, and on the other hand, it is a huge biography. Everyone knows that the time between completion of maternity and the absence of room in high school can be very difficult for young children and a marked decrease in their standard of living. As we examine official data such as the history of income, we will see that this is the particular group of people who, along with more groups than these are. Come on, on the equality issues. One of the points mentioned earlier is that we have an equal reserve that has had 100 billion. K. In a year for five years. This contribution decreases during the planned period, as the approval of the Parliament assumed a five - year period. I know there's been a discussion here. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, whether it's a reason for long-term looking at the fund, which has not only strengthened research but also instruction and other non-inferiority projects. Then there is a door - to - door review of equality. That review was done in ancient times. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was born in the office of Ministers of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It has been worked on the maping of this lawsuit class. But it's probably going to be the biggest project in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u145	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister and would also like to remind you that equality has become the exports of our Icelanders and the basis for our foreign policy. I'd like to encourage the highest. Prime Minister to adopt the huge equal language that prolongs birthworm, especially in the field of community cooperation. I encourage the government to cooperate effectively with their societies, both the balance fund and other measures planned in a financial program. I had been thinking about asking about building a Council of Directors, but in view of the House Master of the Council, why not? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, has only come into it, I intend to use the time further in discussing digital services. True, that was very much done at the time, and we have taken certain steps. How sad it is, though, to see how much we have moved back in all international comparisons when it comes to digital service! Indeed, all the structures are there. Therefore, I welcome the initiative mentioned in the financial program and would be fine if it were the highest. A prime minister may consider what she does to support herself in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u146	Mr. President. I think we have a lot of opportunities for digital services and agree with what. That's what a senator does. Iceland has good technical infrastructure. We have very good communication connections. We have an amazingly high share of community media, likely some kind of World Champions, when it comes to participation in Facebook and other community media. At the same time, however, we have fallen back into the digital public service. I mentioned earlier that we have already seen a great deal of savings, e.g. by moving government communications into digital shapes. I believe there is a very great opportunity in all resources and administrations, both to simplify the public administration, which is very well connected, and to save access to these areas from the public. I'm looking at it as an opportunity to do it, the same time we've raised certain other factors we can save in those areas. This is part of the fourth industrial revolution in which we see employment changing. They will also change for the government, and we should welcome that trend and view it as an opportunity to serve people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u147	President. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister of the government contract that is being done must be able to find his way into these financial programs, especially in the light of future agreements. The government's contract says that the government will support the making of agreements will be successful. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the scope of this government to do, as stated in the Treaty, in support of the successful outcome of collective agreements? The extra reserve's up to something. Could not find out exactly how much numbers are ambiguous, though well. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear is now reasonably good at understanding it, and he will call for a financial committee to know exactly what is being raised in this reserve, the general reserve - so that all of you at home get divorced have come up with some $10 billion, it seems in one place that he goes to 30 billion. How much is it? Because of this fund, the government can move money to support the projects needed during the period. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is her contract in the fall budget, supporting the development of collective agreements, as stated in the Treaty, after she and the members of the Parliament have agreed to this budget in spring? It's due for a second round. in mid May, it will probably be approved sometime before the end of June. After they accept this financial program, how much have they locked themselves up? Clearly, then, the government must provide a financial bill that reflects it. But has she established the entire body of government officials not to be able to change it during the next fall, if that is the case - in support of collective agreements? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good question. What's the deal? Well, what we're doing to pay for a bargain is no secret. It is largely sparked by our conversation with the labour market partners. Therefore, we expect to have increased stock growth, e.g. so that there were a wide variety of apartments and that they doubled over the period of 2020-2023. This is because the labor movement has put great emphasis on promoting the social housing system. We expect more child development, including because of our combined labor movement and because our data - I mentioned the history of income earlier - show that the shoe is failing. That's where it's important to add. I spoke of the birthworm. It also comes out of our conversation with the labour market partners, and this, of course, is a huge biographer for the people of the country to extend the birthworm as mentioned earlier. So we're showing the cards, showing some exports we've been working on when it comes to income taxes. With long-term schedules, governments at any given time do not pull an unexpected rabbit out of the hat when it comes to collective agreements that do not conflict with financial and financial timings. I also think we're on our way out of this kind of work. It has been criticized, I know that the government is not hiding its maps, that all of this should appear in the final meters when it is established whether contracts are reached or not. I think we're just trying to get out of that kind of work. We want to work on things the same way with the labour market. This has been the purpose of a formal conversation that has taken place in the area of the Ministerial Resident since the past year. Of course, there is only room for it. A senator already mentioned reserves and other matters, but most of the measures are being charted in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u149	President. I'm asking because there's so much going on. Now I'm going to figure out how these suggestions for child improvement and so on - and then to who. They clearly come to those who have less money between their hands, those who are in the early part of work, etc. How interesting it would be to see what it's coming back to in centenarians! The workweek is now referred to as short as it is. There is something that still has room for you, and the workers may be talking between themselves, that the workweek is a little shorter, which means that you have more overtime hours if you switch it, etc. The bottom line is: Yes, it's been very positive about the housing issues and other factors. It remains that the recommendation regarding tax decline does not reach those who have least, those with the highest salary. They will not receive the tax losses being proposed by the government. We'll see they don't start until exactly this step, if you don't get through to that, you won't get all the tax loss. There's one thing. [[The president calls.]] And there's about 1 in 10 of those requirements that are actually being followed. How much room is there to increase tax reductions on the most income - dependent groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u150	Mr. President. The curve? Of course, we're increasing the reserve and we've been increasing it. This is to deal with certain unseen factors. But what I was saying earlier is that we're trying to put the card on the table to a lot more than we've been doing - because we want to look for longer. It can be calculated, e.g. ... withthe children'shelps, what they'll give in crowns. Of course, it is different whether you are single or married. It has been calculated that for a single parent with two children, this is 114,000. For example, it is a year, and there is something about which. Of course, in terms of the tax proposals, it is much longer than I can cover, much less. A senator mentions. But we're going into what we call a progressive tax system with three paces, with a low-level low percentage. We're moving more towards the Northlands along with what we've been through. Here, the tax-free threshold has been relatively high. The northern countries have had relatively low - income levels but lower tax limits. So we're moving to a little bit of the North American system if these suggestions are being carried out at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u151	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for coming here and her introduction in a discussion on the 2020-2024 financial program. The nature of a matter might be said to say that one of the greatest roles. The prime minister is what is called a co-ordination role, the making it all work. The report reviews all the elements being involved in the government field and in the seat of the Supreme Court. Minister, large policy subjects. Of course, it is tempting to discuss them with regard to the budget and money issues because they are one of the major projects under the control of the world's economy. Prime Minister. The Minister's Committee on Economics and State Money, we have several Ministers and are being added, and now we have a Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities. My question is, do we imagine any further Ministers, and it works? Because we don't always solve everything with committees. Then I'm going to finish in the second round to discuss the genders. This is where we came to see you. Baska's administrative committee and was very interested in what we're doing in a sensory budget, which has been mostly at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. Now, however, the issue of equality is under the authority of the highest power. Prime Minister. I'm going to get into it a little bit in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u152	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a matter of the arrangement we have, where we have two legal Ministers Committees, the Ministers' Committee on State Affairs and the Ministers' Committee on Economic Affairs - which we call the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and the Reorganization of the financial system. However, since then there has been an acting Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities and the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunity, which is primarily focused on the projects required for a special Ministerial Conference and the need to coordinate operations between different advisers. We don't have a multi-organized government. Iceland's government is not a multi-organized administration, each minister is responsible for his own business. At the same time, political discussions have developed, so there is a greater demand that a minister's political responsibility take over the entire government. That is, in fact, I think, that was a prelude to the decision to initiate such ministers, first in the time of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir as prime minister. I believe this is an enormously important tool for integrating the strings of different schemes. It is often difficult to do so. For example, I've often reported that in my time as a minister of education, it was most difficult to let the different departments work together, since the Egyptians are often quite thick in the administration. When an assignment was made to try to open a school door for people who had lost a job and had not completed a student's test, they would have lost their right to unemployment if they had gone to school and, as a result, lost the extension because they were not entitled to study. This has called for cooperation between me and the world's highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. It was really surprising how complicated it was to have the Ministry work together, despite the sincere desire of both the Ministers and the good will of the administration of it. The Ministers'committees have proved to be very important tools to have the Ministry work together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. And, yes, I'm glad to hear that the Ministers are working. Often, there are other committees wanting to be extended only to the decision-making process, but it's good to hear this, because this is a major policy-making issue. For the sexment of the budget, at the council, we may not have seen so much financial work in the financial industry as it was perceived by a form of gender. Of course, on certain projects, but not in the context of the objects. There is now an excellent report, a basic report, at the highest level. A minister published in March, and then a plan, a five-year plan, about the gender of the fund. We heard of the interest of the Basque District government, but my question is that it has been said that there is a lack of data, gender data, so we can take the step forward. [[The president calls.]] Where does that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u154	President. I am very pleased with the work being done in the sex - shaped sheep - making field. The basic report as of absence. A senator mentioned that a great deal of work has been done to draw up data, yet there are considerable differences between causes of suffering and compromise. They offer suggestions for the next step and are especially viewed as factors that may not have been necessarily what you think of first, but they are very important. It suggests that the next step will be especially directed toward urban, transport, employment, and competitive funds. That is a fact when we look to those who have been practicing the detected budget for decisions we make, e.g. for transport, gender may be very different, since the sexic pattern is different. The same can be said of jobs. We have a highly sensory labour market. I think the government should start a policy on how we can break it up. In that eye's eyes, the sex of money can have a significant effect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u155	Mr. President. I'd like to state that there are a lot of things in this financial program that I like about, like, a lot of positive points. I think that most people can agree that it is good to increase expenses for certain lawsuits where wood needs to be built up that have been laid down. It's all really for everyone, especially within the governments, in this financial program. They are trying to integrate quite different viewpoints. That's what we did last year, and we do again, this toxic mixture, to lower taxes, and to continue to cover our expenses. They're in good shape, no one's protesting, but it's incontrovertible. This is what we've been drawing out, how we protect, and how we put things first. V.E.G. Prime Minister spoke of progressive tax changes. They are highly respected in many respects. They're trying to reach a certain end, not enough. We have presented our proposals for 14 billion, which do not come at exactly the same points as the present government. We have said, "We want to reduce taxes and expenses especially on low and intermediate groups. " Don't let it go up all the way. But left green prefers to bring the tax system changes up to the entire scale, including the high income groups. I don't really think that's very progressive. The other is that I've been observing the discussion today, and that's unfortunate, I feel, as much as the government is in denial, up to the delicateness of normal criticism. It's a fluke, it's a recession in tourism. We're getting upset about collective contracts and more. Exactly what has been presented in the financial program to lead to the loss of income. Speaker - Forgive me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u156	It's not...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u157	Then I'm going to have more time because I'm talking about a talker of the left green, who said today, after asking whether to lower taxes or to reduce government spending, that if she were to hire alone, she would cancel paying taxes. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask the prime minister: " Where will the prime minister make the move? ' Where is she going to set priorities? Secretary of finance has talked about the need for cutting down if there are traumas. [[The president calls.]] Left greens have said: " We'd rather stop paying taxes. [[The president calls.]] What does prime minister want?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Because of what? A senator began discussing the government's tax proposals by saying that I am very pleased with the government's tax proposal, for I had a representative in that group. I am happy that the changes there are suggested about the exact development of a three - step tax system that is being corrected for the inequities formed by having different standards on different steps, by harmonizing the steps. We immediately changed the previous year's criteria to the suggestions, since it is important to stop the current tax rate. Of course, there is an evenness of action. The motions then suggest that the criteria remain compatible but that they are based on consumption and production, which would also be an attempt to link the development of thresholds in the tax system to production in the community, which I think is also an important economic tool. It is also suggested that taxation, a huge equation operation, be transferred exactly 3 billion from the highest income people to the lowest paid people. With a three - step system, changes are relatively much higher in low - income and middle - incomeers than in high - incomeers. So yes, these are the good tax reforms proposed. I'm very pleased with that export, how we ease the spells of the remuneration, because we're going to guide it, guide it, guide it, and guide the tax system toward the norse tax system. I would have thought we had a lot of support in this room, so I'll tell you clearly. Then I came to my opening talk that here in the budget there is an irregular forecast based on financial tips, and it is important that we recognize the scenarios that might arise. But I must admit that every time we're working on long-term programmes, we must base them on the latest and best data we have. [[The president calls.]] That's what this financial plan does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u159	Mr. President. I feel sorry to experience again and again the denial of the government of the situation as it is today. It is visible to all who monitor the business environment and the economic environment. All right. The tax system is headed toward the Norwegian environment. Halfway. We rejuvened it. This 1,915 billion room we have to lower taxes, we don't put it in the high-payers, but the government is setting it up on a whole scale. We're looking at the low and intermediate group. All right. There's one politician when the government runs another. I want to reiterate my question. This was clear on the part of the minister of finance when he answered what would be done when tribulation occurred. He said: It's time to cut expenses. When a left - green spokesman was asked today, "What are you going to do? " Should we cancel paying taxes or cut down expenses? she said that she preferred to cancel paying taxes. What will the prime minister do if the shoe fails? Can you get a clear political line? Or is the matter so delicate, once and again, at the government table that things cannot be said out loud?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u160	Mr. President. I don't dare take my memories on votes, although I don't think I've been wrong at the ultimate vote on government earlier, but I can't remember any better than the members of the reverend went against the increase in capital gain tax. I'm glad that if the reverends want to look to the more tax gains on the wealthy in the community now. That's a good thing. I remember that members of the Party opposed the increase in capital taxes last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u161	How about an answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u162	By establishing the criteria, as I mentioned earlier, we are preventing the recurrence of the tax system in the past few years, from increasing inequities. Hv. A senator asks me to answer. Well, it was evident earlier in my answers and talks and also at the highest. Secretary of finance today, if any. A senator was listening, and the highest. The secretary of finance said today: What's good about this is that we have a lot of resources and resources so we're prepared to face the tragedy without cutting down expenses to important issues. [[Up front.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator does not have to worry deeply about problems within the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u163	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for her history and for being with us here tonight. Not very much is in my heart beyond what has been revealed, unless I would like to ask the highest of questions. Prime Minister whether she feels that her priorities are reasonable and reasonable. Then, in particular, I'm talking about 7 billion dollars. decrease in bank tax. We are reducing the bank tax by 63% in spite of the uncertainty in our farms, both in the case of hairy deficiency, in the absence of the cold business ahead, in spite of the so-called reserves, as has also been so much discussed. I'm asking, because I can't understand it, not only about the 7 billion bank tax, but about the reduction of the fish costs to 4.3 billion, which is especially useful to the majors and to those who are rooted in that profession. We're talking about 11.3 billion. V.E.G. Prime Minister: Would we not have been able to use the funds for those whose feet are in the community rather than to reduce the curses on those who are rooted?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u164	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before, she's also concerned about the situation. But I also need to remind you that in the Haust for this financial strategy, there is, of course, a significant cooling of the economy to form a slower growth of private consumption, a decrease in economic investments, a decrease in the number of tourists, and to some extent, this projection seems to be a projection. I think we're also supposed to watch the Hausi projections, recent predictions, assume certain factors, and that's what we're considering in this financial program. Hv. A senator mentions a planned decrease in bank tax, which we have not yet taken sides with here at the General Assembly and is not yet in charge of the council. However, this proposal is based on previous programmes where this tax was set as temporary provision for 2013, and it was estimated that it would last for four years to finance a particular operation that was then under attack. Then he's stuck. One of the points to, both in Gylfi Zoëgi's report, in the process of contracting agreements, and also in a recent financial white book, is the fact that the Icelandic financial system is considerably more expensive than the banking systems around us. There are a number of reasons. One of the reasons mentioned is that the taxation of the banking system in this country is more than local practice, on the other hand through the bank tax, and on the other hand through a special fund tax in Iceland. That's one of the things we're going to have to talk about when we're discussing it here at the General Assembly, and this is up to the plan, even though a bill is still not presented on this issue, i.e. whether we appreciate this operation will, e.g. Give me a lower interest in the country, because the results of these two reports I mention here are that the financial cost has the result of being higher than it would have to be, which is, of course, a huge case for the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u165	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. Despite the lack of this decrease in the bank tax, if I know it correctly, it is expected in financial terms. I'd like to know if it's the highest. Since the prime minister finds that his priorities are correct in this matter, we can see, when it comes to the council, how we would do it, and if we would do so together, trying to examine it in the light of the need to make more use of this money, in view of the fact that the banks certainly do not have a palace. They're shoveling money, and they're doing very well, which is fine. Short - term relief, says prime minister. I would like to remind you freely of the short - term measures that occurred 35 or 40 years ago when the so - called oil charge was placed on Icelandic sailors. That tribute, and that oil price, is still of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u166	Mr. President. Yeah, you're absolutely right. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, they're a number of the short-term strategies that have lived longer than expected. We watch that analysis suggests that the cost of domestic financial systems is high, that it is expensive. Then we must be ready to examine ways in which we can reduce that cost in order to bring back lower interest to the public in the country, for that is also a huge matter of life. That's one of the things that Gylfi Zoëga points out in his report when he's considering what could lead to improving the lives of the public in the country, which includes. less interest, lower cost of housing. There is something that we are trying to build up in a financial program by improving the provision of social housing and other factors that may be responsible for living without direct regard for the cost of pay, as this was actually the project. If the cost of the banking system in Iceland is greater than anywhere else, we must ask ourselves, " How can I reduce that cost? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u167	President. This is a reason to continue to discuss only the growth of the show, for this government under the highest leadership has been enormous. Prime Minister. In 2015 the expenses of the state's budget were 698 billion. Based on this schedule it is now assumed that by the end of this period the spending of the state funds will be except a total of 1,067 billion dollars, i.e. From 698 billion to 1,067. That's a 53% increase. So you must wonder, " Is this government absolutely not concerned about the enormous interest in its budget? ' I know the projects are important, but they were also 2015. It's the highest. The prime minister of the belief that there is nothing to worry about, as long as more money is expected? It's the highest. The prime minister has no chance of saving his government's expenses? Because there won't be much of such a thing in this program. They're being added here and there. But where do they save back? Is that an extra thing in the government's opinion? Prime Minister, looking for ways to save and reduce unnecessary expenses? For all of this is what the people of the land pay their government funds. This is not the money of the government. She is making taxes. Is it not reasonable, then, that we look for ways to apply this funds as effectively as possible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of this observation. In recent years, we have seen that public investments have been kept to a minimum. If we just start at an investment level, then the public investment has been to a historical minimum. Instead, it is under far more pressure than it was ten years ago. There's not 350,000 people driving the roads in Iceland. There are two million people walking the road in Iceland. Can we do it? A senator would not agree that since the collapse of the crash and that the need for public investment in these areas is a cumulative need for public investment, right up to the end of this government? We look for ways to increase our investment at the right time in relation to the development of problems in the economy. At the same time as a job investment is shrinking, it reduces, and then the government comes in with an increase in investment that, of course, does not all go into a permanent business, such as the winter. A senator indicates that he is also under attack on investments that are in part monotonous. We're in charge of the state. I can say with what. Senator. On the other hand, we should always be concerned about how we can manage our money better. I mentioned above examples of digital services, that only sending out government data or mail into electronic form has saved the country a billion dollars. Public service saves by using technology. In this way, it is likely possible to set priorities in other ways, providing funds for services that we feel are important to provide, while saving on the same occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u169	V.E.G. President. It is often claimed that the health system has been much better here in the past and is now starving. Transport has been put far more emphasis on transport than is now. But at that time government spending was much lower than it is today. Therefore, the question arises: Do the taxpayers get enough for the money? And at least at the height. A prime minister saves money by having the government send e - mails rather than letters, it is limited in the overall context. That's why I ask again, Is there no one who wants to save? Because it's an investment, like the highest. A minister mentioned, you would think that people would want to save somewhere else. A family that needs to expand their housing will likely reduce other consumptions in order to save for the investment rather than increase other expenses at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u170	Mr. President. Investment is one thing. Senator. We agree, though, that it is important to do better in these matters. Of course you're right. A senator that was not necessarily better here before, but this does not mean that investments have been kept to a historic minimum after a crash, under a historical average when we watch the percentage of gross domestic product investments. It's important that we get to the point. Then I'm going to say that I think that's why. A senator should not minimize the possibilities of developing increased digital services for government saving. I think this is one small example I mentioned here, about the e-mail that the state has now discovered and taken into its service, shows that it can save a lot of money. It is what is called a reassessment in the Icelandic language, i.e. that there's always a review. I think we can certainly do better in various areas in the matter of constantly wondering if any expenses are not right. [[The president calls.]] But there are things being done that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u171	Mr. President. A year ago, we were allowed to look at the first financial programme of the government, and we were speaking for more equations in the country, asking to consider that then the government, led by the left green, was immediately initiated. We now have another financial program in the same government, and when we do, we cannot ask even the officers to show left green consideration, for a large number of groups are still waiting for justice. So it is with a measure of reluctance that I come up to answer to the highest degree. The prime minister and chairman of the left movement ◯ Green offering, formerly counted among groups that spoke for greater equality, spoke the speech of the elderly and the desperate, talking to the improved women class. But the government's budget led by the left green shows a nation's nest in a straitjacket that will take a severe blow on the precise groups, especially those who need to serve a community, due to a decrease in the contribution of a country to a community. V.E.G. Prime Minister. I'm worried about the people of the country because of the highest. Secretary of finance has said that changes in economic growth are simply cutting expenses. I'm worried about people who just live at the poverty line. Berries are in the air, but it appears that colleagues are at the highest level. One minister cannot imagine having the more productive ones share more fully in the combination. That's why I'd like to ask, "Have the highest. " The prime minister is not concerned about these groups? Why is it necessary to take away those who have nothing instead of going where possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u172	Mr. President. Consider how we want to set priorities for the government's expenses. Let's see how arrangements have developed, e.g. On the income side. Who's been waiting? They're young people and children. What is the government doing? The government is raising child reforms to meet the low income loads of children's families. What is the government doing? The government is extending birthworm to improve the standard of young children's life, huge interests, and life savings for young children. If we examine the data and examine the facts, what is the most burdensome of the groups that have a low income burden? House expenses. The cost of living is what weigh heavily on income groups. They spend a very large proportion of their income in housing. What is the government doing? It is increasing the contribution of the social housing system and wants to be more supportive in cooperation with the labor movement and in cooperation with rural communities to build a social housing system so that people do not have to spend so much of their provisional resources in housing. You can see that the standard of living can be improved by government action, and that is what the government is doing. What is the government doing and suggest in return for their taxes? It's preventing the tax output, as mentioned earlier, by harmonizing the threshold in a step - apart system so that we are not watching those who are more paid than they are taking in a relative amount of tax reductions. That's what the government is doing. Hv. One senator asks: " What is being done to meet these groups? It's, for example. This. Then I have not gone into the money both spent in the budgets of the year and in a financial programme to reform the disability-employer, also a huge case that needs to be decided, what action to take to meet that group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u173	Mr. President. What is the government doing? Taxation has increased most frequently among the largest income - income groups and between groups. What's going to happen? The prime minister, who represents the legal justice of his Ministry, is doing so because of the women's groups' debates, the big women's classes, said in government financial program that will rise by 0.5% between the 2019 and 2020 years? If there's more to raise, you have to cut down, says the top. Secretary of finance. Where will the government cut down? There will be no class to approve of that. Not even the great women's classes, which have left these last few years to governments, including these, offer themselves many things, as you can see. in midwives, it will agree to get a 0.5% raise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u174	Mr. President. This is a 0.5% increase in prices and not a 0.5% increase, just to be clear in the discussion. And so I finish what I said earlier, it is also my earmarking special funds in this financial program to improve the welfare of micro-energy pensioners. Why do we do that? Why are we particularly concerned about the scourge of income? Why are we especially concerned about young children? Why are we particularly concerned about microenergy pensioners? Yes, because we're working on social reform. Hv. A senator comes here to refer to an old development in the tax system, which is actually stopped by the changes introduced at the end of the last year, such as the year. A senator hasn't noticed, like a dog. A senator did not realize when child damages were raised or the reference steps in the tax system were changed to prevent the tax. Then I must ask where. A senator was just when we finished those operations. Hv. A senator should admit it and rejoice when changes in the tax system that add to the equation are made if they think they are equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u175	President. I just want to pick up the thread from the previous time, when I tried this discussion to talk to the highest level. Prime Minister on the scope available for the government in order to contribute to the success of collective agreements. What I would like to know is the suggestions on the tax issues at the highest level. The secretary of finance and economics, the secretary of the tax: Is he in charge of it entirely himself? Since these are multiorganized powers, humans are responsible for their responsibility, and it seems that ministers have been relatively holy and have the utmost authority to say what is permitted in that area. In the Treaty, it is now shown that taxes should be put down on the lower tax steps, and there is a proposal regarding tax declines. This looks like this: here you are, you've got the earner, here you have the earner. There's nothing to be said about that personal discount. It comes up to a new tax level, and it's not until we're only inside the tax stage that the people need -- it's like a hockey bat that goes up and then it kind of goes straight out, right to the top of the income. It's like a hockey club, which means what's under the hockey bat is what's going to come back. It's about to come back when men get up from this tax level, it's paying off perfectly, the tax reduction, but not when they're inside, because they're not getting the full use of the tax level. That means it's not until you're past the tax level, that you get the full use of it, and it's making a lot of money. But those inside this tax level are not fully used, and those underneath it even - and then we're talking about microchip, perhaps, people who land between ships and docks, fall into holes in the system, they're not getting any of this. [[The president calls.]] Isn't this something that needs to be revised? Or is the secretary of the IRS just in charge of it himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u176	Mr. President. I think if the Secretary of the IRS had it on his own, we'd probably not be talking about the multi-stage tax system. If I knew the right and the left politics in any way, I would have thought those tax proposals might have looked a little different. If I may be allowed to falsulators, so I'll sit here in the chair, I think exactly that these tax laws show exactly that they are an intermediate, cross-cutting method, as I would like to count, a highly advanced norset method. I was only able to resist the fact that there's been a high-level taxation margin here in the norse comparison and high levels of baseprosentan in the lowest phase. And the steps have been made, if we take these in a norse comparison. So, what are we doing? We're going down to the low-aching level, lowering the percentage to the bottom level of the negative model of increasing the steps up to three to increase the built-in equation in the system, and ensuring that the thresholds will all develop according to the same formula, to ensure, as already have been, before we changed it through the past few years, where the lower steps will be based on the consumption calibrator number and the higher levels are based on the paycount. It created the IRS that the National Association of Iceland has designed to produce in its reports and some reports. Congress officials seem to think that they are still on the side, since they did not notice the change made about the last year. I'm just going back to remind you that by the end of the New Year, this reference step was moved to match the consumption calculus. New suggestions then suggest that we improve production at that threshold. We can say that we are making progress in the tax system as a result of growth in the economy, which is, of course, a matter of economic control. Hv. A senator is most concerned about the lowest paid groups, as I understand them, that they do not enjoy the fruits of tax change. I'll just get in on it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u177	Mr. President. Just so I won't forget or run out of time with it, I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is not sure that the Constitution, which has been scheduled as prime minister and is in the government covenant, is not truly a treasure. It's good to hear that there's pressure and you're making a deal with the board about these things, and maybe the changes are, what to say, a progressist but the highest. The secretary of the IRS Bjarni Benediktsson would have wanted. I need to examine these criteria as the highest. The prime minister mentioned what that means. But it seems to me that those under there, those who have the personal discount, they don't fulfill it, and they don't even fall into this tax leg, they don't get a lower tax step, they don't get any of the things that come together from the cost of the state. [[The president calls.]] But the highest. The prime minister will review it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u178	Mr. President. The proposals are particularly thought to be the largest reduction in low income groups and lower intermediate groups. Then we're talking about people in a job market. We're not talking about people who work full-time, but I'd say this would be very helpful for large groups of people, such as. are employees of social security because of that. A senator mentions them as groups. This is the purpose of the change. I was here giving the tax conferences opinions, but I was just quoting traditional Chinese Left and Right, just in case it's being held in place. But only on the Constitution work. Yes, it is among those things. paritaprevir The question was asked by Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. There are funds in the large funds of the Ministry of Presidency to promote policy issues. Among the other things involved is a public body around a constitution at a cost, i.e. A reasoning poll that has already existed in the original schedule or schedule of the Constitution work, so it is assumed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u179	Madam President. We've been discussing here just how practical this financial program of the government is. I'm not going to go further into those psalms on economic grounds, though there is a clearly sensitive point for the government. What I'm interested in is the winners of the plan. It says that the first three years of the programme will be replaced by 0.5% of the remunerations for later use by 20233/42024. This number is considerably lower than the Haust Lab, which is referred to in terms of the strategy, assumes in general labour market changes at the same time. Interestingly, this is how the government is going to go to public employees for the economy. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister in this regard. I really think the message is in an ongoing dress interview with government employees being very clear. If government employees are going to seek similar pay and are currently in the general labour market, they will be required simply by government resignations. It is likely that this is the only economy that government agencies can generally employ if they do not receive such pay increases in financial contributions. Is this a fair meal, chief? Prime Minister? Is this really the government's message to public employees? And perhaps in that context, is this also a message from the government to older citizens and disability pensioners? It seems to me that the margin of improvement should be the same as the same criteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u180	Mr. President. Hv. Today, members of Parliament have talked about this and interpreted this ground as speaking directly of the results of collective agreements. But, of course, the agreements with government employees are going to be made, and we will, of course, be dealing with collective agreements. What is really up in this financial proposal is that it is not normal to look for a pay ratio in the state to actually grow into the future without any comments being made. We have been doing certain things. If we look e.g. to make pay from 24% of total income to 26% there are 20 billion at final costs. Of course, it is possible to look to that, as it were. A senator has also called for the discussion, how we can save on government business. I've given one example of a digital service. I can also talk about reassessments in general. I know from experience that it is better to try to work regularly to reevaluate public expenses. That's not because I want to impair public service. Like what? A senator knows very well, and I really care about her. But that's not why I'm saying that every assignment from the government is entitled to itself forever. I think that by offering relatively modest reasons in these matters, we are also proclaiming that we are going to be serious, since a reassessment of expenses will be a regular part of our plans. This should not necessarily be a response to a crisis. Rather, it should be a normal part of how we deal with public finances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u181	Mr. President. I can't say the answer was clear, but I can't interpret it any other than that my aim is very simple and clear. Remuneration will only be 0.5% in excess of the price. Any increase in pay will be negotiated in other respects if agencies are to seek economic management, expected, including reports from government officials. What I may be more concerned about is that problem that has been very current in the Icelandic labour market, we can say, i.e. gender-specific differences in pay which focus specifically on the status of the female class. That has even been true. were discussed by this government on the need to deal with this problem by large groups of women, teachers, nurses, and various groups of care professionals. I can't see that in this capacity the government has set out, 0.5% of raises in general in excess of prices, it's any way of dealing with this problem during the next five years of financial planning. At least I'll have an ad by the highest. Prime Minister of Equal Opportunities: How will the government handle the position of women class members with this narrowly tailored sting?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u182	Mr. President. I would have thought so. A senator would rejoice that I wanted to implement, in increasing numbers, the reevaluation of public expenses. I think that's what we're talking about. All panel members should be able to agree on this. It is not vague or hairy. It is just what we are going to do now, that we have just begun a journey through the laws on public finances, how we can handle this reevaluation. For the women's classes then, last agreements were signed under the Women's Class Book and Classes, of course, in BHM that there would be a particular need for a consideration of their circumstances and ideals. That work has been at the top. Secretary of health, the highest. Secretary of finance and prime minister. Mainly, the work of science has passed by at the highest level. A health minister who has been considering the working conditions of women's health systems, which was given special emphasis in this publication. I expect that work will, of course, return to those women's classes at the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u183	A respectable president. During the discussion today, the highest. Secretary of finance that in order to increase income and achieve poverty and older citizens, they would need to increase their value, increase their profits. I ask myself, " How much profit is there and how much more valuable things are needed? ' You've never heard of this when you're increasing the highest paid, senators, ministers, bank managers, about the tens of these increases. You have never heard that this is impossible because there is a need for greater wealth or better economic growth. There's another thing that's a bit strange in this, that this same group got corrected far back in time, months if not a year, and there's all been corrections. But there is nowhere in this financial program to correct the only remaining, elderly, and desperate ones. They are not to be corrected. There's a minimum of 201⁄230% missing, for older citizens and disability, and there's not a staff that's supposed to get them back all the way everyone else has got it. I don't think that this one worst class has been completely abandoned, and the only explanation is that we haven't had enough interest and that we haven't raised enough valuables. Yet, it is said that in no case economic growth was as great. I'd like to ask a minister if she agrees. What do valuable things have to be great and how much economic growth needs to be in order to correct the interests of older citizens and disability, and not just correct them for the 203/430% in which they are owed but also backward?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u184	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I'd like to say that I don't agree with the approach that older citizens and disability pensioners are one group. Why don't I agree with that approach? If we examine the data on the development of these groups, we will see the history of income that I have quoted today, on average the provision of older citizens has increased far beyond the provision of microchip when we consider to make the last 10 years. On average, the interest rate of older citizens has improved far more than the ideal rate for microsurgents. The position of that group is also much better. That's why I've said, "It's important when we talk about older people's affairs that we look especially to the populations within the great and varied population of the worst." This was done by the Minister of Social Affairs, setting down a special group to see which number of older citizens were the worst. This group of Witnesses recently returned proposals that show that they are groups who do not have full rights in the social security system at home. I think that's a priority when it comes to older people. Of course, working on it can continue. I also want to remind you of what we are. A senator has previously discussed that the older citizens'forwarding system was changed by the change of 2016, resulting in a significant increase in expenses for that group. However, when it comes to microenergy pensioners, the government is contributing funds to the change in the progress of disability - saving workers, and it needs to be done better. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. I mentioned in my talk earlier that it also matter how much money is spent. V.E.G. Secretary of Social Affairs has said that he finds it very important to wind down the crime I know to do. A senator has also discussed quite a few things. It's also important to look into other aspects of that system, and I'm only getting to the point in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u185	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. Yes, it is, but there is a certain group of older citizens on the poverty line and a great deal of disability. There's another thing in this thing that's a little strange and that's never been mentioned in the discussion, i.e. that those with capital taxes only pay no answer. Why not let them pay an answer and use money to reduce their response to microorganisms and the rest of them? It has always been said that it is not possible to do so because most of it is an expansive response to cities that are desperate, and then they also need to take from those more than a million a month; they don't need personal discounts. We need to realize that we were able to do this in 1988. The poor paid no taxes, and they remained in a pension fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u186	Mr. President. Yes, thank you. A senator again. So I come back to the micro-energy transplanter business, I think it's very important that we look at them collectively. I know why. A senator has been a member of a group where no final solidarity has yet been achieved. But I think it's very important for that group to come back. There are a number of factors under which we discuss the benefits of microenergy donors and I think that if we consider the government's tax proposals, they will, of course, provide a lower tax burden for this group. These suggestions match the groups in low - income limits. Increased emphasis on social housing is also important for microenergy donors, but then we want to see what we want when it comes to the damage, as it were. A senator has discussed, and is very high on the priority of the representatives who speak for the disability - welfare workers, that they will be surprised. It is also important to look at advancements in general and then to see how we can pay for those who can do some of the work, how we can pay their means, for example. on the part of the government, creating more work to meet those groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u187	The government is now providing a financial program that shows attendance at most media sectors while being cautious and responsible for financial management. The total cost of the State for the next five years is less than 5,000 billion. After much recession during the years that followed, there was a great need to improve Kingdom service in various areas, as well as to increase the need for support and investment. Already the economy is slowed down and there is uncertainty over certain matters, it is important that expenses be careful and specific. Total government spending is now less than previous, or less than 6% from the current programme. In view of uncertainty, a contribution is now greatly added to a general reserve that increases by 47 billion dollars. from the current programme, of which the duration of the strategy is about 110 billion. Transport and rural management is responsible for the provision of 345 billion dollars. during this period, about 7% of the total cost. These are transport and communication, rural and urban and part of economic and core records. In these areas, there is a great deal of interest, but there are also weaknesses. The government was formed to build on the inside. Our main access to transport is to help reduce the number of accidents, so the road system is most effective, which is seen in many cases following increased traffic. There's a maximum of 20 billion increase in construction on the road system. Is that in addition to 16.5 billion increases from the current schedule and less than 4 billion. An extension set aside from a general reserve last year for maintenance, or a total of over 40 billion during this period. Large attendance is now ahead, but during the financial program, there will be over 120 billion dollars. conducted on the road system. So the road users will soon experience more safety in traffic. The construction of the road system will be financed by the state's funds. However, the assessment of transport funding is still being carried out in line with the order of the General Assembly, which was established in an approved transport program in the past winter. I intend to submit a revised five-year transport strategy during the coming fall and to expect nothing other than the benefits of the council on that subject. There is then a co-operation between government and rural society in the capital area on transport in the capital area. In other words, a wide variety of travel practices will be carried out on transport in these areas, in coastal areas, in city lines, and on bicycle tracks. A more integrated public transport policy is being developed to maximise capital use and achieve increased and improved services. Most important, I would like to mention a reorganization of the international airport operations and their construction with the goal of making them more useful as backup airports. Aircraft drivers have called for increased efficiency, but the aim is that Istavia take over the management and maintenance of all the international airports since January 1. The urban region is still moving ahead, and 250 million is expected. K. If there is an additional pan-European and regional strategy for this period. Thus, more than 10 billion will be provided for based on the timelines for financial programmes. Last year, there is a targeted work on the implementation of a strategy adopted by the Parliament, but there is a very small number of projects involved in the development of a new organisation to support innovation in the country. As a financial minister in his history earlier today, it is a precaution to keep donations to the branch society unchanged from the current budgets of 2020 and 2021. Communicates from the Union are currently in progress, and we have time to do so before we have the council planned. The first government policy strategy on the affairs of rural society is being developed. The guide to that work is the self-management of rural society and responsibility to its inhabitants, the unititarian level as the cornerstone of democracy and human rights and sustainableness, and that the overall interest of the entirety of the government level and the country are ahead. This allows a significant increase in the support of equal funds between partners during the financial period. I see that my time is going pretty fast, so I'm going to maybe come in on the telecommunications and national records later tonight, but I'm going to finish this with the success of the project, Iceland light-related, and will finish in 2021. The task is according to plan and has resulted in a rapid increase in local fiber optics. The year 2021 will be completed with the support of over 5,500 places, some 1,500 more locations than originally, as an example of the effectiveness of the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u188	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of the transport for him is going into this discussion. There are two things I want to come on. First of all, a planned budget for the year 2024, we can say, is much easier during the first period of the long - term program set forward in the fall. I was quite worried about this when it was suggested that the transport program is again heavy in terms of financing. We now see the first year of the long - term program showing, and we figure that there is a considerable lack of the objective that 1.5% of GDP will be reused on the road system. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of how he envisions this development, and in the context of the financing work he introduced to be in progress at the Ministry on the matter of the council's stand, when the five - year transport program I call was adopted in February. I'd like that up front. At the same time, I want to ask for the highest order. A minister briefly introduces the development of the city line project and provides financial resources for it. Does he believe that they are likely to be to some degree, different from the fact that the more part of the environment and transport committees proposed will actually develop?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u189	A respectable president. The finance of transport is just ahead of us. At the top of this 5.5 billion that we have under the budget since last year, 2019, 2020, and 2021, we are adding 4 billion to this year for the next five years, i.e. Next year, the question to a financial plan is what we might add to it. And in the same way, when major projects are completed, to form around the Land Hospital, when buying helicopters, and other major projects that we've been on, there's also no rule that can be possible, as I talked about in the past, to set aside long - term priorities, and thus to reach this 1.5% of those who were headed for transport during the second and third seasons, as the senator entered. I can still see that this is how we can develop. We're making up a considerable amount of money from the state fund right now. And as I said in my introduction, this does not rule out the discussion that we took a little in connection with the transport plan, which is related to how we are going to finance the transport system for the future. However, we are now starting these projects with financial resources from the treasury. With regard to the city line and the funding there we are, as I came in, to start a conversation as we have discussed with the local Union in the capital area, but we agree on this large package, which may be conducted at 100 billion, with all the stockways in the capital area and the urban line up to the next 15 years, a very exciting task that we're going to develop in cooperation with rural society in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u190	Mr. President. In another context, I put it a few years ago that the only thing that made the Icesave 2 covenant was a fair comparison with Icesave 1. That's all there would be. It came to my mind now, for it certainly is 4 billion a year for new projects, but the core point is so low. For so long, humans have been getting out of a very low standard in their new development. I think we have to look for all ways to get ahead more quickly than this. It seems to me that in the years 2022, 2023, and 2024, construction capacity goes down to 5.5 billion each year from 2020 to 2021 a year, and that, of course, is an acceptable position. I'd like to get the top of it. Transporter taking the fight in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u191	A respectable president. I thank you for the urgency, and I know I own supporters of this council hall for setting more priorities for transportation. That's right. That's right. That's right. A senator to the base, i.e. what we've been doing for too many years has been too small. But to say that 5.5 billion plus 4 a year is not an additional substantial injection - I would say that you're talking down good things. There is clearly considerable injection in the years to come. And as I described in my previous answer, it is not excluded that the next financial programme, whether it will be next year or next year, when people realize that there is a decrease in the number of projects that may be the main concern and that we have put most of the financial priorities in, i.e. the health system, the better access to transport projects, and I think they're necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u192	Mr. President. When reading financial programs, you can look at the beautiful words on a dating plan to 15 years of age on the issues of rural society. People's self-sustaining, improved interest, reduced debt and unity. That sounds great. But what will the government do when it comes to making a contribution to a community, with a three - day discussion on the government budget, which may be changed in view of the highest talk. Company Minister here a minute ago? Yes, the government starts by freezing the government's contribution to an equation fund and has calculated the loss of income by 3.2 billion dollars. in the first two years. In context of this sum, the budget of 2019 gives the state's contributions for the business of disabled people at the country level of about 1.8 billion, and under budgets it is expected that the budget of the state's budget of the host's fees alone will be 1,3 billion. During the two years, it is 3.2 billion. Mr. President. It seems this is the way the government seems to start working on a more sustainable business in order to improve their involvement with what the government calls a real cost to the local community. The European Union has, of course, proved to be a strong criticism of this government plan, and this leads to only limited service to the population, services to the disabled, services to children, young people, older citizens - yes, most vulnerable. And in which areas of life is this most intense? Yes, Mr. President, on the West and the Northern West. It's these areas that lose most prominently. Again, the worst is lost. Mr. President. There's more to it than making parish plans. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he think this plan is practical? Is there something in the sense of this financial program, or is it really not a plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u193	A respectable president. Yes, there is a lot to do with this financial plan. This, however, is a five - year financial program, and we live in an economy that is both swinging and may be sensitive to individual external factors. When the financial program was being worked, there was hope for a person to find fur. They didn't find her. There is a loss in the population of one of the 20 ◯25 billion. In some communities, the shock is quite significant. We're still flying uncertainty times as far as traveling and flying. There are no contracts available. All of this is referred to as uncertainty regarding financial issues and other factors. That's why we've put more money away in a reserve, so that we can deal with it. So I witness to the discussion with the minister of finance today, so we are giving 28 billion to the rest and in the reserve for the next year is actually 13 billion more, about 3 more than the law is. So we are truly prepared for this. Of course, if the economy goes down, the communities will suffer as well. Over the years, the wealth of congregations has grown considerably. This freeze is 1,185 million a year, and it accumulates into two years and then no more. As I said, however, we are starting a conversation with our rural communities about possible other routes or other occurrences or how these factors can be made up of more satisfaction. There is a possibility that if there is some such route, as mentioned in this financial program, there will be a legal adjustment, so that everything will be adjusted. A senator came along to say that there would be a special cut on the West, or northwest, or the language of the disabled is nonsense. [[The president calls.]] We'll go over it and don't take it out with the present rule on sensitive language groups. There is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u194	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister very much for the counter-sponsored. I'm a little confused by his words because of the highest. The prime minister said: "We can't be wondering what happens if, perhaps, we have to look at the situation as it is now, and we have to look at it from the forecasts of financial planning. But when I ask the highest. Secretary of the situation there, we have to look at what might happen if anything happens. As a result, today's discussion will be very vague. It is surprising, then, that rural communities, which serve all the population and care for all basic services, base their plans on donations from the State. It is difficult for both societies and government agencies and others to build on a financial program that is somehow hardly - three days old and all up in the air. [[The president calls.]] You wonder: " Is this responsible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u195	A respectable president. The answer to the last question, if it was a question, is: Yes, it's a responsible financial plan. She's certainly five years old, and she's dependent on some uncertainty factors. One of them is communication with the rural communities, which are the other administrative level, equal to the state. As a result, we need to have honest discussions with them as an equal in their affairs and money. Hv. A senator asked: "What might happen? " It is good for the five - year financial program to deal with many of these. We have such a powerful economy. In recent years, we have arranged so well for the knots that we are in a position to cope with such uncertainty. Things go on worse. That's what we're going to do, and that's why I'm saying: It's not going to happen with the current legal frame that these items will be cut down as slow as possible. The senator was talking about, if so, but in another way he will be dealt with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u196	Mr. President. The financial programme presented ideas agreed on in the early February issue of transport, with the development of the air system in the country that has been in a laminar charge of financing, especially since 2011, where all of us actually attach to the funding of the system collapsed. See the picture on page 22. The next 15 years in which tourists arrive in the country, 259 in a financial program expected a huge increase in tourism. It is also said in the excellent way that flying - related branches are expected to increase dramatically in the years to come. It is noted that to finance the three international airports, outside Cheflavík, i.e. Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Egeils, used 7 to keep up with billions of dollars to finance what needs to be done there to ensure safety in the country. It has been proclaimed, and it is adopted in a transport program of ideas on how to build up the flying system and how the system is united, these four international airports, together as a whole. So I would like to ask if this work has started and the ideas that were adopted in a transport program and then are being proclaimed in the financial program, or if the work is about to start, as time is passing quickly. It is now nine months to the next year, which is being announced in a transport program and then again in a national budget for the ideas of bringing together all four international airports into one system. I want to start with this, and then we'll take some more in a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u197	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an unexpected question. I know that we and the senator agree on that, and zealous amateurs to build up the reserve airports in good shape. That number's as good as dead. In fact, the number that Istavia has also been to calculate is mentioned by a member of the body of over 70,8 billion. Recently, I noticed that the director of Istavia observed that it might be about a billion a year for seven years to get it right. We have about 300 million, at least, to that end. So maybe it's 700 million missing. In a report of a group as well as any of them. A senator made it clear that there are ways to finance this by moving the projects to Istavia, where knowledge and experience are available and that it is good to place responsibility in one place. We've been talking to Istavia about how this can become reality, whether there's an additional fee, called a backup airport fee, or whether Istavia could envision other ways of cooperating with flight drivers. It is not surprising, therefore, that these uncertainty times in the flight have had some impact on this. They may also mean that there is uncertainty about the speed at Keflavík, but we do not want this action to interfere with the structure necessary there. So the answer is: Yes, we've got a job setting up this with Istavia. And I agree with you, too. A senator says that time passes quickly and the sooner it has the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u198	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of these answers. The other point being announced in a recent report was the so - called Scottish route. It is also said that by 2020 it will take effect. A protocol program was adopted by 48 members of the Parliament and was given a very good support here at the Assembly Hall. So I'd like to ask about that, the Scottish way. When the next few months are nine months into the year, does the minister see work ensuing it? Then perhaps right at the end, since this is a very short time, I want to ask about the Internet security issues that I consider to be the only major threat to our society and the Western world, how they have been placed in the next few years of the budget and financial resources to them. We're in a very good place about telecommunications and fiber optics, what has been known, what has been built up in recent years, but the Internet security issues are, I think, to become one of the most major issues in Western society, and might be interesting to get a glimpse of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u199	A respectable president. Regarding the Scottish route, it is not only the moment we were discussing the backup airport under the Isavia's hat that these are no longer any ideas but that this is a resolution of Congress from the Council, with an increased proportion behind the Scottish route. We have some money. We haven't been looking for any more capital. We want to jump up the methodology we've used to support the international flight, for this has not proved to be a good way. That's why we want to do something called a Scottish way, as is said in this fine report. A senator's work on the change of the flight, preparing the flight so that it can take effect at some point in 2020. I want to thank you. A senator for asking about the Internet security issue, which I still don't have seconds to answer. But that is exactly one of the financial weaknesses, that we do not have the bill set before the council. [[The president calls.]] In the near future, it will be our responsibility to seek out ways that will not diminish our ability to build up the security needed for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u200	A respectable president. I remind you that we are here talking about a five-year plan, a financial program that is government policy until next year. In this context, I would like to ask: What is government policy on charges? At the end of the last year and at the beginning of this year, the Parliament was pulled through a road talk that was going to be a bill for the council in March to be completed. But there's nothing to worry about. This financial program does not say what is on the page. 14 says, with president's permission: The user fees can be adopted for the use of new infrastructures. Perhaps it is a means of transportation. I can't possibly tell if this is a policy issue or not. Here we are a five - year financial program that puts government policy ahead. I want a clear answer. The council is once dragged through this pass case, but as shown in the Sermon on the Mount. A minister earlier was not referring to the financing of transport to the future. At that time, the funding of certain projects was specifically referred to. It was noted in the case of a minister earlier that the matter discussed during the New Year's Day had not been a matter of future financing, that was not the case. There was a very big misunderstanding with just the sources, just to be completely clear. It was about financing on individual projects, as the text on page 18. 14 seems to indicate, too. To put that in as clearly as possible: Is the government's policy to take up a road covering specific transport projects? Will a program of transportation be adopted in the fall, as foretold in the road talk? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u201	A respectable president. I just have to admit, I don't quite understand why. A senator, that he does not feel that the discussion is clear or that taking up a conversation at the council is unnecessary. I hope there will be many such discussions. As far as I know, Piratars, who are in more part in the city of Reykjavík, are and have been discussing it with the State for a long time to pick up the so-called city pollution and city fees to pay. To prepare for the construction of the road system. But I have to say, just as it is, I'm a little surprised by the senator's position on this. It's very clear to me. In this five - year financial program regarding transportation, we put out funds from the state's funds to build up. But as noted in my case at the end of that period, a new and revised plan will be submitted in the fall to the next five years, and it will not be excluded, but at the end of that period, they will record some kind of user expenditure to finance the next transport cycle. There's nothing impossible. That's what they're saying. It is also quite obvious that if we act on the Sunway, which is indeed the policy of the Minister of the office and the Government, and possibly other cooperation projects in the spirit of Hölfjörður, and in individual projects, it will, of course, be carried out there and the fees will be paid, although this may not be necessary in the next five years. That is why it is mentioned in the financial program. But these numbers are not shown in these numbers because they're in the middle of a year for decision-making and then implementation. But then it would likely be paid back in exactly the same way as the Cradle Vow when it does. There's a lot under there. Senator. But I'm a little surprised at the discussion of remuneration for road work, which is why. A senator comes from a group that sits on top of the mayor's section.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u202	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister can be as surprised as he wants to be. I was asking about government policy, those sitting on the cabinets right behind me. That answer just didn't come out at all. Let's just change the gear because there's more to talk about, i.e. The freezer of the equation budget for the first two years of the financial program. People are worried they'll come down on, for example. MPA agreements and the number of NAPA agreements that rural society will be able to finance, because the State is coming to their funding and including through the equation fund. It is impossible to see in this freezing process how these declines generally spread on the funds funded by the equation. It would be nice to get a minister's statement on how this will affect, for example. The NPA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u203	A respectable president. If only for a rate, if I hadn't been clear enough. Governments, the State, agree to have a conversation with rural areas in the capital area, including ... aboutcharging. We are also wondering about co-works such as those of the Whale Vault, which ended with some kind of payback, so that it is perfectly clear, With the equation fund, it's a five-year plan. It's not a budget. It has been observed that if this route has gone in some way, not necessarily in that exact way and is written in a financial programme, since we will have a considerable conversation with the rural communities about the process or route and if there is any other means to do so, the adjustment needs to be adjusted. Of course, in this change of law, it will be accepted that it will not be affected by the delicate ways I discussed earlier. Of course, certain areas of small numbers will not be affected particularly, and these are the most needed support or NPA contracts or such. [[The president calls.]] It is obvious that if that happens, the change in law will deal with it. It's a plan, not a budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u204	Mr. President. For the next five years, we'll talk about transport in a financial program. When we do so, we can hardly discuss our greatest project for the next five years and much more years that follow, which is evading the seriousness of climate warming. We have a long - awaited climate action plan, which is an important step in fighting the catastrophe we face. But much more is involved, and I am among those who would have liked to see the more bold and forward paces of transportation when it comes to our more serious responsibilities on climate change. One of the most effective tools to cope with climate change is to change radically the way people travel. Transporter has proclaimed large transport campaigns, and certainly important funds are added to the maintenance needs of the road system. There is an important and practical contribution to the budget for the next five years. But I'd like to get past the highest level. The secretary of transportation whether he shares that vision with me, and hopefully more, to further the need for public transportation far beyond the financial agenda and that the emphasis needs to be clearer when it comes to the growth of public transport in the capital area of which 759.5% of all traffic in the country is. I'd also like to ask, in view of the fact that there is a will declaration to cooperate with the rural areas on the city line if we need to get a little bit ahead of our hands when it comes to it and try to put more weight and speed into it. Of course, it's always about money, but does a secretary of transportation place more weight on this part of the budget than has been wanted to be seen? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u205	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator has a long - awaited climate action plan and a good way to work on it. It is the very focus of the government to continue to spit in their hands. It is true that transport is very large in this context, especially in the Paris complex, but perhaps not in the overall context of pollution. But there is something we can do about transportation. There are two important factors. On one hand, it's public transportation, and that's why we've been working on a well - kept public transportation system throughout the country that is now being continued after report and preparation. Then it is changing a declaration of will in our dealings with the rural areas in the capital area to negotiate how we envision all of that structure. I am confident that both in the coming 15 years and at the speed and in the way of making money for it can be achieved. As has been noted several times in my case, it was originally at the request of the city's authorities, the nature of a court case, taking charge to drive traffic. This is essential for getting people to make more use of public transportation, then that way would be gone. The other factor we can do in transport and are equally important is energy change. With all our renewable energy, we have a unique chance. We spend 25 to 30 billion billion dollars on buying oil from the Norwegians or Saudi Arabia, who have nothing to do with the money. We could use them in our own resources, from electricity or hydrogen or water, or something like that, and gain a faster pace in energy exchange of cars, which is a huge advantage for car owners, both economic and even more because climates are going to be much better in the capital area than they are today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u206	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A secretary of transportation shares in my view that climate is of this magnitude and that transport is an enormously large part of it. It's like the highest. A minister spoke of a declaration of agreement with local societies in the capital area over the city line. I would have personally wanted to see much more money put into it to speed up the declaration of will so that it would become tangible and serious operations. I encourage and sharpen the highest. A minister of transportation to do good things when it is time to do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] When it comes to transport, you can learn that this is not just an enormously important climate but also a class matter. On page 18. For example, 262 in the budget, the sex policy is adopted and the sightings of transport are eyeglasses, and this is a cypress, but this is also a class case. We need to look at things based on the fact that this is a real option for people regardless of income or social situation. [[The president calls.]] Of course, when it comes to maintaining our goals and commitment in the Paris congregation, we have an enormously important tool that we have to take to heart in climate matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u207	A respectable president. That's right. We can do better than that. And we all have tools to do that. However, we cannot go on any faster than their preparation tells us to. Therefore, we are in an agreed transport programme with funds for building up, preparing, here in the capital area, which is in accordance with what all the most skilled experts involved in this case, whether at the Vega Building or the Association of Company in the capital area, agree on, i.e. 300 million this year and 500 million next year. As a result, we could start the construction period. Of course, we may want to do this even more quickly, but there are simply certain limits to what we can do for the human race. We also need to be in operation throughout the country to improve traffic security, but we also need to meet the need for a better road out of climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u208	President. I would like to start by celebrating an injection on the basis of this financial agenda and allow a part of the discussion here on the basis of that increase. That's what makes others talk about it. I'm going on my first round to direct my sights on possible roads, the media. I pondered the increase in this financial program, which reads up to over 17 billion. They're talking about this for investment, and now I refer to a table in the opinion of the greater part of the transport process from earlier this year on road projects that could be financed by reimbursement, which is one of 57 billion. There was no disagreement in itself that this was all very important. The question is, Do you see a minister who sees these 17 billion come to the deduction and then stands up for 40 billion, which will then be financed by roads, perhaps, or whatever, according to the prospective prime minister? Or the number of 17 billion has not been determined, what new projects? That's the first question in the first round. On a link, it is the capital package. First, I'd like to get it right with a minister, for I'm only unsure what it means that it consists of a city line, a bicycle path, and then construction on the foundation of the capital area. Is that not a means to and from the capital area? Is it a start - up within the capital area? I'd like to get that perfectly clear. Finally, I pondered this phrase in the plan: In view of this, a development organization on the state's specific property is developing, which would come to the finance of the capital package. [[The president calls.]] It is likely to be talking about the sale of state property. The government's decision has been made on which property it is? And if it is, it would be the best. A minister to share that information with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u209	A respectable president. As mentioned in my case, we are in this financial period with about 120 billion for transportation. It is true that there are probably over 17 billion who are going directly to action and then 10 who are maintaining, as per previous decisions, so this is probably about 27 billion next year and the next year. And then it goes down only because 5.5 billion fall out. This, of course, is to finance all projects according to a transport plan. But as I have declared, a five - year - long transport program will come in the fall where we will have reassigned this, and we will also hope that we will have made knots and have agreed on a deal between the state and the local community in the capital area on the building of transportation in the capital area, as well as the city lineworks and the land races and other aspects. It is not that certain funds are marked with earmarks for the projects in the area; it is to finance roads throughout the country, including the capital area. Of course, we need to visualize the overall picture, which is on the other hand, that we have emphasized the urgency of transport projects on these dangerous routes in and out of the capital area, Western roads, Southland roads, and Rhines, and at the same time, to take up these extensive projects in the capital area, while continuing to complete the base network, handling single bridges around the country. It is not as if the projects were missing. But that is - and I agree and thank you. A senator for that - a fine injection to come, which will certainly help us get started in the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u210	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I would like to reiterate my question about this developing society, which is designed to set up specific assets, if a minister can do more than that. I don't believe there's any more information, it seems like it's getting there. Then I'd like to use the remaining minutes to look at national records. V.E.G. A minister entered it just before that he was going to talk about it and then didn't have time. I would like to ask him to take the time to do so. It's the highest. Ministers are satisfied with how this financial program has been under way if you remember that there are a lot of projects ahead of you? He has done things for himself, but I also refer to issues that may not be directly heard but that are in many ways a liberal person. There's a bill on sexual autonomy, like a bill about a change of place, or hopefully a double law home, a possible bill on names, and so on. [[The president calls.]] Many of these cases have simply been answered in a way that the computer says no. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is national records now prepared to answer yes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u211	A respectable president. Thanks, too. A senator for asking about this. This is one of the things I didn't do properly. The answer is: No. So we don't have it financed. So that the project we have can be carried out on the couch - and a number of bills mentioned why. A senator - needs to update our system for a national file. That's what it takes. In recent years, a national record has received temporary sums that have fallen and are not available to make up for a year. For these projects to be realized as soon as possible after being properly treated at the council, it is one of the projects we need to perform. A brief discussion of a developing society or, as listed, other assets we are considering is in progress and will no doubt be discussed at the council in due time. [[The president calls.]] I can't go deeper into it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u212	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for being with us tonight and for his excellent advance. This is an ambitious strategy for building our holes system, it is safe to say so. More than 40 billion bucks. which we are going to use to build up transportation systems, and there is no shortage of transportation, it has truly been low for years, and so it is as bad as it really is. There's one thing that's caused me a little bit more conflicting when I think of earlier statements and stragglers in the direction that taxation will be laid on the road taxes. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether the thought had gone any further, whether it had been taken into account, as I heard it here, two days after I arrived in that chair and spoke of the future payment that was declared that we would be expecting to have a Contribution of about 110 billion in the year 2020,226. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he thinks it, how he can see it, whether it's been pushed out of the table by potential highways or whether they're still on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u213	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, we do not have just 40 billion that we have for this in the years to come. The 40 billion supplementes that the government has been adding to, i.e. both in a budget budget last year, 16.5 billion, and then this 4 from reserves, and then another 20 billion now that are exactly taken from a kind of fund because of land-reaching income. and the income that the Kingdom will take from its possessions. We're really taking that money from the government budget. As a result, the cost of non-final projects has not been met, i.e. in this hurrying program that has been discussed. Thus, we have not only 40 billion, but we have about 120 billion in these five years, of which, in the following years, about 27 per year, that is considerable financial resources, and that, hopefully, we will be able to do a lot of things with it, even though we use about 10 billion a year of this money in maintenance. Simply put, the answer is that we decided to prioritize more money for the building up of government funds. Whether or not there will be a future expenditure for any of those projects to support the next cycle is another debate we do not need to take today. We need to prepare it better, perhaps take a better discussion at the council, as I've been in a number of times before, so people realize that we will not build all the transport benefits we have to do on the air alone. They cost money, so the question is, Where does the money come from? [[The president calls.]] If the usual exchanges of fuel and oil tax, diesel tax, we don't have much money to build up on the road system in the future. [[The president calls.]] But that's not a problem today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u214	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, I've come to realize that it was a further advance. Yes, I know that taking a loan even to finance the speedy efforts we have to take on was available. And, yes, it is also known that the thought was not to be put on these tax taxes until it was due. So I ask again if road taxes are still in the picture despite, as I told you earlier, that we have an estimated 110 billion dollars. in interest payments from land induction I add a little bit to the question, "Do you think it's the highest? " A minister may naturally place money in a national fund but take advantage of it while we need it in the construction of our interiors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u215	Mr. President. So I answer to the senator, we're making use of the money, just from land induction, to two very important projects that we talked about in the government contract. On the one hand, there is effort in the development of nursing homes, where we will spend a lot of money in the coming years and in order to create a fund or an arrangement that is a kind of bridge in the innovation sector, i.e. ... israisinginnewsin Iceland. We have talked about this for two generations, one for the younger generation, to build up the future income, but also for the better - looking setting up in nursing homes. That is exactly what we are using to pay from land induction. So the answer is yes, we're using it for that. But in the next five years, we are also spending that money building up the road system. So we are truly making use of this financial program for all the resources that are possible for building infrastructure in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u216	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I just want to get to the transport. We wait, of course, for the road system to be in better condition when this plan is completed as we discuss here. That's exactly what I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the Smokey Way and the Southland Road and the Westland Road. It is a means of transportation, with an urgent need to implement such projects as we know and have been discussed in a transport committee. Now it's time to celebrate the addition of 4 billion annually, but I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. A minister to whether at the end of this period of time, those who drive this vital road will see evidence of improvement. For example, after four years, will the Rhine Way be doubled? It would be good to get past the minister's status in this regard. I also want to ask the highest. Secretary to General. Now it is reported that there is delay in the delivery of the ship. There is no indication in this financial program that the amount required should be paid for an additional $1 billion. I wanted to hear from a minister with the office on that assignment and an old General. Does he come to be fired at the same time as this new ferry? If so, is it not true that it is mentioned in this program how to finance it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u217	A respectable president. Regarding this important road, the Smokey Way, the Westland Road, and the Southland Road, these are the very roads that we make, and these are about speed management. However, much remains of these projects, and it is quite clear that over the next four years, there will not be doubles of the Rhine Way, or other automobiles, from Reykjavík, to the citynes or east of Hellu. All these projects will simply not be possible at that time, but there will be a lot of work done in these four years. Then, in the following years, the work will have to be completed, but it will not happen after 10 or 12 years, as people were deeply concerned about one year ago. Within four years, though, we will not be able to complete all this work and everything else that we are going to do. Not even if we put all the money into it, we simply couldn't have done it. Well, first of all, maybe about the old M.I.E.L.I.E.L.D. It has been a political promise that he is available, but he will not be part of the business unless the operators want to fire him. It will be available primarily as a backup ship while men are testing the new ship, and it will reveal how it will work. It's true that there's been a substantial delay in the shipment, and there's nothing new that it's been muscled. The ship, of course, was to be originally introduced to the former part of the summer, so it has been greatly delayed by the shipyard. Therefore, there is a cumulative remuneration. Now there is a tough and tough deal between the Road Building and the shipyard on these items. I sure hope it will end well and the ship will come home soon and then be ready when that happens. But it would be absurd to assume an additional 1 billion in a financial program because the ship was fully stocked and completely in accordance with the agreement on which the campaign was completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u218	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I may not have been wondering if all the projects I mentioned would have been completed. The Smokey Way, the Westland Road, and the Southland Road, but what would be the situation on this project after this strategy. If a minister could do a little more about that, that would be fine. I think it's very important to General that the way of the ship's coming to be used is in any way possible. V.E.G. A minister points out that it will be available if necessary. I've heard of the Islanders' ideas that they will even be used together with the new ferry, especially for moving. It'd be nice to hear from a minister about it. Well, it's been very well for old Mührer, a good seaship, and it would be sorry for him if he left the country or for some other mission. [[The president calls.]] It'd be nice to have this past the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u219	A respectable president. In fact, it says in the financial program that after a new Western island ticket, i.e. A new flight liner will be used for the old ferry, which is certainly old but fine ships, used as spare ships, and for other projects, at least for the first time, as long as there's a chance of getting on the new ferry. If it turns out the new ferry doesn't have a demand, and there's going to be a crisis to get two ships fired, you have to pick it up specifically. Of course, we have a subsidized agreement on these things in this regard. Or it may be possible that someone would want to run the old ferry next to it. It'll just come to mind when it happens, but I don't know about it. Our primary promise is that this ship is available as long as there is experience in getting back on the ferry. For the position on the project, it may well be noted that this is a five - year financial program, and I have proclaimed in it that we will establish a new five - year program in the fall. Then, after some years, you may be able to see a better and precise position on individual matters, including the current task. A senator asks about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u220	Mr. President. I've been running this financial program with great interest. In transport, there are a lot of things you would have liked to see done better, but of course, you realize completely that we live in a large country. We are few, and the land is mountainous and we have to bridge the big year, etc., so we can't all vote. Through the decades, however, we have shown a reasonably effective way of getting ourselves up to airports in many lands. Although, as noted in the budget, in recent years I have been drawn up to a new level of activity, I miss only the fact that there is no mention in the plan that something should be done in the airport of the capital area. As we know, we Icelanders have never done a great thing on our own to land runways to the capital area. We are still using an old war zone built by the British in the middle of the city, where we stand in the city's organization, and, in fact, transport to the whole city, to the cleaners. I'm aware that a travel minister will answer the call of this matter, it's been referred to for a long time. I'd like to ask if we can't assume that there will be a posetive out of that committee, such as. The need to build new runways somewhere else or at least build a new air base instead of the now ignominious helicopter used to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. It is a joy to know that at least some members of the Parliament are very interested in reading the financial program. I can agree with what. A senator, of course, would like to see different things and have much more money to play because the projects are truly enough. With regard to airports, it is certainly true that we have had part of the international airport based on old military planes. True, in 1999, most of the area of Reykjavík was rebuilt. But it is true that he has been standing firm, and he too is near. A senator to my answer is that this case is on the committee. Hv. A senator asked if anything positive would come out of it, and I think there's a lot of positive things coming out of it. One committee after another has been set up to examine these things, but it has never been completed and answered to figure out what it takes to become a real backup airport. How much would that cost? What change would be needed? Is there another area near the capital area that could take advantage of these objects? And how much does it cost for humans to have real options? What time will it take if they agree to move the airport, i.e. as long as they'll have found another area as good or better than the current Reykjavík airport? When will he be ready, and how much will it cost? I think a lot of those questions will be answered. But for the time being, we're just reevaluating our arrival on a terminal station in connection with the CDC, BSI, in cooperation with the capital. [[The president calls.]] It is launching a competitive offer of ideas where the terminal would be connected or in the same house. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u222	It went as I expected, not only that I could get the answer that the case was on a committee, but also doubt about how long it would take to put one or two runways in place of what is now and how much it would cost. I'd like to remind you, first of all, that we Icelanders have never had the eye to build runways. They're all over the country, and they've been deposed by great eutrophication, it's just never been done in the capital area on our part. Committees have paid their dues. It has been pointed to as a highly estimating advantage in the Basshaun, the Lagaskers, on the Bessposts'nes. I don't think it's that complicated. Two or three airports were laid during the wartime years by the Americans in Greenland. It took six months to build a runway that is still valid as international airports. If it's just a matter of decision, there's no problem finishing it quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u223	A respectable president. I don't doubt it, and agree with what. A senator, the ability of us Icelanders to perform things is rapid and effective. However, we need to keep in mind if we are to move the international airport to the extent that the benefits of bringing it to everyone in Iceland, including the national community, must be connected in some way to the international airport so that the distribution of tourists directly from the international airport to the land is guaranteed, as we have seen with a fine benefit in both Norway and Finland. There are many things to consider, and more planning is needed if we are to make good use of the funds. But I completely agree with what. A senator says we can do things fast and fast. About Greenland, I think there were two governments in the past few months for the decision to build a new airport instead of using the old U.S. military airport. So it's risky and I don't suggest it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u224	A respectable president. Do it fast and fast, it's interesting if we look at sick people and other things in Iceland today. In 2017 a report, a million tons were published for 2030, where a then environmental minister obtained analysis of what would be needed to eliminate carbon emissions in order to meet standards and international agreements. That's where we even came from. so that public transportation would have to be increased in order to match the demographics of traffic, that 100,000 non-exploitable cars would have to be in the car fleet by 2030 and the rest of the fleet had to be destroyed, both small and large. Today, there are some 10,000,200,000 new registrations on cars, and these are 100,000 cars to be reached by 2030. The situation is now about 5,000 or something like that. The financial program discusses the number of eco-friendly cars as a proportion of them, with the situation in 2018 5.5%, a reference point of 2020 being 9% and four years later 10%, a total of 1 percent. It does not reach the criteria set out in this report, and this section, 100,000 expiratory emissions, is no small part, it is 1/4 of this plan for a million tons to decrease for 2030. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why not put more into it? There are some ideas on how to achieve this goal, but according to government policy, up to 10% at the end of this program, it is far from reaching.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u225	A respectable president. Hv. A senator makes good sense to find small errors in things. I noticed this very afternoon, that it was only supposed to grow by 1% between the years. I have not yet received an explanation whether the purpose of those years is suddenly lost in ambition or if the printed error was at work. It is clear, however, that our opportunities to change energy are immense with all this renewable energy, all of this economic motivation. Instead of spending 25 to 30 billion in currency, which we pay to the Norwegians or Saudis or other oil countries, to get that money in our money. According to our candidates, land activation is owned by the people and should remain as well as by many of the largest energy companies owned by the countryside. Thus, the amount of the resource will go directly to us in two ways, using efficient electricity to the owners, to the inhabitants, and if we were to further use this energy to create transport, we would be exploiting the people of this country as yet. I agree with that. I'm convinced that we can achieve these goals faster and have to spit in our hands, not just because we have to get some numbers on paper out of climate goals, but simply because this is so economicly positive for Iceland. Not just for national preparation, but for the individuals who have to run these cars. It is true that public transportation can do much to help, but there are also many companies and businesses in the country who have to deal with this. Hence, it is such a joy to see that for the formation of the fishing road, this is already achieved, to reduce emissions by 46%, and the year is 2019 instead of 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u226	A respectable president. I ask because this is an enormously important matter - it's obviously economic practical, like the highest. A minister points to - but I do not see to it that the proposals presented in the report are being carried out. It says that support must be in the infrastructure. That's what we're talking about, for 100,000 cars, probably electricalized cars, over the past 30 years. I don't see anything, either in this plan or in the transport program, that it is specifically started, as I mentioned earlier. We have 10,000,200,000 newly registered cars. We're far from having half the newly registered cars as electric cars, so if we expect there to be 20,000 new cars, 10,000 are electric cars, it'll take 10 years to reach 100,000 cars - and we're not even close to being in the current amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u227	A respectable president. We have the same attractions as Norway and they are doing pretty well, so I don't think it takes much to get the ball rolling very fast here. The climate management programme is not in this transport package, so there is no hope. A senator sees those things there. They're with environmental ministers like what? A senator knows, of course. There are support measures for the build-up of materials. But so it is, of course, that professional life needs to be brought. I have expectations that what is happening is exactly what is happening, that people are going to deal with it, because it's economic positive for them, too, to set up loading stations and such things. It is being encouraged to use more eco-friendly energy, such as to form the estimate, to exploit it. It's been pointed out that this is not going to go well until it's too good hydrogen cars, which I have full faith in and then things are going to happen very fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u228	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the discourse and information presented during the discussion. Depending on the nature of the case, the discussion may have been a major matter of transportation and change of energy. But I would like to look at the country level only, in part, to the discussion that has been about the cryo-conservation of rural society, but perhaps in a larger context, I have been concerned about government approach to the rural level and in the general discussion. For a long time, reports have been made about both the income of the rural administrations, major projects have been taken to the level of government but never sufficiently financed, and further debates now over the cryo-conservation of an equation fund can also be cited as reflections, for example. Independence to the decline of an outback as a contribution into a dresser interview and something like that. However, it seems that rural government is viewed as some kind of source of financial advantages. Then you look at the fresh accounting of the Haguems on the arrival of the government, which included: In recent years, it is very clear that the loss of the unit management level is entirely inadequate and it appears that the current economic rise has yielded much less relative benefits to the government than to the public. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is anyone running to strengthen the unit's specific control level for possible country members size, etc. and make them more equipped to carry out their legal assignments? Is there a work in progress regarding a review of rural funding in a broader context? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u229	President. Thank you. A senator for these reflections and questions. That's right, like what's wrong. A senator came on, about the freezing of these donations for an equation between 2020 and 2021, and I agree with it. A senator might be better off coming from the local community. Men have looked to her for improvement, but compared with the upcoming times we've lived, perhaps you could have expected more of it. Nevertheless, when we talk about this over a billion dollars, the tax payment is more than 20 billion in the countryside, so that people are talking about the right amount of money that has only been missing, but not at the end of time. I've heard of a senator in general conversation today. The tea stocks? In part, they are simple. They may be mostly of three ways, an answer, however, property fees, and then the balance fund primarily, and some other service fees. It has been examined, for example. further revenues of real estate fees by electro-enforcement contractors. But the big job may be just how we can strengthen our communities. There's a very good work going on that will end with me bringing a Senate resolution in the fall of the state's policy on the affairs of rural society, between five and 15 years of age, in which we watch a rural society, whether it had to be a minimum population or what projects the rural communities needed. Of course, some geographic situation, long distances, etc., may need to be taken into account, as has been seen in other countries. But this is a very exciting work and project, including because the result is not good enough for today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u230	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I welcome the work he presented. In this context, I wondered: Is plans for some financial incentive to unite my community? At the very least, the budget does not show that there is a budget for such a thing, but it might be interesting in addition to the definition of some form of such basic size or basic community member that there may be some incentive for an extended equation. But it would be interesting to know whether it is for distribution. Is there any real work going on? The rural population has called for a share in various tax revenues, such as inflation taxation, possible overnight spending, and so on, in order to enjoy. better be helped by the construction of employment in relevant areas and especially when looking for travel services. [[The president calls.]] Because the living staff and the location of the operation don't always go together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u231	A respectable president. Yes, that is, you might say, a persistent conversation between the state and the local community about the income trade of the state and the community. Indeed, the wishes of the rural society have been able to get a share in other taxes in a broader way under a number of things; they may have been able to use just the most successful companies, the tax that was commercial tax, and was not very popular. But it is true that this discussion is ongoing, and it is very important that the State and the communities have healthy relations on that basis. These are two equal administrative points in the country. I hope it will succeed in spite of such slight failure in the last few weeks because of soltlu, as someone said. With regard to financial motivation, it is just the idea of using the balance fund as a financial incentive. We've been building rules that are not only to strengthen the growing communities but also to meet rural communities that are being joined in order to reduce their debt. [[The president calls.]] But on other factors, it is really a financial incentive to go to that process. This will be explained in the work of the future committee and will end with a concierge proposal for state policy in the affairs of rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u232	A respectable president. We're talking about a financial plan. It reports that since 2012●2018, there has been a tremendous increase in traffic; in the capital area alone, about 31%; on the round road, about 50%; and on the Myrdal Land, by 270%. What surprises me, too, is a reduction in one-burning bridges on the ring road, it seems she's going to be in slow motion. That's what worries me. It shows the need for maintenance on this road that when you drive down here in the malaria-based capital area, you worry about getting into a hole after a hole. Almost every day, you have to make sure that you don't ruin your car because the roads are completely stable. I want answers from a minister. The road's monotonous bridges and poor maintenance, which poses a tremendous danger to traffic. We cannot afford to increase the number of road accidents. But with the same condition, traffic accidents increase, and this is expensive for society. I'm asking you, what's the plan? Are those due charges? The maintenance need is 50 constituted a billion. Or is it to make sure that what was to be taken into a national fund will be used in building roads?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u233	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. The growth in the years mentioned in the financial program is tremendous, both in the round road and, of course, in isolated places. Hv. A senator named Myrdalsand, perhaps a road that a few years ago was not considered necessary, but today is necessary. The service team has grown among us, and we have had difficulty living up to the growing budget, on the one hand, by increasing winter travel and a general requirement to improve our service, especially during wintertime. The hives are more expensive than snowslash. But as for that, as a matter of course. A senator named us 4 billion more last year from reserve to maintenance, and we have 10 billion; in 2016 they were less than 6. The increase has been severe, and I know why. A senator has seen, on his journey through the country this year, that things were getting very better. Now that we are at the same time, the roads come off winter, and the damage becomes evident again. We certainly have not picked up our trunks, so we deposit extra money there. However, as for the reduction of one - broad bridges, there were 37 on the round road in 2018, next year, 2020, we'll have a six - down to 31, and 2024 will be back to 25. I want less of it. Some of these bridges, though alone, are very expensive to a senator. It may cost a billion or two dollars, even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u234	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But I wanted answers on the Smokey Way. It is these traffic jams that all suffer morning and evening. There seems to be no solution there. At least you can't help but say you're going to spit in and put a false street meet. How do we solve the problem with the Rhine Way, the Hafnarfjördur, the Garden Town, and the Caplacca? Then there's something else I don't see in there, and it's about Norwegian, Sufjörður and Fundur. There will be dams of winter, spring and fall, and there will be no mention of this in any plan. It's like it doesn't exist. There are travelers on the outside who have to drive this dangerous road, and something has been required to be done in this regard. What's the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u235	A respectable president. We'll talk about a five-year budget here. Although specific transport projects are listed here, financial plans are not for them but for the larger figures in a five - year plan. That doesn't change the fact that there's nothing wrong with answering back. A senator with ideas of how to resolve these traffic knots, including those, is present. ... onSmokingSmoneyway through Hafnarfjördur. They will, hopefully, appear in a reexamination of the transport program that will appear in the fall, the five - year plan, and other plans for the Roadmaker in cooperation with the rural areas of the capital area on that assignment. Of course, the same applies to tunnels to Sufjörður and necessary changes. That way I could count around the country, full of projects that are very important. But in financial planning, we are primarily talking about the big box. [[The president calls.]] Happily, there is a significant increase in transport resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u236	A respectable president. I'll discuss the lawsuits under my department; 12, 13 and 16. Of course, most of the elements involved are agriculture, fishing, and fish farms are being introduced in a more powerful way than ever before. In money, this may not be the largest pack of expenses. A total of some 25 billion cases are being defended properly during the year 2019. Of course, the largest joint involved in the expenses under which there are farming contracts that take to heart some 16 billion of the 25 billion. The seabed part is just about 6,7 billion years old. However, the scope of the two sectoral work, the main branch in the country, is considerable. The overall value of agricultural production is nearly 62 billion. and there are about 4,200 farms in this country. Some 3,200 of them have farm production, i.e. Make meat, eggs, milk. Garments, tourism, and other employment are then significant. In effect, about 1.6% of labour force at the labour market is in the agriculture sector directly, with some 7,000 related jobs. The main challenges in the Department of Agriculture during the coming period, which is next in time, are reviews of the livestock contracts. One factor's over, i.e. The sheep contracts and the rest of them are gardening, cattle farming, and then a frame deal. Second, I'd like to mention that there is a full need to strengthen the agricultural management and third, there is a review of the distribution of tollovates and also to cross customs protection and to examine the competitive status of the agricultural sector. I'd also like to mention that in a movie, there is a review of the risk assessment, monitoring of key food safety risks, and other aspects of the program. On the other hand, regarding the fishing route, it is also somewhat heavy in the commercial life of the country. We're talking about 4% of the people's hard work at fishing, fishing, and fishing. Of course, this involves countless articles now, the field of technology is particularly getting very strong, and is actually a more powerful export. The total price produced in this country is nearly 200 billion. K. Even if it's a little pulled together. As for the fishing route, I would like to conclude that the major factors and emphasis there do not in themselves take much action. It involves the sustainable and responsible use of the living resources of the ocean, which is based on scientific knowledge. And we're seeing them focus on the budget, focusing on trying to strengthen the basis for the resource use. The biggest project there is the breakthrough release produced by the General on the construction of a new ocean research vessel that will continue to take on the testing capacity of the Oceanographic Institute for many years. We also plan to reexamine the financial standards, research, and further strengthen the Agency's capacity for them. But at the end of my speech, I want to mention what is best in this field, i.e. development of new fish - fires. It is available in two of the laws established to the employment committee, on the one hand, in reviewing the legislation for fish fuel, and on the other hand, in terms of currency. It is vital that we make sure that we are fully careful to build up the sector on the basis of the best available knowledge at this time, but it is possible and sure to do so. Because under it, there is a great deal of interest in the valuables that can be produced in the way of which fish farmers plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u237	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history. I'm just gonna get a little touch on some of the seaside parts. It's interesting to me that in the poor financial programs, about 500 pages are just nine pages on the fishing road and fish farms. The reason is likely many, and the person here does not have a special opinion on this subject. For a brief chapter on the future vision and the main objective, I would like to quote only that chapter, with the permission of a president: THE government's perspective is that fishing and fish farming are at the top of international markets. These articles are based on sustainable resource use and best scientific knowledge so that they can continue to create innovation and product development in order to ensure competitiveness and increase the value of products. Professionals use living natural resources in the ocean, and they need careful consideration for the impacts of the work on ecosystems. The main objective of the topic area is that the management of fish fishing and fish farming is sustainable and efficient and the environment of the articles is practical, predictable, and contributing to the growth of valuables. It also contributes to the practical work conditions and the integration of the scattered seas, Now there's been a lot of compression in a number of projections over the last few years that seem to continue and that I would like to ask the highest degree. Seafaring minister: Are there any counter-requisite measures in this relationship, i.e. ... becauseofa reduced fishing project? Can we expect some action on a vision that may not be seen in this text?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u238	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I don't think the text in this relationship is all that has to be said about the importance or content of the language that is under hearing, although only nine pages of 500, like the other. A senator said, centered on fishing and fishing. Then it's just that there's a lot bigger than foam in some other places. There's plenty of data submitted to the council. Simply put, it is not easy to have many words about things when it is possible to communicate properly. That's what I know. A senator is well - acquainted and well - versed at sea, and he is well - versed in that regard. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks about vision and other matters, whether any counter-improvement is counter-compression, so it is not to be distributed in this document. In fact, the seabed has worked on conditions we know well - known. We have a built-in component of the fishing system designed to counteract the structural disorder that inevitably comes with the transport of resources. It is the so - called 5.3% pots. Under that direction, if I recall correctly, more than 32,000 tons of fishing resources, a considerable part of the fishing grounds. They have been used to counteract structural disorders, the effect of compression if this is to be divided. I'll be the first to admit that it's quite time for us to evaluate how this arrangement, 5.3% of its pots, has proved to be in this relationship. I think we need to check that out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u239	V.E.G. President. Thank the Minister. It was really that I was talking about this brief chapter because my meaning was that the sustainability of this article basically says how short this section is; it takes a little care of itself. The minister quoted from 5.3%, which is used to deliver shrimp boats, shell, and penance, and so on. Then there is a pot we call a beach pot, which will be about 11,000 tons of water. Because there is a Scriptural point, and there is something else that the minister just mentioned, the same question is, in effect, about what the minister will foresee in the future, about settlements, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u240	A respectable president. Yeah, I think it's time, as I could before, to work on how to assess the benefits and possible changes in the social equations we've built up in a fishing system, such as the stocks, or 5.3% of the pot, and he's supposed to do. We can see that, for example. the change in line harmony, however badly it's new. I have personally seen and heard a discussion of the fact that humans have serious doubts about how this general and specific settlement is being applied. There is good reason to reconsider, and we can see, for example. that there have been changes in the way these things are distributed. So there are things to think about, and I expect to have an excellent partnership. A senator when it comes to reevaluation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u241	Mr. President. However, the programme presents several changes in agricultural management, such as the highest level. There was a minister in his history, and assumed that projects including The implementation of agricultural labour agreements and other professional agricultural projects will be carried out from Food Agency to the Ministry. While reading the first sounds like a reasonable move, I pondered the impact on the business of MAST and the Ministry's administration, especially in the light of the protocol requirements. The Agency has an extensive role when it comes to agriculture and fish farming, and it is important that the Agency has sufficient opportunity to perform this role. I fear that this is not the case, and with a higher standard of living will be further summed up. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he can foresee that the Agency's position will be in relation to the criteria set out here and how he can foresee that the Ministry's administration will change. Will this change make for the growth of jobs within the Ministry? Recent development and development support and innovation of the process will be emphasized in order to make agriculture a desirable site, the best case. But I also want to ask the highest. A minister of how he envisions to work toward that goal, and I did not find any work related to it, nor did I find a standard. The only thing I could possibly connect with is the task of developing a powerful fund that strengthens innovation and development projects in food production, but it says in the text that together, among other things, plans are being made. The agricultural source fund and the AVS research fund in the fishing road. Today, the wording is ▪ m.a., to be used. Is there more funds to be looked at that way? Similarly, I ask a minister if he really thinks that the unity of these funds takes so long, but it is assumed that it will occur during the period of 2019 ulcers23.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u242	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the inquiry. Regarding the change in agricultural management and the turning of what is called the Farmroom, it is to answer that the Agency's work was carried out until the end of 2015. It was then transferred to the Food Agency, where it has been 2016, 2017, 2018, and until now. This is a administrative unit that does not fall into the core activity of the Food Agency. The nuclear activity of the Food Agency focuses mainly on food control and then on animal health and animal control, towards the level of agriculture. Other factors, like fish farming, are in there. The effects on the management of the Food Agency should be the same as those that would come back when a living room went in there. It is the same unit as the same budget restored. This is part of strengthening the agriculture management of the marine and agricultural sector, which is not a need for my opinion. It's an excellent concordat of bringing in a living room there. These include five or six jobs. I have no reason to believe that this particular procedure is going to require that there be a special fixture of the Food Institute, for she was granted her resources through it. About what turns together boils and boils. A senator named them are ideas that are about changing the boil system that both face agricultural and marine eco-efficiency. It's been going on for a long time. It takes time. I can totally share that opinion with you. A senator said that it is too far to conclude that this view and inspection will not be completed until 223 C.E. It's a long way. I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u243	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Of course, it is time to commend what is done and to mention in particular the sexe that is drawn up in the agricultural industry, as well as to rejoice in the lack of motivation and support to reduce the environmental impact of food production and carbon equal agriculture, something that farmers themselves have been working on and calling out for. However, it is not clear enough whether this is merely a question of sheep farmers or whether the whole group of farmers is seen as they do and would be good if a minister could explain it. In view of the development of agricultural production in the last five years, the fact is that the production of major meats per population has increased slightly or took place. But over the years, vegetables and grain have been harvested on every resident, but they are drawn together, which I consider to be a cause for concern. A minister does not consider it an opportunity to look for increased production of vegetables and fruits, thus making use of e.g. A geothermal we have enough of?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u244	A respectable president. In terms of the carbon equation, work is being done on the sheep farmers. That's to me, a project for the pioneers. Thus, sheep farmers showed a keen interest in the revision of the sheep part of the livestock stock agreements. So we rejoiced, as well as the government, when it set up an action plan on climate change. That assignment was turned in there. It is not clear that this is how we will develop our work ethic. But it is also unmistakably that other areas of agriculture need to be covered, not just the sheep's raise. But the original right is there, and we're just supposed to master what we're going to do with sheep's farms and let them enjoy what they're going to do. Then we'll apply the experience to other aspects of agriculture. [[The president calls.]] And, yes, I agree with that. A senator said that we should consider the possibility of improving the production of vegetables.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u245	President. I would like my first speech to have a place to speak. A minister of two things has been identified as a fishing industry and a fish farm. However, there has been another reference here, i.e. what is expected to be structural. I must say that I was very pleased to see these goals in the section on the fishing road, where the second objective, numbered, is by permission of the president: ▪ Structural influence of resources assigned by the government. It will be considered how the government's resources have custody, 5.3%, are the key to building solidity and innovation. V.E.G. Only then did a minister enter when he had a word about it. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson, who proclaimed a review of this, would be pleased to learn more about what is involved, since there are natural possibilities there. V.E.G. A minister spoke of the so - called settlement. Is the minister looking more closely to the department that has been in charge? What are the changes? Maybe we should raise these 5.3% and contribute to an even greater level of structure with even greater resources? And there would be other things to discuss if there were more time. We'll probably have a place to say this again. The rest of us are about to take in a fish farm we talked about here during the days. There are new avenues of payment that will likely, in the end, translate considerably more money into the state fund than we have seen up to this level of employment - direct income. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers each think and whether there will be anything in this financial program or how the minister's thinking is concerned, how the budget will be so set.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u246	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, I mentioned that I feel that the need to go to work to reevaluate the arrangements for this pot distribution. In the time of my predecessor, ideas of this matter were handled well, even though we have not been able to get started with the work that I believe we need to do, to study it, and to try to figure out how we need to deal with it. To me, I don't have any part of this 5.3% more than anyone else. You only see what's happening like. ... fora cross-checking. The sources there have been dating because the mechanism is changing. Men are no longer involved in this deforestation, it's more than just mechanical use, etc. I'm not looking for any of these pots to be raised or lowered, this 5.3%. I think we must first try to identify how this has come out, what emphasis we want to put into the background, because our main objective must be two, one that most of the resources of the sources underneath, and another, in what other way we can make the most of this social purpose possible. The fishing industry is thinking that we're gonna get it on, and then at first it's gonna be connected to the budget, how it's going to be arranged, and then we're going to start this summer. I have imagined that, first of all, this price is paid at the expense of monitoring and monitoring, and then research into the wild salmon's career in the ocean, which are little or none. [[The president calls.]] So this price goes to start with these factors to my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u247	President. Well, that's the agricultural minute, then. In this chapter, a future vision and the main objective, says by permission of the president: In Iceland, a healthy and sustainable food production is being practiced in the countryside. Its premise is that the state of state balance in production, effective monitoring, and innovation. And then later: To reduce the environmental impact of food production and carbon - equivalent agriculture, there will be incentives and support. In the light of words, the highest. A minister before this day about the admiration of moulded words and the dislike of foam would do well to hear in reply at the highest level. Minister, what's underneath here? It's only been made into the sheep farm, but it's a lot bigger than it is. ▪ The health and sustainable production of food is a tremendously good goal that all of us can aim to achieve, as well as to reduce the environmental impact of food production and carbon - equivalent agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u248	A respectable president. What lies ahead is to make the most of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the many people in the agricultural sector work to do even more. That is, in fact, the basis for what is suggested here. And as well as the work ahead of us, we use the emphasis the government has been drawing up, especially. in that area as quick as possible. A senator here refers to the carbon balance of agriculture. It has been in my mind that we need to figure out how we are going to handle the steps being taken and how we are going to measure the results we are achieving. All of us have the same demonstration that we need to reduce emissions, but we may not have enough equipment to measure how we are going to reach the steps we want to reach. The thought of the research centre of agriculture and work has been aimed at developing such a system and starting with the sheep farm, which we can then apply to other agricultural sectors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u249	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss the budget of the government by 2020-2024. It is obvious that much is missing in the plan and that important projects will continue to be ignored. These include ecology research during the period of environmental change. Subsea studies that, if successful, could become an important resource in the years to come. There is also the need for increased studies to improve the understanding of hairy behaviour and the reasons for the reduction of the powder. It is of utmost importance that a Merit Research Institute has funds to watch such a population as a hairy one, but to ensure that it would take about 200 million each year. Sadly, the present government has not put priority on meeting this important organization. The European Union of Fishing even has a positive impact on the European Union of the European Union. It should be noted that by its arrival the population's income is about 17 billion. It's hard to believe that the activities of the EEC need to depend on the operators on funding. Even though we're talking about pennies in the big context, it's obvious that it's a terrible thing for a marine research agency to rely on such projects to go to ships and/or capitalize on such projects when the Agency's funds for such activities are emptied. That's why I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Sea digor: how do you intend to go to the highest? When it becomes evident that the public interests of the world are so high, do ministers respond to the reality of the Red Sea?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u250	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. However, there is no need for us to discuss the affairs of the Cradle in a natural disaster style. A senator makes it difficult for the Ecological Institute to perform research on the field of central sea fish or on the behavior of hairy fish. I just want to remind you that we have probably never put as much money into hairy research as we have done for two years. They put in, if I remember correctly, 185 million. K. foie gradation specifically marked hairy research. It may well be that all the 15 million people between this 200 billion are remembered. K. the number of a number. The senator and the sum of the money set into the foundation of Merro for hairy research. I also mention that although we haven't had the happiness of finding a stick of fish, we've never worked so hard to look for fur as we did for this season. You can always do research, you're absolutely right. I agree with what passes by. A senator in that we don't have, and it's not specifically attached to Iceland or Icelandic research, enough understanding of the interaction between different aspects of the marine ecosystem. More information is needed, not just here in Iceland, but in a international language. Fortunately, we are in good cooperation with scientists elsewhere, but the knowledge has not, unfortunately, accomplished enough. This may be the basic reason why when we're dealing with the use of species in living things around Iceland, we're more or less estimating this from the size of each species rather than we're developing enough to examine the interaction of these different aspects of the life chain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u251	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'm not gonna stand here and point, it's cheap to do it. The more difficult it is to offer suggestions, so I would like to suggest it to the highest level. Ministers find funds and specifically distinguish them in the management of the Marine Research Agency and Food Institutes and set up, possibly by a management bill, a formal field between institutions intended to increase the control of fish farming. They were treated by the scientific side, while the Food Institute, possibly in cooperation with the Fish Service, for observation. So these funds can't go into another business. In view of the above, most people realize that neither of the Agency can perform its defined role in safety monitoring, research and development of fish breeds. The staff are too few and have not increased in accordance with the increase in activity of this article. Based on available data on the annual budget of both institutions, it is advisable to conclude that they can perform their legal functions as appropriate. A minister must have ambition for his tribe of litigation. I can only believe that these things can be mistaken.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u252	A respectable president. Yes, I have pride in the seminary and thank you very much. A senator's insistence. Although I'm more strongly responding to what is being said here, I believe that there are ways of doing better. Governments can do better about financing in various basics of society. I mention it as an example, for example. With regard to sea research, it is not in my mind that it is acceptable to finance as much of the Merro as we have done with funds based on the rise of illegal forces. We're even. ... tochangeit now, we're bringing more intensive funding to the Ocean, so the Agency doesn't have to rely on such fluffy funds. All of this should only help to strengthen the foundation of our research. I share an opinion of what? A senator in that we can always place extra money on research. I also say that sometimes we can go better with and play more out what we get than we do. I also need to be a minister of the seminary to look out for those views.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u253	A respectable president. This time, in a financial discussion, we are entering a cooling economy. A more advanced financial plan is the maintenance and discipline of government government, which is a long - term evidence of responsible financial management. When faced with the challenge of having to resort, it is good to look to new sectors that could contribute much to national preparation. Then I'd like to mention the fish fire. A job - management committee is developing policies in fish farming, and it is important to be careful about the task to succeed in the future. There are considerable employment opportunities in a fish farm that needs to be based on the objectives of sustainability and responsibilities. In a financial program, it is happy to find out that research and development need to be considered. The structure of administration and monitoring must also be considered as the article grows. This is especially important, since we are going to build up the sector for the future as eco-friendly food production. We are faced with increased demand for protection of ecosystems, wholesome products, food and food safety, demand for the health of fish in the fire, health requirements, a demand for the minimisation of waste in the high chain, and the focus of market participation on sustainable fishing and fire. If we succeed in building a strong framework around salmon fire, this is an enormously important addition and can be expected to be exported in 2020, relative to 40,000 tons of production, there could be over 30 billion dollars. It takes less than that. Here we have an export branch that could penetrate a delicate economy in this country that is sensitive to sectoral fluctuations. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how he envisions a national impact on fish farming for the future and how they come to their senses in the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that the economic situation of the nation is under way, but I stress that the situation of the nation's financial situation is enormous trust, and we have the ability to cope with tragedy if it comes up, which hopefully will not happen in the near future. The discussion, however, is different at this time, as often happens. With the possibility of a fish farm, it is absolutely accurate. A senator points out, the production is taking quite a leap. Last year, we were producing salmon up to 10,000-1,000 tons, and the corporate plans assume that this year it almost makes over 30,000 tons of production, an enormous amount of growth. It is a valuable product, it is valuable products, but we need and must and should strive to build this sector with great responsibilities and nothing to do. In this regard, I have emphasized that what we do is based on the best scientific knowledge each time, taking slow but safe steps in that regard. I personally believe that the potential of Icelandic fire companies in the preparation of quality products and the greater agreement on this production, the greater the potential for it to be marketd at foreign markets in competition with the more mass productions that are being produced elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] I see this happening and the national impact will be so that growth will bring us long-term income on the basis of what I've been trying to do here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u255	A respectable president. Then I'll go up to the country. The government's vision of the future is that in Iceland healthy and sustainable food production is being practiced in the countryside. Its premise is that the state balance between production, monitoring and innovation is effective. To achieve that goal, strong food policies must be activated. It needs to reflect its unique status, its construction of food production here for sustainable development, its quality, and, most important, the interests of consumers. A financial program speaks of opportunities for improvement and support for innovation and products development, the cohesion fund, and the marine research fund. Investment in education and research is an investment to the future. The challenge of the future land is innovation and climate and the basis for land growth. The development and growth of these factors are based on strong research support. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister how the next five - year financial program supports research in agriculture and how he sees it strengthens these research.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u256	A respectable president. It is true that our future in this regard is in order for us to take a clear, long - term course, and that work is under way. Food policy preparation has come from the starting halls. We have decided within the government to take that work to the level of the Ministers and it will be done in the near future, which is fundamental. When we look at the whole farm, I've had that experience with him, including that. of my report at the Ministry of Education, that the agri-environment is not sufficiently strong in this country. So that the University of Innunia is under the Ministry of Education, which is left with some funding in the Department of Agriculture. [[The president calls.]] I can't even remember what kind of money that is, about 100 million. K. which, unfortunately, have been adversely affected. That is why we should be able to do better, but in the financial program it is not expected to be largely altered in any text. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u257	Mr. President. I would like to look at only the Icelandic agriculture and the information presented in the financial plan, perhaps in a similar way as many members of the Parliament have been here on research and development. Especially am I glad that the minister is very understanding about promoting agricultural research and promoting innovation, since I think - and is convinced - that all these materials that we have in Icelandic agriculture are vastly equipped with these materials. However, there is a particular initiative to take. I also want to be happy that the plan remains on the matter of establishing a powerful supply of food. I'd like to ask a minister if it's not intended to combine them with the agricultural industry fund and the AVS. But at the same time, I realize that more money is needed, and I ask: Is there any part of the increase in innovation for agriculture and fishing and a powerful source of food? For agriculture, emissions are perhaps the third largest greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland. It has a plan here that the situation in 2018 is 456,000 tons, with a limit of 2% and again by 224 by 2%. I have to say, I don't think I'm quite ambitious in this. Does a minister have any room for these figures to become cohesive with the article? Could it be that the article itself has more ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions than is shown in the document? I think this is one of the most important things for us right now when we're trying to get ahold of the agriculture, how to frame it better and put your arms around it. How we have a vision of the future, including in this field. Is change in regard to standards expected - and might this rather be an ambitious goal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u258	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. That's what I'm willing to do, and that's even. presented in the report with what took place on the consultation guide and turned to a so - called meat language, relating to freezing and other activities. One of the ideas associated with it is to try to support Icelandic food production by leaping up the fund system. I see an opportunity to draw more money along with the innuendo into these innovations, which I also sense a great deal of will within the article in an effort to establish. We don't have special funding for it, but for that, we both need to enter the fishing system of the marine road, the agriculture, and, in part, the funding system of the industrial minister. That's what I'm talking about. So, definitely, I think there's a lot to go. With regard to emissions and carbon balance, it is true that agriculture is very large in it. It may well be an ambitious plan, but I've said it in my own discussion about these priorities that we are also putting considerable money into it on national levels, and that we hear it under the environmental and resource sectors. But we are also in a bad position to take certain steps, saying: " This is what we are going to do, and this will result in our success. I feel like, for example. So when I'm discussing the articles under which I hear that we find it so difficult to measure the results of the action being taken in this regard. I was trying to tell you earlier that we're trying to build this thing up. [[The president calls.]] Sure, we can do this better than I think we need better tools to set more ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u259	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer, and I'll just say: There's nothing more to do with it than to support a minister of it. I think there's an opportunity there, including... For agriculture. The financial plan also states: ▪ A competitive conflict with the operating conditions to be met. The aim is to set standards for these conditions. Here, naturally, it is important that the minister speak clearly. This morning's employment committee meeting discussed these matters. I am convinced that the way to strengthen the agriculture is free and free from competition. The consumer will join the producers, i.e. prayer. Therefore, it is important to see a specific review of the environment of products. I ask if a minister would agree with me in that this article is to be subject to the environment of competitiveness and that this is not to be given out of the way, as it were. the available bill on the candidate's side is more likely to fit into the general rules and be supported by agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u260	A respectable president. Just so I answer right away: I've answered here from this chair that I believe that the discussion of the products and their cooperation should simply be followed by the code of law prepared by the General for this operation, like other professions. First of all, we must test the ways in which we live. I believe that's why the Allied set this law code. When people have ideas about other ways, they will not escape answering the same basic questions and will be put in motion when looking for ways to get past the principle of competition. Then you need to answer the basic question: How should the cooperation with farmers and consumers benefit? That's why the Contestance Commission is supposed to answer. I believe it will be able to answer these questions better than the council. I agree with what. A senator on the big matter is to promote competition and support the Icelandic agriculture of having a powerful position in a competitive market. [[The president calls.]] The consumers will then be on the job rather than on the store.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u261	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Agricultural and marine ectoplasmary minister for our history and for being with us tonight. In very rare cases, we have talked about the uncertainty that has come up and attracts the budget for the coming year, that there is a continuing predictable hairy failure in the year with the unpredictable consequences for the land display, an incredible damage, and a severe trauma I expect at the highest level. Ministers are aware. My question is, Can a minister imagine trying to soften these tragedies in some way? Does he see potential, as he did in the years before? This is not the first time we face hairy deficiency, but further evidence was introduced. At that time, it was cod, hairy, and had access to fish on a cod to some extent. But now we may have a start, aquarium. We can mention strains that we have not used before, e.g. A piece of gold and salmon. Is that something we could possibly do, top dog? Minister, to try to soften this blow? Is that something of the highest value? A minister has spotted? Maybe I'd like to hear it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u262	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, as well, thank you so much for seeing you tonight. I also love being here. There's a big shock to the Hair failure, but that's how things get done in this business. We've got a problem with nature itself and the swing, especially in the open waters, is known. There are a number of reasons. We may be less aware of the behavior, ecology, these institutions than the bottom fish, that may be. A hairy light is a much stronger source. This has happened before. I remember the last time I saw it was in 2009. This is difficult, indeed, but I have answered that the article itself needs to be worn because simply that it is really not something else to take, at least not in these traditional fish stocks. We're using available resources in these largest crops of ours, they're all in the top of the labour rules we support, Icelanders, on the basis of scientific advice, so there's no room in that room. It's preferably in some institution as a whale. A senator, like a gold piece and something else human beings can bring because we have no restrictions on it. But these strains just don't give any rest. The reality today is that those that are heard must take down the swing when it is and the swing of it in its own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u263	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yes, I have also heard that the work itself must bear the burden of coping with this failure. I'm more curious about whether there's something else I'm looking at in the Ministry, maybe some gold dip and salmon in which there's no goodbye and can be picked up. Or the minister has identified something other than these institutions that we seek most cruelly and, as the minister points out, in perfect efficiency. Then the question is, Is there nothing else we can do? Are we not listening to something, even if it's not Eyjafjokull or Justin Bieber or something? But don't you notice something that we haven't noticed and that we might reduce our sleeves?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u264	A respectable president. I sure wish there was some sort of magic to be worked out, but the Ministry doesn't have any magic in that subject. The knowledge of these institutions is available in the Marine Research Institute. Similarly, if they want to go, they are at the same place with their hearer, and they are free to leave. It's just that way. On the other hand, if the shock occurs, the problem has become much bigger. This needs to be determined by factors other than fishing sources or new species, etc. Happily, the sound I have heard from the article is that people think they can handle it. They just need to get through it on the road. [[The president calls.]] But for communities, this is a tremendous blow, especially for those who have been involved in this work and pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u265	Mr. President. They're tracking land management as never before. The Tolla Convention on the European Union went into effect on May 1 last year, and the Treaty is unfavourable. It will lead to increased import of agricultural products, especially meat and cheese, in competition with Icelandic agriculture. The difference between farmers in the European Union and Iceland is great, as we know it. The import from the European Union is toll free and will be increased in steps over the next four years. Clearly, this will have a major impact on Icelandic agricultural production. On top of this big issue comes another big case, which is the judgment of the EFTA Court, that we must authorize the import of raw meat, eggs, and milk. V.E.G. Aggressor has presented a bill in that state, and all the rest of the import of raw meat begins in the autumn months. Mr. President. I can give a long talk on this serious matter. It turns to the health of our livestock and the public health of the public. What has to do with this financial agenda is that there is nowhere to see the funds to cope with these major events that Icelandic agriculture has to face and has already been exposed to. So I want to ask the highest. Agricultural Minister: What is the situation in what he has been preaching? Is it not reasonable for them to be mentioned, i.e. budgets for counter-important measures, in this program? And that's what it is, the highest. Agricultural minister, that this financial plan is really just bad for agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u266	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. No, it's not bad for agriculture. I can hear it. A senator is deeply concerned about the toll agreements made that went into effect on May 1, 2018, and he believes that import is greatly increased on the basis of it. It's not right if we just look at things the way they are. Imported beef, pork, and poultry meat are one - fourth of Icelandic meat markets. In 2017, the share of this import was in the range of 20◯30%. What happened when the customs contract went into effect? In addition, in 2018, between 2017 and 2018, the year was gathered, despite this number and the discussion of the whole history of this explosion. The company's vice president's position was that this showed the trust of the public in Icelandic agriculture, that he was in this competition despite increased pressure from customs and increased import. Those are his words. We are certainly in response to the EFTA Court's judgment but also the Supreme Court of our own system, which is a major blow. But because of him. A senator notes that the import of raw meat begins in the fall, and all this import is raw meat, e.g. a total of 4,000 tons in 2017. It's just frozen. But it's raw. It's just gonna be thawed. It's about whether we're moving in raw or unheated. Maybe it's a way out of each other's way. It is true that this amount of money is not worth much. A senator calls for the financial program. However, there is still strength to see, e.g. the role and ability of the Food Agency to care for specific factors related to this issue. We'll see a place like that. in the release of information on the news last week, on antibiotic resistance in Icelandic lamb. [[The president calls.]] That is knowledge we have so far failed to have, so we cannot prepare for such defenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u267	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It was evident that he is not concerned with the import that now faces the agriculture. It surprises me a little because he's been speaking before countercontractive measures, which is likely to mean he's having some concern about the case. But this is exactly what the local community has concluded on the raw meat case or on the duty of cryo-feature, let's put it this way, the highest. Minister, this is government surrender to the European Union or to the court of EFTA. The lack of mention in the financial program shows that governments do not have much concern over this matter, and that is unfortunate. [[The president calls.]] There I must join farmers and say that it is a surrender. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u268	A respectable president. There is no surrender to us in this matter. I'll quite admit that I'm not really worried about them moving raw meat in frozen or bringing raw meat in unheated. I'm not worried that this change will bring disaster to Icelandic agriculture. Our best scientists say there is no difference between these two methods, for example. antibiotic resistance or similar. Our concern stems from the import of fresh poultry food, and we are setting up defenses against it. I'll review it all when I get the Senate warrants to measure the case I have to deliver. There it all will be very clear and clear, timing complete, and I expect it, and I trust it to go. A senator will rejoice with me when I present them to him and join them and express support that they need to be established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u269	Mr. President. I read with keen interest the chapter on fish farming in this bill because I think it's both a very important and important subject in many ways. As a Westerner for all families, you have observed with keen interest the optimism you see in the west of this new industry, structure, and development that it could lead to. In the other strip, you have been watching and observing a wide range of environmental concerns, both pollution of the beaches, the destruction of potential fishing grounds, and the Icelandic salmon stock. So I considered how to assess the effect of it on both the income gate and the financial outposts of the budget. There is now a plan to increase salmon farms in sealands to about 70,000 tons a year, which is like 1/3 of what we hunt from cod every year, so it's a huge deal. On the other hand, I don't feel it in a financial program either way. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Where are plans to handle this from both income and cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u270	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It's not weird at all. A senator cannot see this in the financial program, for most of which are supposed to be laws without law and for example. In the bill shown about changes in fish farming laws, the budget for increased costs, including Food agency, in place. I can't even remember the amount of money in that material. In turn, there is an increase in the budget of marine farms from 100 million to 200 million that are intended for the economy and that is intended for research, monitoring, and so on. Similarly, the bill of currency is tailored and supported in a way that allows for a substantial amount of money when it reaches the highest level. A senator mentioned, and it does much more than depend on direct costs of monitoring and monitoring. I'll let me say I'm worried. The senator of the funding when it comes to the budget for the coming year because it is a financial programme, is unnecessary if the council takes and finishes these bills. I'm not worried about the funding of the basic research and monitoring that are called behind in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u271	Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I find something interesting that when I've been a reporter in this program, and as a result of listening to the discussion today, I've sometimes got the feeling that this is a bit like those weather prophets licking their finger and handing it up into the wind, they're trying to figure out how the winds are going to blow. I understand that the government can't bring up a financial program that assumes exactly how, for example, it is. There will be a lot of destinations, how many tourists come, which companies go to pieces, etc., but now I hear that the government can't assume which primes it will possibly provide in the near future. The fact is, there is an absolute uncertainty about income and price due to fish farming. The plan also speaks of developing and working environment policies. However, when examined, there was nowhere to be found, not even for the council's information agency, who knows much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u272	A respectable president. It's about the weather prophets. In many respects, though, they are better than those who are sure to lie. The weather forecasters use natural talent, as they say. It is not true that the government does not have the ability, the will, or that it has not provided a bill in that subject and that it does not intend to do in the near future. That's not true. They've both come forward, a professional employment committee is working with them, and I expect them to be made legal in us. Then we'll worry about what we're doing. The senator is able to travel west on the fjord, and he enjoys walking through waste ground, where nothing awaits but a flourishing population and a powerful human life. I expect this, in fact, to trust that the employment committee will remove the fundamental issues so that we will be relieved of the worries of both his relatives and his environment members, who have brought up this case with great anger and I will take the hat above them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u273	A respectable president. On page 104 of the program we will discuss here tonight, with the permission of the President's permission of a 13th team called ◯Gather Road and Fishing, says: The budget is expected to decline from budgets for 2019 to 2024. The decrease was largely explained by the collapse of temporary monopolitan donations by 2019. Other changes to delinquency are explained by the calculated continuation in accordance with the state's financial policy. Then there is the change in the period that temporarily affects costs, including the period 3.2 billion bucks. Due to the construction of a new ocean projector I find this coming cut to be a very risky subject. As a financial programme developed between 2017 and 2021, the Ministry planned to increase these contributions, as increasing fish farm activities required increased monitoring. How, then, can a respected president be that the current minister and ministry are confident that to dwindle away to half a billion per year, while at the same time claiming that both the fishing and the fish supply need a solid scientific foundation to function properly?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u274	A respectable president. The explanation for this 450 billion. K. (See footnote.) (For fully formatted text, see publication) (For fully formatted text, see publication) A candidate gives this point: The second is the budget for building a marine research vessel, which is simply transported from year to year, with 150 million on the other. K. a donation designed to transfer the Habitat Research Institute to a new dwelling in Hafnarfjörður. Both of these are monofocal operations and have nothing to do with longer funding the marine research. You don't take e.g. 150 million to be paid for one move again next year, and so on. This is primarily what's called a single-employment fund that's just falling down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u275	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers I'll take a close look at. It is clear that in the years to come, we must work to promote this sect. Jobs are becoming more diverse through the production of fish farming, and it is necessary to maintain scientific knowledge and to increase it through research, both to ensure the availability of the sector and to ensure permanent environmental protection. Yet, as noted earlier, there should be no additional contributions to research to increase knowledge of the seminary. In fact, all the increases are due to investments in a new ocean study vessel. While I certainly rejoice, it seems that there may be a recession in donations to the company. How should we increase our knowledge if we are living at the same time in a judicial decision? And the environment again. In effect, the sea is the new climate. I'm a big fan of solutions, and I'd rather come with solutions than muffle. That's why I'd like to point out that the Environmental and Resource Ministry and the Marine Department are working together on these things, and maybe remember -- who knows? [[The president calls.]] -... other windows open for research and stuff. Tells you the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u276	A respectable president. Yes, in many respects I believe so. We have, for example. In many respects an excellent cooperation with the Environment Ministry on certain aspects of marine research. I simply see that it will increase as time goes on, e.g. for issues affecting the acidification of the sea and other factors. But I repeat what I've said before here, we suppose, e.g. when talking about ocean research and fishing together, a substantial increase in contributions to research in that field, especially in fish farms. In another bill that I ordered here not long ago, an increase in the research budget of the Environmental Protection Agency, mostly to the Marine Research Institute, is expected from 100 million to over 200 million. The fishing industry is primarily subject to monitoring and monitoring, followed by research. It will be the first year of the second hundred million. K. [[The president calls.]] It is less than planning on a measure of growth in those subjects, although there is never enough to be accomplished, as we discussed in our earlier dealings here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u277	Mr. President. I'm going to be on the same line as those who've been talking to the minister before. First because of the fish fire. I've reached the fishing exit now. I agree that our goals are good and important, and especially for fish, I believe that we make very clear demands, strict demands. We are to be more strict than any other nation, for this involves a measure of wealth. We must have more valuable products if we are to get some sort of foothold on the market. I'd like to know exactly what the aims of the programme are, except that the marine farm environment will increase as sustainable marine water use is being discussed for future fish farms, e.g. In studies of infertile farmed feed. What causes us to push them forward? I've heard the fish farms think it's so far in progress in a new fish farm, whether it's closed coven or unfertilized farm salmon. What can we do to push this trend forward, and where will it take place in our program? Then I would like to encourage a minister and ask him to take care of it this fall in connection with the budget, that we will not be in the same position as we are now at Christmas on the Sea. Whether it was a mistake or not, this is incredibly sensitive, especially at markets for Icelandic products. So I ask a minister in particular to keep his arms around the Oceanographic Institute and encourage it to do so - and that is quite true what he said two years ago, money was placed on hairy research. We have to, let's go. It was hard to hear at this morning's job committee meeting that not all the funding due to surgery had been made. But I believe it is important for a minister to take initiative in maintaining a stronger grip on Merro and trying to push down hairy research, for it is extremely important now that knowledge is no greater than it actually shows about the ecosystem in the sea and its interaction with our fish stocks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u278	A respectable president. Thanks again for asking. Yes, I'll work hard to be with Robin and actually believe that the discussion that took place last year was based on a misunderstanding about what was being done. It was in many ways unnecessary because money for the business is not reduced from year to year. That's the right thing to say. A senator would point out that we need to be better aware that such discussions do not arise. Regarding what is mentioned here about the fish fire and what we can do to contribute more to the factors as well. A senator mentions, aesthetic fish, or closed seashells, in the plan for the currency bill assuming that both, fish on a dry fish, and fish on a seashell, will be without pay. So it will be free of charge, which is a great incentive for that activity during the building phase. I saw this morning's morning paper, rather than yesterday morning, that fish farms in the east are on the way with fire at the Lafflex. So the companies are beginning to feel on these topics, and that's fine. I expect the currency bill, provided it takes place in the recommended form, will further contribute to and strengthen the enterprises in the development work as both fires on dry fish and sealed seashells.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u279	V.E.G. President. FH and I will like to, especially at night, beyond the Valors. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. You're right, it's a pleasure to know that fish farms on Eastern Europe are beginning to take these steps. I wondered, again, about the Marine Research Institute, which is the founder of seas and lakes, whether further growth is needed in the field of fish farming, especially in the building phase we now face in fish farming. We have to be careful about the structure. We must listen to the warning signals we heard on our trip to Norway on a job committee and learn from what the Norwegians did. We're going to build a fish farm. No question about it. But I restate on the fact that the value of our products is high requirements for environmental protection and contact with nature. In this way, we gain greater value than the Norwegians, the Faeroys and other fish breeders. This includes a great deal of interest to us who want to protect the environment but also to the article as such, and I know that it is the highest. A sea chief has ambitions to do things well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-26-84.u280	A respectable president. I'm not gonna get involved in a character between FH and Vals. [[Up front.]] There are others who can handle it. I don't talk about what's going on here in the past. Thank you. Similarly, a member of the council at the end thanks for the discussion that has taken place here. It gives evidence of great interest and ambition in these metal groups. I expect a good cooperation with a body of Congress at the level of the material in which we have so far.
