ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u1	As presented to the chairman of a council earlier this week, a prime committee has approved a meeting on Wednesday, February 27, next week, turning into a committee day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u2	Mr. President. We talked here last night and we talked about it. Ævarsdóttir I used incontrovertible expressions, which I would like from the same chair to pray. A senator's respect. It is so, as we all know, that we should associate with one another in this room with courtesy and respect. In my case, both of them were missing last night. I'll repeat my apology to what? Senator and thank the President for the opportunity to come up here and move this out of this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u3	To answer these questions, financial and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, foreign ministers, educational and cultural ministers, and societal and child - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u4	President. The government and the Supreme Government. A financial minister on her behalf has introduced his input into the labour market situation. The proposals have not been welcomed, at least by agents and the leaders of the labor movement. That caught my attention at the top. For example, a financial minister would be referring to the reinstatement of three tax steps, which he had well explained were a very unfortunate arrangement and in order to complicate the tax system and make it worse, since tax steps were reduced to two recently. It also caught the attention, sort of my surprise, to the highest level. The minister of finance was to speak of the loss of a husband and wife because the independent party had at some point in its course, if I recall correctly, to respect the work at home. But it's done and done, i.e. This announcement of these plans, though of course, has not been implemented and will come to the council to resolve if the government continues to demonstrate its will. I wasn't going to ask about these things, I was going to ask the highest. The secretary of finance, whether it is possible for him to converse with the head of the employee movement and professional drivers on the future financial structure and therefore whether it could become a foundation for some sort of work market agreement, with members, especially from the labor movement, that they were willing to make such negotiations and common plans in order to ensure that the State's contribution is fundamental to the workforce. Even so, there is little better for improving the interest of the public in the country and in the businesses than for healthy financial systems and less growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u5	A respectable president. We're in the week to introduce a tax reduction to the remuneration in the country, so those who work at the lowest pay get the greatest tax burden. I miss what I'm doing. A senator comes up here and says, "Good job, good suggestion. The Kingdom is using the space it has for many years to reach out to the people in the country. That's what I thought it was about. I thought we'd agree that if the government could do something, except cut down insurance and get oxygen into the economy, it should support good employment contracts by allowing oxygen to go there. This would reduce the need for raises, the State would take on a certain share, yield from a tax collected from a government fund. This is what we're doing. What do you think? A senator of this other than discussing some technical exports, such as two or three stages of a system? The function of the system is what really matters. When we cut down the three-stage system, we were dealing with the old system. Now we're changing the system as it is 2019 and we're bringing in a new lower tax level that is most beneficial for people who are in full - time at work. That's what we're doing. I am pleased with the suggestion in this regard. It returns over 80,000 k, apart from what we're doing in child reforms and with a special rise in personality discounts to our homes. This is extremely important. A marriage bond is not over. A personality discount continues to be intermediate, but yes, we are saying that we can sacrifice certain parts from those on the high income tax level and use the next step below to get more results for low wages. We're doing it because we've been listening. Of course, the government cannot be responsible for expectations far beyond what is stated in a financial program and has established meetings. And expectations like that. that the state can yield 20,000 bucks. in income tax of 325,000. A hired man hopes that the state will yield more than it collects because it does not collect 20,000 dollars. in income tax of 325,000. paritaprevir [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u6	President. I'm not at the top of it. I want the secretary of finance to know that he is the one sitting here for answers. I'm the one asking him questions, but a minister comes up here asking me questions and answers questions I didn't ask. I asked the highest. Minister if there was a will with him and according to government experiences, you don't know if it goes together, to converse with the labour market partners on the future development of the financial system. It may be called a national agreement on that basis because it could achieve real dressbacks, and there is a desire within the labor movement to have such discussions. There's a chance, at least. facing governments, to make drastic changes in the Icelandic financial system now so that it works better for the people of the country and for the companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u7	A respectable president. We are in the middle of a discussion on the restructuring of the financial system. I put out the days at the General White Book. We discussed at the council. Hv. There was no room for the discussion. He was not involved in the White Book discussion. I was there to answer questions about the White Book and the suggestions it provides. My opinion is that and it has long been that the responsible economy will bring the most benefits to the homes of the country. Today, government funds receive the lowest interest in the price-separated bond they've ever received. Today, interest in the housing bar is the lowest they've ever been, never lower the experience on the mortgage than it did today. We can continue this course with the responsible economic regime. Reorganizing the financial system is a matter that we set out to do. It is discussed in the White Book, where there are a number of suggestions that the government will implement, and thus move on after an enormous change in financial order, moving on in the process of building a more stable and more reasonable financial system for homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u8	A respectable president. I'm kind of old after I'm the best. The minister of finance thundered over us earlier. He spoke of an oxygen supply to the worst. I don't really know what's wrong with that tube, but at least... It must be oxygen that is badly mixed with an atmosphere that low - paying people here do not want to attract. He's talking about 80,000 bucks. which should be the lowest group in the community in the next four years, about 20,000 k. every year. I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say. It's not like we're talking about, chief. Secretary of the budget, to demand something more for those who fight on the banks. It's talking about minimal justice, minimum fairness. It's just talking about people living here reasonably and getting together between months. We've got a range of 1,1.2 billion here. K. During a month, we decide how the worst people in the community are going to continue to do so. I find it sad to stand here, and I find it sad to see that this refers to a future coldness in the economy. Here, too, there may be exorbitant strikes in the community. What will it cost our community if we cannot better meet those who really need it? I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Why in the world is it always talking about meeting the lowest ones and then letting this so - called taxation pass to those who have nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u9	A respectable president. As we look back six to ten years, the picture is drawn that as a society we have managed to make the provision of those in the lowest income tenets grow faster than the provision of those in the highest revenues. That even appeared to us. In international measurements of Iceland, there is more equation than elsewhere. The proposals that the government is referring to are not just talking about changes in income taxes, a special increase in personality discounts that went into effect during the years but also an increase in social support, such as prolongation of the birthworm that has long been discussed, and the labour market placed great emphasis on it. We will also discuss the spiritual strengthening that has come into play for children's families today. This, of course, must be taken into consideration by isolated examples. For example, a person with two children - less than seven years of age - may be used to increase his income each year about 200,000 dollars. By the administration of the government. I'm sure we can have a long conversation about it here whether it's something that matters, but if it is. A senator wants to go some other way, so he has to point out the route. You cannot come up here and argue that we are not getting results and that you do not have suggestions that are tailored to those at the bottom of the income ladder because these are the suggestions. Then there's probably a lot of people, and it sounds like it. A senator joins in those who believe that teachers, medical staff, people who work around the median pay in the country, are in no good condition. These same people always surface when they're in a desperate struggle and insist that there are dozens of their pay raise, but if these people are supposed to get a little less than 0.5% decrease in tax burden, they're gonna come up with the same people and say, "No, that's not the group I'm fighting for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u10	A respectable president. It's kind of sad if it's the highest. Secretary of finance doesn't understand what I'm talking about. I'm only talking about those here at the lowest level, about those with less than 300,000 dollars. deposited, which will be paid 220,000,200,000.000 dollars. I'm not talking about teachers and orderlies. I'm talking about those who shed the floors under us and those who have low-priced services. I'm talking about workers on the lice that don't make ends meet, and they don't eat their children's plate after the 20th month. I'm talking about that group. The key things here are always used, the clovers and the buypowers, are exactly the key things I find to be the highest. The secretary of finance is to make a small amount of effort, especially the concept of capitalism. It doesn't matter if we pay someone about 100 million if it costs a billion to live. That's a poor business. It is only to talk about reasonableness, to make ends meet, that everyone will be allowed to live with dignity in society and share in the goodness we have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u11	A respectable president. I've been up here a few times this morning to explain why. A member of the body and others in the proposals of the government are tailored to that group. A senator claims to be speaking for himself. The tax load is best for those who are fully involved with just over 300,000 dollars. In these areas, we especially extend the tax reform process so that we can lighten up with those people. There is no way to argue that there is some other feature of the suggestions presented here. Of course we are. A senator concluded that there will be no peace in the community if large groups are left behind. I believe, however, that the senator is wrong when she claims that looking at the others is of no importance. I call attention to the fact that more or less all the collective agreements in this country are free, and it will be important for the teachers, for the medical staff, for all the traders, and for others working all day to fight to make ends meet what the state is going to do for them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u12	Mr. President. Remuneration continues. The news we've received from this week's struggle doesn't give us much more hope that in the next few weeks and months, a large group of employees across the country will seem to be heading for a strike. The situation is very serious. But wage people are not the only people in this country who are fighting for their money. Students in recent years have also lost their battles, but their negotiater has all their life, their future, and their families in his hands, and his students have no right to strike. They are the only ones that without education, this nation becomes more poor in every way, more uniform, poor, and prosperous, and our competitiveness becomes less and more competitive. On Tuesday, the board of directors will publish their new distribution regulations and await students in excess. Will it be possible to continue much longer? Is it possible for them and their families to be educated in the future for all of us? Students are not overly complex or overly complex. They are requiring student loans to provide minimal progress, as well as to have their credit target comparable to those in the North and the more than 930,000 dollars. the current year, which is less and even twice as widely known in the North countries as in Norway and Denmark. So I want to ask the highest. Education Minister: Will the holiday goal be increased, and how much? At the same time, I'd like to ask, is there a plan to take into account the rush of the student's emergency due to a low supply? What's the greatest idea of all? Minister on minimum transfer of students? Can she specify some particular amount of money that she feels normal for students to live on, or do they have to look elsewhere for education?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u13	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I can assure him that the quality and circumstances of students will be improved during the term. In fact, that journey began in March last year when the country's student extension database rose from 92% to 96%. I'd also like to mention, a great deal of joy, that people who have international protection in this country or a patent on the basis of humanitarians also came to the right of student loans, and that was a welcome step in progress, in my opinion. A respectable president. I believe that we need to go further, and we will use ourselves specifically to increase the number of holidays. There is now considerable work to be done at the Ministry of Education and Culture on the part of students. Also, I've been proclaiming a bill about a complete reexamination that comes on autumn days like cot. A senator knows very well. But, yes, we are improving the interests of students, and that is vital because we want their interests to be competitive. There are two factors that guide us when we reexamine the student loan system, namely, that people can go to school regardless of their circumstances, their status, and those of the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The loan fund of Icelandic students is a social equation fund. He was set up to ensure that young people from less wealthy households also have the opportunity to go to education, thus increasing their prospects for future prosperity. Now the Ministry of Health has issued a minimum forwarder, but for some reason the loan fund has decided that the transfer of students is based only on 96% of this, so they are below the minimum, and then it must also be observed that the student's rent loan takes account of only 75,000 dollars. That is, considering that the average rent for a student is 75,000. I'm asking the highest. Minister. Does she know that such a sum can be found somewhere? It's not even possible in students' gardens where only 9% of students have found that this number is completely out of the map. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether it is reasonable to assume that the price for marketing would depend on the housing, not on these numbers, which are completely offline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u15	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator says that there is a need to improve the quality of students, as we are working on it and have been taking it step by step. We left 92% to 96%. Also, I have declared my will to raise the holiday goal. The board will decide on Tuesday, and then we'll see exactly how it all comes out. But it is clear in my mind that we are taking very big steps toward improving the rates of students. Also, we are advancing our entire university, and we are seeing such increases in university levels that we have not seen for a long time. I'm very proud to be in this government and to have the support we're getting to further the education system in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, about the risk of strikes and suggestions to avoid them. We can avoid these disastrous strikes that we are facing. You see, there are very special conditions for politics in the Western world today, where the labor movement in Iceland and the right - eyed financial sector in the Western world agree on tax subsystem changes to prevent a century of strike and dissatisfaction that undermine liberal democracy and, yes, the marketism. That is why the Western financial sector has adopted tax system changes that compete with today's labor movement's demands. This is shown in the August issue of The Economist. The Finnish Times has also provided much suggestions on this subject, but the magazine, which is one of the world's most respected financial journals, published recently with the headline, with the permission of presidents: Populism is the true heritage of the stupid financial system, i.e. The financial collapse. And one of the most prestigious economics magazines in the world, The Economist, suggested in August, as I said, an overall review of the tax system by the 21st century, which deals perfectly with the demands of the labor movement today of tax reforms. The opportunity we have today to prevent the crisis that we face is that the right and left of Iceland are together in the government. The strikes we face were seen and the highest. Secretary of finance and I've been talking about this risk for years, under these teams, unprepared inquiries. So I'd like to ask Bjarni Benediktsson, "How well is she?" Financial ministers study these tax proposals for the Western financial sector and how well they fit in with the local labor movement's tax proposals?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u17	A respectable president. I can agree with many of those things. A senator says, the times are changing, and there is a reason for the situation we observe, the dissatisfaction, the injustice that many experience, and some of it is possible to mirror themselves in the worldwide system. In part, I'd like to mean that we live in a very special situation where we can't reflect examples from outside here and say it's the same value here. I have not considered in any detail the ideas cited. I'd like to, however, mention two things. In general, there is talk of the need for supernovas. In general, it is called a need for administrative action to prevent depositors from being put at risk because of investment banking. I would like to mention that according to the White Book that was presented here a few weeks ago, it is one of the main results that we are in Iceland taxing the Icelandic banking system far beyond what is happening elsewhere, although it may not be related to the goals that are being broken down in the information referred to. I'm looking, however, as if what I hear is what I'm saying. A senator is a man of optimism by nature, over the economic situation. I see little unemployment, I look back in time, and I see the hopeless growth of money years from year to year. We are now standing at this juncture of free agreements, and we ask. A little bright ahead, though, is slowing down the interest rate. We have achieved tremendous success in improving the standard of living. Is the situation now calling for concrete? To me it's not, but it's possible that people can see it in a very different way. What worries me is how much still lives in some groups of anger and the experience of injustice, with the tremendous success that has been achieved in a short period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u18	Mr. President. I can review what ASI said yesterday. It says: It seems that in addition to the change, such as recording of a high income tax, a fiscal tax, an increase in income taxes, or a resource use fee, the government does not intend to support other government income institutions. The change will therefore mean that there will be less provision for decisive improvements, e.g. in the welfare and transport systems. It speaks of high income taxes and the increase in capital taxes. This is exactly what The Economism of total reevaluation of the tax system by the 21st century shows that it is necessary to move more on to a pressible income tax, even a negative income tax, where the government will throw you out if you don't meet the minimum limit. Yes, this is what The Economist is talking about because this is the way it is, because we are faced with such extreme circumstances and dissatisfaction. Is the pleasure justified here in Iceland? There's talk of power of money. It grew, and it is true; it increased most in the other income; it is eaten up by raising rent. The rent has gone up at the same time, double, so the situation is worse for so many, so it's the basis for dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u19	A respectable president. That's right, if I've understood the leadership of ASI correctly, then it's the first time in history that it's a universal tax proposal. I'm not quite sure if there's a complete agreement on the proposals in all of the Member States, but that may not matter. Here's a word. Senator that we should have a prosthesis tax system. We have a very prosthesis tax system. There's talk about higher capital gains in the North countries, but that's not all there is, because there's a very large area of access from a general high percentage. And a recent report that I have made in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to compare with the capital tax system in the North countries leads to the conclusion that we are in all majorities with a comparable capital tax system. It is true, however, that there are underlying reasons, such as rent, that there are now some factors. A senator mentioned, and there I want to say that in recent years the state has been taking a big step, especially in the social tenement, and that the rural communities have to take responsibility for that condition, especially in the capital, where there has been a huge shortage of the right type of apartments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u20	Mr. President. There is no need to have many comments about the more serious situation that exists in a hearty discussion for a while, and it aims to break up the discussion today. It's a bit sad to see the government's response and corruption in these matters. This government work was not established on a massive project. That's what we've got to see. But for some reason, the government decided to sit in the driver's seat at a time when it was a choice and has gone to great extent in their declarations that no government has found with the labour markets more often in order to solve debates, that no government has put more on the table than this government, and so on. We've got a meeting and a meeting with the labour market, and it's time for the day when the government plays out its play. It turns out to be a real blank. Now, in itself, I'm not going to minimize the tax issues presented there. They're about a lot of interesting things. But it can also be said that there are many opportunities to do better to reach out to the groups that are most likely to be involved in these fights, i.e. and the smallest groups, and how to solve the knot in which the brasen speech is come. On the other hand, it is a responsibility for the government to act in this way in such delicate matters as the quarreling is. It's not the government's job to solve a fight. You might, therefore, ask the highest question. Secretary of finance, who grinned this: What will he do to solve the knot that the government has created in the dispute?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u21	V.E.G. President. I don't really know what to say when SA's former manager comes up here and complains that the government has been listening too much to the job market, has held all too many meetings, and it's a serious matter to try to study the situation, to listen to the whole thing. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But what did this conversation bring? We raised unemployment benefits last year. We listened to the workforce's emphasis on our implementation, the tax system changes that went into effect during the New Year's season with a special rise in child improvement and an increased personality discount. We set out work to analyze the need for housing and to work with the workforce. We recommended a solution to the problem, and they have been welcomed. The first purchase group is now going to return, etc. It matters. However, we haven't had a conversation, and it's like what we're doing. A senator thinks we've had a conversation. We've never said we had a big talk. We've had the whole market in front of us, not just the ones who are now with the statesmen. We've been urging that national interest advice would be induced to allow a flow of information between governments, labour markets, and credit banks on national scale and the underlying tensions that sometimes burst out. I think it matters. However, there is a grain of truth in that the government is not to suggest that it is going to solve the matter. Neither did she. She never has. The government has said that it would be essential for her access to individual matters, e.g. for housing purposes, for someone to come to a conclusion during the feast. It is called for implementation of tax proposals that we previously said we were going to implement and appear in a financial program. I'm sure that's the one to report it, because there's a financial plan around the corner, the next one for the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u22	Mr. President. I'm not surprised to hear it. A minister didn't know what to say. It seems exactly that in all these meetings the government did not listen very carefully, because looking at the responses to the tax laws played out here does not require any genius to see that this is not what was asked of the labor movement to solve the struggle. With good intentions, these suggestions could have been carefully implemented in a way that made them play better into the release of the saunas, but the problem seems to be that the government at all these meetings was not listening to what was being said to her. At the same time, the expectation of some awesome play would solve the knot, but it proved to be a small change. I find these matters tragic to be kept on the part of the government, I must say for the moment, but I certainly hope the government is open to the thought that there may be the scope here to use for the tax doctors I celebrate, and to implement the suggestions the government has offered in a different way so that they will play better in their dress-off talks than the real witnesses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u23	A respectable president. This is only to become this classic conversation in which a person wants to have a heart-to-heart conversation in part at the Senate hall and at all times is to make judgments about the government and its performance and whether he or she was listening or not to listen. Hv. A senator has found that the government was not listening. But could it be that those sitting on the other side of the table were not listening, that their expectations were from all rhythms compared to what was said, the information that has been published? What else should you say when you have had the expectation that the state would reduce the taxes by 20,000 dollars? of 325,000. pay, but the government doesn't have 20,000 bucks. on income tax? What else can you say but that you do not understand how your systems work and misunderstand what the State can offer to those on the pay ladder? And how remarkable is it, in fact, when it's the communities that take about 80% of these people's local tax dollars across the line as viewers at all of this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the great support this bill receives at the council. I'm very happy about it. I worked hard with the police and the Women's Hospital, and I'd like to thank you for your cooperation. What these changes do is strengthen the position of people who face violence, harassment, and peace disorders. It is very enjoyable that by doing this, we make a restraining order a more insurance policy rather than a forced process, change it, and change it on the other hand, a restraining order and a home evaporation. This should be considered if a restraining order needs to be gained, since breaking the restraining order appears to be inexpensive 30 times more than talking on the phone at the wheel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u25	V.E.G. President. This may not be a big step we're doing here, but it's important, and it's figuratively for only free, open and modern Iceland. Let's bear in mind that Iceland stands out there among the Norse states. I think it's desirable that we try to look to the Norwegian states in a variety of ways, including When it comes to each job, it is available to the government at a time. In Sweden, Denmark, Norway, and Finland, people can obtain jobs that have the right to work, not to be viewed as ethnic groups. This is a step that leads us toward what the Norwegian countries have on these matters. This is a good step. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u26	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to the name of the private secret office on Article 894, case No. 541. By means of the bill, the simple change is made so that the name of the private secret office will be changed to the Compulsory Office. In addition, the laws of various special laws are suggested to be changed in the light of this change of name. In Iceland, the patent agency conducts the affairs of industrial intellectual rights. The role of the Agency is to deal with matters relating to patents, brands, design protection, markets and other comparable rights laid out in law, regulations and international agreements for the protection of industrial rights. You should also provide information to individuals, organisations and companies as well as advice on industrial brain rights. Furthermore, the Agency should contribute to the availability of new technology and knowledge in written mental rights for the public. The title of the private secret office simply does not give a clear picture of the Agency's activities as it refers only to a single form of industrial mental rights. In view of the role of the Agency, the pledge has been too narrow in reference to actual activity. Then the name of the private secret office can be misleading to clients and other stakeholders where it suggests that the Agency is strictly exclusive in matters despite the general involvement of the activities and responsibilities of the Agency. It is important that an institution which handles these matters ensures that all professions are done as high as any other subject and that its name does not show any special emphasis on one field above another. It is also in line with what was set up in a mind - working policy introduced by the then industrial and commercial minister in 2016 by the name "Administrative Policy" 2016-022, a mental right as a business tool and a valuable value. The aim of the policy is Iceland's software drive in 2022, and this vision is presented in its policy as well as providing information about their rights, their importance and possible protection measures and a plan for the next five years. The bill does not affect the Agency's administration. If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to have any effect on the survival of a government fund. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u27	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a commitment and pollution law, the handling of wastes and the treatment of fires and the protection of natural fires, especially government fines. The main element of the bill is a more efficient tool to ensure that the laws on the method of loyalty and pollution and the handling of waste are implemented. It is important, then, that business partners are prevented from benefiting from not complying with the regulations of the law. It is therefore urgent that such offenses be applied. However, the most efficient way to comply with the laws of the law is not in all cases fines or other laws set by police or courts. By taking up the authority of the government, which supervises the implementation of the law, to impose administrative fines, it is better to ensure that the authorised operator is legally subject to law. Such sources are expected to have a warning effect, as well as the person who has been granted control guilty for certain business abnormalities are more likely to follow the law on the future. In addition to the above, there are several changes to the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention taking into account the experience of their implementation. Only more government fines. The bill suggests that the EEA has the authority to lay down administrative guiltys against the laws on loyalty and pollution control and waste management laws. Government guiltys include a criminal penalty against law violations and will generally be applied only to serious offenses. The bill suggests that the administrative fines of certain offenses, such as working without a license, should be submitted. It is important that the implementation of administrative guiltys be coordinated and therefore it is suggested that only the Agency have such authority. Clearly, the Agency has a wide range of knowledge and experience that is useful in making such decisions and has to form a source on the basis of chemical laws for the application of government guilty. There are laws on loyalty and pollution prevention that allow a minister to give temporary leave of the leave of a work permit. This document has been new even. when an earlier work permit has expired during a renewal application for the treatment and therefore before a new license can be published. As a result of increased effectiveness, it is suggested that the candidate be allowed to temporarily extend the work permit while a new job permit is being performed, all the available data is received by application. This bill suggests a change in the obligation of the operator to return green accounting. If the bill is legalized, certain operators will be required to report specific information to the EEA every year, including on emissions of pollutants from each work station and about raw use. The objective is to obtain better and more detailed information from these operators to provide better and more significant information on the emissions and raw use of the land. It is also the goal of integrating and streamlining information from operators to the government. The bill suggests that a health - care committee may decide to hide the health - care director and certain health - care organizations a warrant for the complete payment of the cases in individual language categories. Such decisions, however, will be subject to the approval of local governments. It is then suggested that a medical committee be assigned to publish an annual electronic report on their activity. For the purpose of increasing clarity in the bill there are some adjustments to the wording of the laws on the method of loyalty and pollution that require forced disposal. Then it is proposed to the highest financial level of day - to - day gain and not to fail in spite of the challenge to fulfill its duties in the future. It is aimed at increasing the impact of day-to-day benefits as the operator is more likely to take action to improve the risk of failure and payment. The bill proposes the change in commitment laws and pollution prevention in the preparation of rural records that do not need to obtain the report of the relevant health care committee. Hide local laws in which there is a specific double requirement for reimbursement made by a health committee and therefore no need for a local government to submit the proposal to a health care committee. These are proposed to change the EEA's currencies and health committees, which include increased clarity. The bill of this also suggests some minor changes in law due to other laws, which have taken effect after taking in a law of loyalty and pollution control. These laws have led to the need to correct legal references and to clarify expressions. Finally, in the bill, one change in fire management laws and defenses is proposed to reflect a recent change in the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention of registration. According to the Ministry Department, the bill will not result in a costly impact on government funds. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of the environment to deliver this case and to believe that there are many things that can improve, and there is a need to be discussed at the council's scene. This is a step that involves the idea that a government agency is entrusted with vaster power to use criminal penalties. It is never quite possible, so I assume that it will be reviewed on the committee in which cases it is necessary and desirable. It's the same with the wiretap. Government institutions of various kinds have authority to use administrative guiltys, but it is not in itself possible to say that there is a general rule. Of course, that will depend on the circumstances in each case and on each subject. I do not intend to question that there may be grounds for the EEA to be authorized to use administrative guiltys, but I do believe that there is a need to be taken from the Committee on the grounds of the legislation in this respect and possibly carried out. A quick reading of the bill contained a few things that I can see in my eyes that I feel are caused. The Environment and Transport Committee needs to be reviewed, except for the basic questions about the EEA's guilt rights. One is when such penalties are inserted into legislation, a clear penalty warrant for judicial hearings must be set aside. We have examples of this in other areas in recent years that it has not been in the past that it has not already been called upon to legalize criminal laws or penalties at the administrative level. It's a point that needs to be considered. In the same way, there is a difference between what we can call coercion measures, such as daylight and the like, and the personal government fines. The forcedness talk is intended to force the relevant person to move his activity to the point that it is in accordance with the law and their duties in other ways. There are, in turn, laws that apply to the use of means of forcedness. On the other hand, the exercise of government is the decision of a penitentiary, a somewhat different, and in itself a more delicate area, such as anything that attracts the penalty and needs to be approached in a careful way how the lawgiver handles it. I wondered about that relationship, including. of what is stated here, that it is really assumed that in spite of a person's obligation to do so, fines will not fall away. It's a question of how it's over. It's not unknown in the law. I remember some examples of the way this sort of thing is handled, but maybe that's how it's been done, at least. In this regard, care must be taken to ensure that daylight has a purpose as a pricing strategy, but in itself it is not a punishment for any offense. They need to be taken care of. But when I was considering this matter, what really hit my eyes, there were regulations 9 and 11. In terms of reimbursement or sources, other health committees and the EEA, to collect expenses. The institutions, on the basis of legal qualifications, are permitted to collect services, and this is likely to be the required amount of services required by the law. But I'm putting questions with them on the 9th and 11th. which are in line with the follow-up and the application of forcedness measures and, on the other hand, the pressures of government fines. For if the Law text is considered as it should be in the bill, it can be understood that the Agency, whether it is health care or the EEA, can collect services for the application of pedricing measures, i.e. An agency decides to set a day's fine, or according to cases of government fines, which are then laws against crime. I wondered: Is it not new in Icelandic legislation that a service fee can be collected for this? I don't make a comment on a permit release or a check-in or anything like that. I feel a little special, and I expect the committee to review it with experts how it fits into the system in other ways. I'm not gonna have any more comments about this bill at this point. I don't have a seat. The Environment and Transport Committee, but I assume that the details of the warrants for the use of criminal legislation will be examined. That the clearness of the rules they are under will be examined and people will wonder if the output contained here, including In terms of remuneration, special collections of services for the application of forcedness and criminal negotiations, that the Commission will be consulted in good cooperation with the Ministry and other experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for his input here and agrees that the committee examined these points. But the right to respond to the charge is, in fact, trying to activate the so - called pollution laws, i.e. The person who has some interference with the law pays for the resulting administration. This is something that the committee can consider with us in the Ministry, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u30	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill of 233nd change. a general penal law, no. 19/190, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that the law will become tight and the protection of freedom of expression at the same time expand in this country. Code 233. gr. a general penalties say that anyone who publicly ridicules, slanders, taunts, or threatens a person or a group of people with talk or expression, such as by images or symbols, by ethnic symbols, by color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or by gender, should be punished or imprisoned for as long as two years. The bill I now recommend is suggested that the conduct described in the law will not be punished unless it is designed to encourage or fuel hatred, violence, or discrimination. For a discussion of the origin of 233 C.E.r. a in a report in a somewhat thorough manner, but I think it's right to skim at that level. Initially, this law came into the penal code in 1973 in support of Iceland's validation of the United Nations Convention on Deletion of All Racism. The law has changed several times since then, particularly in the direction of strengthening the protection of individuals within the group and also in terms of sexual orientation and sexual awareness. It was then an initial declaration of the law, so it was based on an attack on a group of people, but this description of action was later adopted to harmonize with the use of other Norwegian regulations. In this change, there was no meaningful change, as stated in law data at the time. The law on the media has to do with the prohibition of hatred and, as it says, encouragement to punishable behavior. In December 2017, Iceland's Supreme Court proposed three excerpts on matter of 233.g. a general penal law as it is now. All cases in favor of a resolution adopted by the town government of Hafnarfjörður agreeed with the Coalition '78 of gay education in the local community's basic schools. One case was acquitted, but the other two judged and judged to pay a hundred thousand dollars. fine in the state fund. These convictions have called for ideas on the terms of this article, 233 C.E. a, and in itself a review of it for freedom of expression and the right to express their views, how pathetic or stupid they may be. This type of legal arrangement must be considered in the setting of Article 233. a General penal law has a close connection to an order 65. g. The Constitution, as well as the privacy protected by a 71 st. The constitution and 8th par. European Convention of Human Rights. In contrast with the rights described there, however, the right to freedom of expression stands. He's insured at 73rd. The constitution and 10th paragraph. European Convention of Human Rights. Freedom of speech will be restricted only by law for the sake of a universal order or by the security of the state for the protection of human health or moral standards or by the rights or reputations of others, as it is necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. Clearly, the current law of 233 C.E. a general penalties are consistent with the freedom of the Constitution, as the Supreme Court has stated this in no uncertain terms. Then I'll show them even. to the judgments I mentioned earlier. On the other hand, the Constitution and the European Convention do not require the extent to which the wording of the law involves and, in particular, the European Union's European Member States have a clear scope to establish such a narrower course. Also, from the European Court of Human Rights it can be noted that outstanding comments or reports of potentially hateful propaganda, as some have mentioned, are generally considered, not to be a violation of the terms of the covenant, but to be in violation of Article 10. His freedom of expression. With 233 st. a general penalties have gone far into the limit of freedom of expression, and actually far beyond what is needed to protect the groups involved in the declarations of hatred. It cannot be overlooked in the fact that the penalty is up to two years in prison. That's why I suggest the change that behaviour as 233. gr. a Only controlled by punishment would it be necessary to encourage or fuel hatred, violence, or discrimination. The former, inciting hatred, violence, or discrimination, includes the essence of the expressions that are intended to limit hatred speech. At the same time, it must be counted as an incentive for violence to the most serious offenses against the law that will be judged as more punishment. As for the latter, to fuel hatred, violence, or discrimination, such behavior requires a measure of severity. There must be an obligation to promote such factors, i.e. leading to hatred, violence, or discrimination, or spreading it. A definite or repetitive expression to the very being of the arrangement would likely meet that requirement. On the other hand, isolated comments would generally not reach that level alone and would qualify to fuel hatred, although this is not, of course, ruled out by a very gross expression that bears witness or is part of the natural spread of hateful ideas. When it is determined whether this severity level is achieved, the purpose of the expression is meaningful, i.e. whether he must have felt that he was endeavoring to promote hatred, violence, or discrimination, or whether the purpose of expression was different, e.g. A sense of humor or an official social talk. The status of a person who expresses himself may also matter, and under what circumstances he expresses himself. Thus, a person who has some special position in the community, has some authority, e.g. whether the comment is given in a highly widespread media medium or in a civilian that has become sudden or untransvised in a network of comments. As a result, it is likely that the language of the former, e.g., would be likely to be expressed. In some position of authority, it would be more likely to fuel hatred than the speech of the latter, as its persuasive power may be greater. However, it should also be kept in mind that any form of expression or authority must also be admitted to those in positions of authority. True, they too can become quick - moving like the common citizen. The proposed change by bill involves a great tribulation on the 233nd Psalm. a general penal law so that there is more to be done to punish the penalty as it is now. But still, and it's important that I bring it here, the active protection will be at hand, and in full accordance with the laws of the rights of our legislation and the international commitments we have handled in this area. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion. General and educational committees for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u31	A respectable president. First, I would like to ask what the purpose of this bill is. You wonder at this time, at social media, and on the Internet, whether the freedom of expression to the public is somehow impaired in modern society, when it comes to various forms of hatred, nudity, stigma, or slander. What is the reason for government, government, or government? At this time, a minister of justice is moved to make changes in penalties, a bill for changing penalties, and to reduce the protection of those who are best protected from abusive speech. There are two kinds of hate crimes. We must understand their nature. On the one hand, we are talking about some form of violence or pressure, and on the other hand, we speak of hatred in which hatred and abusive speech is expressed. We have decided to protect certain social groups, and we have extended it over time according to what happens in the North and European countries. Just because we believe that a particular group and certain individuals are in such a position that they need additional protection. In the past, only physical violence was subject to punishment, but it was changed because of a reason. And what's the situation in the North countries that we like to follow? Yes, we are doing this in the opposite direction to what is common in the North countries. This protection has been expanding, increasing, increasing, increasing the number of people under it. This is what has been said about improving disabled persons into this group that needs this protection, even the elderly, but this is where we are going to squeeze it not only to be hateful speech but also to cause the words to encourage and fan the flames of hatred, violence, or discrimination. Hence, it is no longer enough to insult, ridicule, and slanderers. Rather, it is now necessary to show that the person's words encouraged further violence against those groups. On the contrary, the European Commission against racial prejudice and intolerance, as well as the SE rights office, has been encouraging the Icelandic government and calling for its general legal punishment of a form of criminal hatred. If a person offends against penalties, and if it is thought that the reason is somehow linked to hate crime, that it is because of physical appearance, race, sexual orientation, or any particular protection, there is a punishment. The European Commission and the European Human Rights Office of ESE have thus been asking that these groups be protected by the Icelandic government. But the government in Iceland decides to go in the opposite direction and narrow this protection now when the Internet is wide open. The freedom of expression is indeed difficult, but it will be watched as freedom, i.e. The freedom of one individual to say anything, to tolerate social groups, to use caste classes, to exploit those in some way who are in perpetuate, and that it does not impair a person's right to live a good life without being under attack. It has been shown that the '78 UN laid e.g. past ten counts of hatred at gay people when queer instruction was to be done at the high school of Hafnarfjörður. The police in the capital area dropped everything. So it is not as if the system of justice has been filled with these matters so far. It's been pretty hard to get these things through, and so have those who have searched for the rights of those who are from a foreign background, who have been able to put on the Internet and at certain radio stations. Nor have they been able to seek the rights of those whom they have tried. In fact, the district attorney sent it back to the police office and eventually two cases were judged in the Supreme Court - two out of ten cases. So I'm not sure that we need to worry that freedom of expression is impaired by those people who themselves choose to go public, we are not speaking of at home, but openly speak of their hatred, wickedness, slander against certain groups that are somehow in my own way. We're talking about groups like queer people. We're talking about people of foreign origin. We are talking about people who believe in a certain religion. Is it normal today, when we see in the Western world that extreme views against certain minorities are growing tremendously, that the government is going to go in the opposite direction and will provide these groups with less right and less protection? I can't figure out why we're at this place, why we've chosen in 2019 when the Internet is wide open, when we hear that a store clerk is being attacked for being different in color than the average American citizen, when a very popular and powerful basketball player is being attacked at the airport. We hear about this almost every day. But the Icelandic government will decide to expand this authority to attack other people, with ignominious expressions of hatred. Because it is not merely an attack on the clerk or the basketball player or the queer person. The whole group is under attack. They're driving the whole team to the edge. People we have decided long ago are being scraped off, decades ago told us that there is a need for protection by law just to prevent the abuses that had been tolerated. The review of Iceland's European Court of Human Rights, then, tells us just how this legal bill works at this time. It also discusses how this will be carried out, how the charge, and those investigating penalties will stand, in the opinion that certain practices may be induced or fueled by hatred, violence, and discrimination. How will that be evaluated? What will the prosecution do to appreciate that hatred speech is being promoted? Because the defense will always be: I'm just saying what I think. I'm not urging anyone else to do anything. It is obvious that this will be done so that it will wide open to all forms of hate speech. According to Iceland's Human Rights Office, the above expression is: A hatred speech, as defined in the 233rd paragraph. a penalties, always designed to encourage or fuel hatred, violence, or discrimination. The EIC believes that by making this change in the penalties, the law is being complicated, making it more difficult to follow the offenses, for the evidence will be very complex. I cut by the highest. The minister mentioned here and mentioned that those in positions of authority need to be further evaluated whether by word of mouth they were encouraging hate of some sort, fueling hatred, violence, or discrimination because, in the power of power, it was a source of encouragement, possibly. I think I can say well with the highest. Ministers of authority need to be more careful how they choose their words. You wonder, " Can I get even more involved when it comes to seeking justice for individuals in these minority groups? ' Whether the crime has been watered down, the crime has been legalized, agreed that you can actually do any kind of hate speech, music, slander, innuendo, under the pretext that you are merely expressing your opinion, not to encourage others to act. I have to say, I'm very worried about this bill and I'm seeing and hearing from the people who have worked in this field that they are worried, such as. former police officer, Eyrún Eyþórsdóttir, who now teaches in police studies at the University of Akureyri. She has come out and expressed great concern. She was the police officer in Iceland who dealt with this very case. She knows him better than anyone. I have not only seen an interview with her but also an article after her, where she is deeply concerned about this bill and wants the government to squeeze it and actually enrich and make it easier for a hate speech in Iceland. I agree with her, and I also agree with the review of Iceland's Human Rights Office. I think in the modern world, in 2019 of Iceland, we need to do just the other way in the other part of the North countries, to increase the protection of minorities, not to blunder the system to increase the rights of those who want to vomit their hatred.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u32	Mr. President. Over a year ago, the three government groups joined in their government covenant to promise to put Iceland in the best order of gay people. V.E.G. The prime minister has presented a bill on sexual autonomy, where there are certainly a number of long - awaited improvements. I'm not going here, and now I'm going to reenact what you can do better on that bill, it's certainly something, but most of it is an improvement. But like the first day, the government's right hand ignores what its left is trying to do. Now, the Minister of Justice has provided a bill to squeeze into the current legal law of hate speech. The uncooperative urge to make this change seems to be the Supreme Court, where men were sentenced to hate speech against the Council of '78 after the Hafnarfjörður town had made a deal with the community of queer education in the basic schools of the town. This bill has long explained why a minister feels that it is necessary to press on to present - day expressions of hatred. That report is an excellent summary, for although it may not have been planned, it confirms that there is no - at all - no reason to change the law, and it is surprising why this bill is presented. One of the highest courts that seemed to have encouraged the highest order. Ministers to change include: stated that the accused of the case are guaranteed freedom of expression by 2 mg. 73st. The constitution, but contrary to his rights, stands for homosexual rights. Starting by President's permission: ...to enjoy as much as other privacy on the basis of 1st. 71. g. The constitution, as well as equal and human rights applies to others regardless of their sexual orientation. The Supreme Court of this court stated that regulations 233 apply. a in penalties would not only be necessary and compatible with democracies but would also be accompanied by conformity to national legislation and would be adopted by Iceland's approved international institutions to promote an equalizing of people in this respect and, in addition, provide equal protection. Starting by President's permission: ▪ The Lawgiver does not simply have the obligation to set laws in such a way that freedom of expression is not restricted to a greater degree than space according to the requirement of 3 mg. 73st. The constitution. The Lawgiver is also obliged to secure by the law of human privacy, miss. 1.mg. 71. g. It also contributes to the protection of those who are at risk because of their circumstances or characteristics of widespread hurt or hostility, thereby taking care of a universal rule. In view of these interests, which include 233rd pars. a general penalties are set to protect, they will be by democratic tradition and, according to a general assessment of all incidents, to weigh the greater than undisputed freedoms of the accused to express their views in the way he did. At the same time, it is taken full consideration that his freedom of expression will not be restricted to a greater degree than necessary to achieve the legitimate goal of 233rd. a general penal law is heading for, but the rules of that law must be considered necessary in the sense of 2 mg. 73st. The constitution to help deal with prejudice, hatred, and contempt toward certain social groups that could be promoted by abusive speech. The current penal law on hate speech has nothing to do with the Supreme Court. It knows that there are interests that outweigh human freedoms to express their opinion in a prejudiced manner and to show a distasteful attitude toward social groups. I've only mentioned a hate speech against queer people, which is the highest. A minister talked about it in his report, and it was impossible to find out that these judgments, nearly exclusively, are fundamental to this planned change. However, the judicial law is intended to protect much more groups, so it is also for ethnicity, color, race, religion. And in many countries, countries that we would like to travel with are being expanded to expand this definition even more closely. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir came in earlier. I'm sure now we agree on that, me and the highest. Minister of Justice, that freedom of expression is one of the cornerstones of a democratic society, but we must also want to resist a hate speech that is actually aimed at working against the freedom of the freedom of the perimeters and we both know it, me and the highest. Minister, that the freedom of each individual goes no further than the freedom of the next man. V.E.G. Minister of Justice says the purpose of the bill is to increase the protection of expression freedom in this country. It is fundamental, however, that freedom of expression is strengthened by a tribulation on the law of hate speech. There is nothing that calls for such a change. Such a change is not beneficial for any Icelandic society there is. A hate speech is a prelude to violence. It has proved itself repeatedly, and we have nothing to do with the form of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to first mention a fine talk. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, who was very careful about how many subjects are considered on this touch surface of freedom of expression and the privacy of the people for hatred speech. This is a matter of fundamental rights. Clearly, when people feel that they are heading in the wrong direction, they are reflected in the fact that we have already received a fairly detailed report from some sources who are concerned, such as. Taken in '78. That is how we should respond. We are to listen not only to those who are prejudiced in the community but also to listen, as mentioned, to the people who work on the earth, who have experience in applying the law we have had, and who may have some other view of how we should change it, in order to achieve more fully the goals we want to achieve. It was named Eyrún Eyþórsdóttir, who for some years studied in a hate crime within the police in the capital area, and there's an experienced bank that I think a General and Education Committee should look in very much. This is a fixed tape between different fundamental rights, which the Board of Generals and Education needs to consider a little detail, I would think, in order to reach the goals we would like to achieve. I think we also need to find out which groups fall below. Here's why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir to protect the disabled and the elderly had been interviewed in our neighboring countries. It can be pointed to a law adopted last year on equal treatment in a labour market where there is a list of differential variables other than in this penal code. It is only natural to consider this in context because, in time, it changes as a lawgiver, it is considered to be minorities that are subject to social violence. When 233. gr. a Stepping into the penal code allowed us to have a different understanding of these matters than last year when we agreed on equal treatment in the labour market. I may mention a bill delivered by Una Hildardóttir, a deputy of the left green, along with the one listed here and anyone else to add the terms of sexual expression, gender characteristics, and sexual awareness to 233.g. a in the penalties. There's something we should seriously look at in the General and Education Committee so we can get a little better around the stage. Then there's a group that may not have a place in this law, I don't know it, but we have to somehow start dealing with women, half people, because we're talking about the makings of social media and the free expression of people in the public space, that expression is different from that of men, all equally, it's harder and less important. It may not fall under the abusive speech, but we need to find some way to cope. No matter what group we are dealing with, no matter how serious the issue is, hatred is there. It is then an infectious disease that spreads. And if he is allowed to remain uncontaminated in the community for too long, if not addressed, so that the community learns to stop using hatred when it expresses itself, we will not reach the goals we want to reach. I see that we in the General and Education Committee have a huge job to cover the important points of view that are under and that I'm pretty excited to deal with it because these are the principles that are of great importance and we need to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members who have participated in this interesting discussion, I allow me to say that this is interesting and needs a lot of discussion. I'm expecting you to be very well treated here at the council. It is not the first time that this matter occurs before the council. Of course, the freedom of speech and its boundaries have been discussed from time to time over the years, perhaps especially in later years. We are living in a changed period of time from what used to be. Everyone's got a voice, and I think most of the new technology is gonna make it possible for everyone to express themselves anywhere and at any time. But at the same time, there has been a trend that I consider a little thought - provoking but also negative, i.e. that at the same time, the patience of people for the opinions of others paralyzes. That's what worries me. This may be in the very light that the Council agreed on here, actually in 2010, to put the government in order to try to put Iceland into the first place when it comes to freedom of expression. Thereafter, governments in many parts of the administrative system were started to investigate these issues as a whole. Although I do not agree with this concierge or since then, I do not necessarily agree that Iceland's goal is to stand out from other countries in terms of protection, e.g. good people and such things, however, started in 2010. I'd like to mention it during the discussion, because people have been wondering about the origin of this bill, that followed by the so - called minister of education, a group that examined these matters very carefully. The group even consisted. by journalists, scholars, and members of Parliament. The results of the group were that the article on this matter had to be changed, 233. gr. a penalties, for freedom of expression. That was the suggestion of the group. Last year, the current prime minister appointed a team to consider freedom of expression in an even greater context. This law was discussed with a group that included a group of individuals. A professor of law at the University of Iceland, a representative of Iceland's Journalist Society, lawyers and other professionals in the field of human rights. It was also the conclusion of the group at 233 C.E. a Penitentiary might be appropriate for a review. In fact, the group suggested the adjustment to the council, i.e. this is how the adjustment is made. That's a little different from the previous task force I mentioned earlier, which was from the Ministry of Education a few years ago, concluded. All of a sudden, the point of view is that one needs to consider that freedom of expression is not tailored to the narrowness of a person's preconceived views, which may even be disastrous, miserable, leading, and potentially damaging to someone, that at least one person is at least one of the worst. No punishment for such things. Freedom of expression is a basic human right that I think everyone in Iceland will certainly agree to be a guardian. It's not like that in every country. In many lands freedom of expression is trampled on. Freedom of speech is a basic human right, and it is not just a matter of protecting a person's viewpoints that fall on good soil; it is also about protecting him to say what he wants to say and to have a view and to put it on social discussions, even if they fall on rocky soil. So it is with others who have other viewpoints to participate in and discuss this discussion. Of course, it is not a goal in itself to protect the freedom of expression, but freedom of expression is also motor power. Displaying viewpoints and opinions is essential to progress. I've heard fighters for homosexual rights in the United States, e.g. in the 1960's and 1970's, pointing out that it would not have been to their advantage to close up a discussion like this. In this way, hurtful discussions about certain social groups have often been a force for progress. You must not overlook that. A case such as before was made known. The senator's purpose in terms of some debate would be to resist prejudice. I strongly doubt that prejudice is opposed by suppressing discussion, no matter how stupid it may be, but often contrary, as mentioned earlier. Finally, I want to say that I have this bill, and it is my attitude and, quite definitely, all of those involved, to consider these matters in the context of the freedom of expression and human privacy that we also need to protect. A damaging comment may violate a person's personal life, but in the course of such a change, it is not in any way encouraging undistracted discussion or minimizing how hurtful it may be. At the same time, this may be an occasion to encourage careful discussion, to a moderate and perfunctory discussion, and to use it for this. Although there is one of the Supreme Court that has been discussed here, claiming that the person could have acted his words in a different way, and most of us can do so, there are also people who cannot, who cannot measure their words as we do in this room, trying to make all equals. So there are various viewpoints to be taken into account, and I expect that is the case. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is doing it. I look forward to a good cooperation with the council on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u35	Mr. President. I cut by the highest. Overwhelmed by the overwhelming patience of others, a minister of justice tolerated his anxiety. We are not here talking about the innocent opinions of others, for the discussion of a law, with the permission of a president, reads: ▪ Anyone who is publicly slandered, threatened, threatened, or mocked by a person or a group of people with talk or expression, such as by images or symbols, by ethnic groups, by color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or by gender, or by means of which guilt or imprisonment should be extended up to 2 years... Mr. President. Here we are not talking about some innocent exchange. There is no such thing as the law of integrity, nothing at all. We are talking about someone who publicly ridicules, slanderers, taunts, or threats to a man or a group of people by their remarks. You see, words can hurt far more than physical violence. An abusive speech will not only hurt the person who happens to be, but the whole group - the whole group that is exposed to the abusive speech. You see, that's the way it is. So it is that a certain group, part of which the individual suffers from hatred, is being embalmed. It is that group, the minority, who may have been strong, because it was referring to women, but it has been decided that these groups will have to be protected. [[The president calls.]] It is incomprehensible in my opinion that we have decided to reduce that protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u36	A respectable president. I mentioned my view that the patience of people toward the opinions of others was a paradox. It's going in different directions and every direction, apparently. Social media is the focus of mental illness. If one makes a preposterous opinion, there is no man's skin on yet more preposterous opinions in an effort to blow it. We all know how it works. I'm just saying it in general, not particularly about this arrangement. And I'm not referring to the fact that this law is a special doctrine. It's clear how they put it. I mentioned in my introduction that originally this law was said to be: 'Counsel or human'; it was carved out, and now it's said, '-'- '- '- '- '-'- '-'-'-'- 'Where is it now. So the wording of this law has taken place several changes, which may also show that the Lawgiver is in a bit of trouble when it comes to interpreting the meaning of that word and this law and its purpose. It is clear in my mind, as I have mentioned, that privacy is protected. It falls below, for example. ... andand even the status of men, because it involves the factors that come out there, so we don't have to argue about that, boy. A senator and me. However, there may be times when we can weigh the view of freedom of expression, and we need to be careful to limit it in this way, as many would like to see in the discussion that is often due to a lack of tolerance for the opinions of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u37	Mr. President. I just want to continue talking about these opinions and little patience for other people's opinions. Then I'd like to look only at two court decisions that fell during the last year, 2017, which I referred to in my first speech, and referred to in the bill at the highest. Minister of Justice on the tribulation of an act of hatred of penal law. It is clear from the reading of these two decisions that there is hardly any innocent belief in teaching in queer studies, not at all, but that people are being subjected to it. This is what the court's opinion is, by permission of the president: We're radio listeners. We don't want any fucking A's explanation of this homosexuality. This is disgusting. Inculcate in children how homosexuals lizard in bed. A can, therefore, sit at home rather than squeeze into the radio history. What a disgusting thing. I must say, I kind of agree with the Supreme Court, which judges for this hate speech. [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that this is an innocent exchange, and the person can certainly keep those views at home. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But taking this into the media just makes me feel very hurt, and it has a very damaging effect on a large group of people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u38	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u39	A respectable president. I can't remember each judgment - it was referred to as a dog. A senator is referring to and referred to in the bill. True, these are bad comments that were put to death and also in themselves in the third case, where there was acquitted. One of these judgments was so said that the person could have presented his viewpoints in other ways. Then you wonder, " What is it that causes prejudice? ' Would it have been much better if men had been able to present their views in a respectful way, using expressions from officials, or those who are accustomed to speaking and writing? Or is it the view that humans are opposed to? That's what I thought it was for. Senator. I wondered, " Is it better for the discussion in this country that people go straight for work so that they can understand the prejudices behind these statements or if they want all of this in a slansel whistle of speech that is lost and that people can't get caught up in the real attitude of people? ' Hv. A senator and I agree that these comments, too, are preposterous. This does not change the fact that the council needs to decide whether they are willing to be punished for these dreary views.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u40	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law on holidays peace and law about a 40-hour work week. The primary purpose of this bill is to increase human freedom to action throughout the year. It is suggested that the ban on certain activities be canceled on holidays. Then the bill assumes that the list of holidays for the National Church will be passed on to law about 40 hours a week of work as holidays. It will continue to prohibit the interruption of church services, church practices, or other observances by noise or other activities contrary to the sacred nature of the same procedure. The current law on holidays allows them to open on holidays, i.e. open to services such as medicine camps, gas stations, and flower stores. The same applies to food shops with a shopping space of less than 600 m2 with at least 2/3 parts of it are attributed to food, beverage, and tobacco trade. Experience shows that this is difficult to monitor. The laws they are today have also resulted in increased sieges among the politicians during the days surrounding festivals. In recent years there have also been significant changes in Icelandic society, including the U.S. By increasing population, tourists are streaming into the country all year round, and the local people and tourists want all kinds of entertainment, especially on holidays and holidays. Has Iceland even. has been marketed especially as a destination for holidays such as Christmas and Easter. Freedom to enjoy and render service has been narrowly tailored on holiday days and the changes in the law of holiday peace proposed here in full harmony, I would think, to the demands of public and professional life. A discussion of the need for reevaluation of holidays on the basis of social changes has also increased recently and has the law in itself failed to comply with the development of society in order to find pleasure. In my opinion, there is not enough evidence to support the laws, both public and professional. Of course, there is no need to restrict people's freedom during the holidays of the National Church with legal requirements, and it is rather considered necessary to reduce the boundaries of the law on holidays so that they can be met by those who want recreation in those days and who want to enjoy or serve. Therefore, the bill suggests that the removal of jobs and recreation will be limited on the basis of current laws on holidays. In this regard, I would like to mention that it is in no way merely to minimize the importance of a people's own holidays and, in my opinion, everyone should honor their holidays. Where environmental protection issues are involved, legislation on the subject of holiday peace, including by quoting the holidays of the National Church in the Law of approximately 40 hours of workweek, No. In an effort to ensure a break from work on holidays, the bill suggests that those days will be listed by law and transferred to law by about 40 hours of work week to ensure the continuation of days as paydays. If I briefly review the major changes proposed in the bill, first of all, it is suggested that there be laws for holidays which measure limitations on specific activities and entertainment on holidays. It's 2. The bill. Since this proposal assumes that the holidays of the State Church will no longer be stated in the law, see paragraph 1. The bill, in accordance with the changed purpose of the law, submitted to a change in Article 1. To them, and to observe the law of the law measuring for the rest of the days. It remains that the law recommends the protection of the ritual. In the 3rd. The bill, therefore, is suggested to ensure that the law's name will continue to be a law of peace on the grounds of ritualism, for which its purpose has to continue to protect sacred observances in general, regardless of the specific holidays of the National Church. Since the bill assumes that the list of holidays of the National Church will fall from the law for a time of rest, it will last in Article 5. The bill suggested a 40 - hour work week change in law that the weekend days of the Congregational Church will all be listed at 1 mg. Section 6. the law as holidays, instead of generally referring to the holidays of the National Church in the same law as it is now being done. Of course, there will be future issues for the labour market party, employee, individual employees and individual employers to set them up in collective agreements. The change is also made in order to ensure continued protection. However, it is suggested that Christmas Day be held on the day of the next day until six o'clock in the morning, but there is no need for such time separation because it was devoted to various limits of business and entertainment on Christmas Day and on the second day of Christmas. It may illustrate the complexity and implementation of the current law. A respectable president. I have explained the subject of the bill and suggest that the bill be followed by a discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u41	A respectable president. I thank the minister for the story and I have to admit that there's a bit of conflict in me about this matter. I think there is good reason to accept the rights of working people from laws related to religion and to take them into law to the rights of working people. They are concerned that the organization of those working people is not completely behind these changes. There's something that we're going to take into the General and Education Committee and something that needs to be examined in a thorough manner when touching laws about 40 hours of work. Perhaps what I would like to ask the minister about the matter is, is there not any reason to take the step to the full and cancel laws of Mayday peace when I think the Minister is going to suggest that all but the 3 separate articles in regard to the nature of the law will be canceled? Section 3. It's a good thing, it's about a certain peace of state around places where religious practices take place, and that immunity is something I think we can write down on. Does not the minister think that we may be generating a full amount of law to give it when it would be enough to put it as an independent article of a religious law, even as normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u42	A respectable president. It may be that this is going to be an unorthodox display of protection by having specific laws on this subject. I believe, though, that such a case is not a reason to cancel this or to bring it into a general penal law that it might be rather than a law on the State Church. We want to protect the right to exercise faith and, like any religion, and a universal rule in this regard. I think it's at least... An entry point whether a person lives here in a law code that guarantees peace on the grounds of a ritual. I don't think that it's time or natural to do so in this way, and perhaps it would also be a more complex process in the light of the ties between state and church and legal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u43	A respectable president. Yes, I still find it strange that the law on peace because of rituals, as they will be, will probably be one of the greatest of the firms in the law, only to guess 30 words to cover something that I think we all agree that we should be in law. Here's a number seven penalty. If we're going to keep the same line of punishment, I don't necessarily see the need to shift to penalties, though it may be considered. We have, as a minister said, a law on the State Church. In fact, I thought it more correct to believe that the law on all religions will handle this and a penalty, as is stated in Article 7. law on holidays peace--it should be as relevant to the law on registered religious and biological institutions such as this one. We would also solve the challenge of being here -- it's so hard for you to call it a law when it's just one law. I guess that's what we have to say. No, I'll always get stuck in this, as 80% of the laws on holiday peace are either suspended or transferred to other tracks, I can't see that we need to have special laws around the rest when it's possible to reach the same target at another place in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u44	A respectable president. The purpose of this bill is to increase the freedom of people to accept and render service during the so - called holidays of the Church. That's the purpose of the law. It's not a purpose, and it wasn't my purpose to interfere with the protection established by the current law. Well, that's why it's left behind. Although it makes it possible that following a law law that becomes extremely few words, I prefer to recommend a law code in general or a law book that it is few words, and it does not dissipate that a person is brought up in particular to uphold a law on sanctuation above other laws from this source.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I've liked what's come from the highest. A minister from the time I sat down at the council, but this bill won't let me down. Well, as surprised as the minister seems to be, that's the fact. I experience it so that it is more likely to be prepared by groups such as Vanity and carried by political powers, as an example, with full respect for them. But I think they are likely to be a follower of many of the people mentioned here. I'd like to ask the minister about two things in these matters. It's a consultation with the church or church council. From the report I can only conclude that a council was looking at the matter, considering that these changes were passed into laws on the status, control, and practices of the National Church, No. 78/1997. Has the church issued its stand on this approach, putting this into law about a 40 - hour work week? I'd like to hear that attitude because it includes a number of people, a variety of sectores and employees. It is, of course, a meeting that takes place primarily on the basis of work-oriented views, not on the basis of holidays. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u46	A respectable president. Yes, there were many things I had hoped for from then on. paritaprevir Ólason, Bergþór, who had doubts about this bill, is to increase human freedom on holidays. But I understand his concern so that he has the interests of the Church of America at heart, and in that light I can welcome his remarks. It is noted that, according to the local church, consultations were carried on in this change, as a minister should do when presenting legal adjustments to the State or to church. I can tell that I thought it was the simplest, I thought it was the most direct course, to bring only this text, which is referred to as the religious holidays, into a law on the State Church, but it gave me a clue about what was useful and of course completely accurate that the holidays of the Church will be unscheduled by law. It is not the Council to set the holidays of the National Church. It is the church itself to do so. It is part of the internal affairs of the National Church. That is why I did not let this happen by referring to and accepting the holidays of the National Church, as has been done in current laws - Christmas, Easter, and those days. It can also change if the church determines the days of the weekend. They are not necessarily the same between countries, even though Christians are Lutheran or Evangelical. Thus, the law had started to refer to days called Christmas Day, Christmas Day, and those days, in the law of approximately 40 hours of work. This, in turn, may be a reason for those who recommend the legislation to clean up and change it for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In addition to this, there's a point I see reason to mention specifically there's been this, to accomplish this, to bring up the list of these vacation days from law for a weekend's peace to a law of about 40 hours' workweek. Then point out what is stated in the review section of the report, by permission of the president: ▪ Professional society considers laws to be about 40 hours of work to be a child of its time and considers the law to be canceled. Well, then what? Will we move this back if we conclude that a work week of some 40 hours will be removed? That may be, but I don't think a ring like that is a good thing. I think it's desirable in general to make adjustments, that they're improving. I have not experienced that there is as much pressure in professional affairs on these scheduled holidays as it seems to be in the form of reading the report. It would be interesting to hear from the highest. The minister of whatever service it is most likely to provide for the improvement in our days until now. I must admit that most of all, I remember an annual report about bingo, which is not to be carried out, but it is not far more serious than that, the lack of service that afflicts us citizens of the country, in my opinion. I think it would be interesting to hear how the Minister is developing in this regard what service it is that citizens have been through because of these rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u48	A respectable president. Yes, there may be some 40 hours of work to be changed and I don't have an opinion - I actually have an opinion about it, but it doesn't depend on me. On the other hand, I would like to insist that human negotiations, human rights as far as holidays go - all equal terms are required in collective agreements anyway. So I'm not even sure that there is an urgent need to read about this vacation day in the law about 40 hours a week. It's all applied in collective agreements, central labour agreements, or by case reports of individual labour contracts and contracts, what holidays they have. I'm not worried about it, even if a law about 40 hours of work makes a significant change or even if it was totally devoid of a day's absence in Iceland because there were no laws on holidays. I think that's what. A senator expresses great faith in what it says if he wishes a minister of justice to be involved in this day of vacation, which is, of course, human rights. Depending on the Ministry of Justice, there are certain human rights. I'm not worried about this. I'm not worried about it. A senator not to lose sleep over this. He'll still have his days off. What activity will possibly be added? I have no idea, and with this bill there is no obligation for anyone to perform any service beyond what is now or even to stop it. As I mentioned in my history, I encourage men in general to have a rest day on holidays. I think it's more of a pain in the ass. It is very clear in this bill that services were not to be performed, stores in space over 600 m2. That may indicate what might be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u49	Madam President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. Minister for advance and presentation of the case. I've only wondered about the need for the bill, the need for the information here, and, as such, can agree with what has been presented, that there is no special need to have laws that specialize the holidays of any particular religion as such in legislation. However, it is at least One Mass is worth considering whether there is any reason to listen to the caution of the labor movement in this regard, including taking into account if opening times and other activities are not enough. Whether it is in itself that there is no need to open up further, I am afraid to say endless sources of employment on any day of the year and at any time of the day. Actually, I prefer to look at the bill more in that context, but maybe exactly whether we're talking about some particular day of the church. The other is also to look - and there may be one of the main points I'd like to come into - whether it's worth something in a community to have days, whether they're together or just individual, where it's just not to be disturbed. Since an employer or employment simply does not have the authority to disturb the individual. To that end, the ◯ rights may be considered, if we can say in foibles, which include the law on holiday peace as the rights of working people. True, they are still the rights of people working for the holidays of the National Church, but we can totally change that. We can make it entirely possible to change the rights of the workers with regard to the days when they themselves choose, or their faith, if appropriate. Similarly, those who may have no special religion or who do not belong to a religion could also choose to represent themselves for certain days during the year in which they did not want to be disturbed. I can totally imagine what day men could choose for that. For example, a person might choose the birthday of his children, so that he might take one objective, obvious example in general. Some might choose them, others might choose that they never want to be disturbed on Christmas Day, and still others might want them not to be disturbed at all on June 17th, etc. It's not only a stroller, Mrs. President, but also a speculation that it is worth something to a community that you can be absolutely peaceful at some time, with the community, to your employer. This is what I tell a worker who worked most of my career, that at my time the employer had endless fishing rights because I had that kind of job. So I know very well what it's like never to be properly in this situation. That's why I want -- and that's mainly because I'm not on a full-scale educational committee and I'm not going to discuss this matter there - direct it to the Committee to reflect the views, to look at them and whether they're on it, either within this bill or by changing it, to do this. But again, Madam President, I reiterate what I said in the beginning of my speech to encourage the committee earnestly to listen carefully to the views of the labor movement when it comes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u50	A respectable president. At first, I want to thank you for this bill, which is approximately identical to the bill of Pirata, which was submitted to Council 145 and 148th, and is now held before the council, unless it's suggested that the law of the holidays be completely suspended. As it turned out, against who. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's earlier words: If you look at what is left in the law on holidays, or as they're going to be changed now, about peace because of the ritual, it's actually only 3 g. And guilts, that say punishment against the third part. g., about the fact that it is acceptable to interrupt church service, church ceremony, or other rituals with noise or other things contrary to the sacred nature of that ceremony, to allow the president, from Article 3. ... abouta sanctimoniousdayofpeace. But the bill's report when it was originally adopted at 121th Congress says, by permission of the President: The article contains a general provision to prevent any interference between church services, church services, or other rituals by noise or other practices that might be contrary to the sacred nature of that act. At the end of that report, the article says: ▪ Most likely it is noisy behavior at a church or a meeting place that interferes with a religious ceremony. Another may be, and here it is, according to the nature of the case, how so? - Something else. You don't really know what. To be honest, I don't see the point of letting this thing hang inside because there are other laws that could cover exactly the same thing. So I'll connect it to the case that was just in the process of making room for a hate speech, there's a certain defense against protest, if you put it that way. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why couldn't Porta's bill be completed that has been submitted several times before and is almost exactly like this bill, except for this one rule that seems completely unnecessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u51	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. We know that holidays and holidays are ancient cultural heritage. is based on one of the Ten Commandments that Jesús Kristur commanded to follow, but much more of the Icelanders prefer to consider themselves Christians, as we know. Most Christians in Iceland share the days of the law. Thus, a law on holidays is more appropriate than a law on the State Church. I rejoice that this was taken into account in comments made by the Synod and the Synod's Law Committee. An article with the bill says that the Synod oversees general support for the objective of the bill. [...] After a hearing and a resolution of the Council's views, changes were made in the bill and suggested that instead of making a list of the holidays of the National Church in the National Cathedral, they would be listed at the law of 40 hours of work week to guarantee further rights for holidays on holidays. I rejoice that these comments were taken into account and expressed my joy with a good work ethic in this regard. On the basis of the current legal framework, I find it normal to be viewed by registered religions and lifestyle partners when it comes to the laws on the sanctity of religious activities and similar activities in general. I cut it to the end of the day. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did not really feel that there would be a need for a special immunity. I'm what? A senator disagrees with that. I believe that it is very important that there be special laws on immunity, and by registered religious and biological organizations, so that religious services, ecclesiastical activities, and activities on the behalf of registered religious and biological organizations are not to be taken into account - with noise or other factors contrary to such practices. I think it's necessary, and I'm glad it's gone. Otherwise, I support the primary objective of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u52	A respectable president. I wanted to have a very brief place to say. A senator because I think we agree. He told me earlier that he disagreed with me about the need for special laws on the privacy of the religious rites. You see, we agree on that. I just think it's a little awkward that there's a special single law that's holding it and that would, I think, would much rather see such regulations that the balance of religion and the activities of documented religious and principles should not be disturbed simply by law dealing with those communities rather than by standing alone. But this is a matter of implementation because I think that in the ground we agree on this. It is such a smell of public peace, that people can practice their religion or belief in peace and free them from wanting to interfere with them for some reason. The same applies to various activities in the community that are the role of the legislature and the executive's role in protecting the task without interference. But the only thing I'm going to put a question mark on is if this one law, Article 3. law on holidays peace, should remain as an evil thing in a single law or if it would not just please much more in the law of the record of religious and principles.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I just heard we agree on this. You're right next door. A senator, and perhaps I misunderstood him a little earlier when he gave his talk in this regard. True, they would be illegal. You're right about what you're doing. Senator. But I think it's important that this should be guided, that there will be a non-secure state of privacy for those activities. Then I mean, not only, as I said, Christian activities, but the activities of registered religions and lifestyle associates, that everyone is being dealt with as much as that matter. It's like a technical discharge, it's just a matter of time before. A senator, and probably a review of it within the committee in what way would be the best way to do so. The point of my mind is that it will not be missed because I think it's necessary to keep it inside. It serves to me an important purpose. Other than that, I thank you. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u54	A respectable president. It's the same thing, except I'm willing to shovel this article completely out. There's really nothing to say that religious and biological organizations should especially get some peace beyond any other free organization. Why should the Red Cross not get a day of rest or a time of rest in order to pursue its work in any way? Why do religions and societies get more than that? Should such a law be set on political parties, which are certainly part of a particular philosophy of life, if you can put it that way, even though they do not have exactly that type of registration? We have a lot of general laws about certain insolences and interferences that should cover this, I would think. If not, it may be a problem that would have to be solved in general. But not especially for religious and biological organizations. They should be able to work, just as with any other organization without having any chance to fine someone or disbarred an employee. There was talk of permission, permission of work, of drinking on some odd grounds in the report when the bill was originally written. Today, the wording is enormously broad in terms of fines. It seems that religions can almost define themselves as being uncontaminated or disturbed. So inaccurate wording, so broad, I feel unacceptable, and in general, this should not be anything different than merely to interfere with general social activities at all but nothing particularly for religious and biological organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u55	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. In this regard, we disagree. I think that's a very clear issue. My view is, as I mentioned earlier, that the holidays and holidays of peace are an ancient cultural heritage that I want to keep, I'm conservative in this regard. In the past, we know that the church was discussed. This relates to the ancient cultural heritage in my opinion and to the right to hold it, it is not a difference between one and another, since it will apply to all registered religions and institutions of life. Hv. A senator said it was a long definition. Well, I'm not exactly following a what. A senator with that, but most of all, it's about refusing to interfere. We could, for example. Picture for us some who were opposed to one particular religious organization in some way contradict its practices, by haircoats, and by other means that would greatly interfere with that ceremony. So I feel that there are some laws that forbid such conduct and that apply to all religions and societies. I think this is only necessary so that the religions of the same religion are allowed to do their business in peace. After all, some factors must be guaranteed by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u56	A respectable president. Just to draw attention to this not only to the holidays as such, since it is forbidden to interfere with worship, church ceremony, or other rituals by noise or other forms of the holy thing. What this means is extremely broad. This means, in effect, that a religion or belief in life can define what is considered a sacred act. It could be some religion that says: You must not eat meat on this day - really. That's a definition of the sacred nature of the function. Therefore, it is said that if the law is broken, someone will be able to lose alcohol rights, which is part of the penalty. In sports companies, e.g. takes place in certain activities, and this is often the case. Political groups, often in conflict. People don't see us going and protesting outside the world headquarters of other political parties, even though we were very opposed to their opinions. Why would it be different with religious and biological organizations? This is a form of mutual respect for the ability of others to have well - thought - out opinions. There is no need to defend it specifically in the law. Or perhaps further stated: They would have to explain why a special law protection would be needed to carry out their ministry or activities, probably inside their own housing, as well as other items, e.g. other laws, would be there to prevent interference, you would expect, which would be valid for all, and should be absolutely sufficient protection from the sanctity of which the religious or spirit society would wish for such a ceremony.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u57	Madam President. Hv. A senator has come a little wide in these definitions, in my opinion, when he is involved with the sports companies and the political parties, etc. This aspect of the law, for a time of rest, has been thoroughly accepted by the rich. Criticism has more to do with business and business and the days such as business, etc. I haven't heard that people are putting out that these activities are not to be interrupted or disturbed. I haven't had much trouble with that. I reiterate what I said before, okay? A senator, that I think it necessary, in my case, that these principles and religions may engage in their activities in peace, I appeal to ancient cultural heritage and to man to respect these activities and to the religion of the people, whatever it may be. We know only from abroad that men have been persecuted for their beliefs and beliefs. I think it's necessary for a set of rules like this to be inside. We can debate whether it needs to be a special law and probably consider it from technical sources. But first of all, it is important that these acts be given to a people, that in a certain way they can be protected and a lawman in their behalf. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u58	A respectable president. We here discuss laws that help to ensure the individual's freedom to provide and attend service or recreation on holidays and to eliminate the government's involvement in the business. Of course, I take my heart to address the goals of these laws and recommend that they be paid over the council and on the committee. I'm not riding. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, but I've mentioned here to discuss laws about 40 hours of work -- did it earlier in winter, when we discussed the adjustment of the Pirate law, that I think, to turn them into a 38-hour workweek or 35. When I read the excellent laws originally from 1971, I think I came to the conclusion that they were really unnecessary. There's not much I'm more concerned with than that we have a law that's not needed. Laws about 40 hours of work week provide more or less, natural, labour market employees with permission to negotiate these factors as they please. We discussed whether this should be a law about 35 hours of work or a 40 - hour work week or something other than what I say: Of course, it should be a market agreement. Last year, the highest said. A minister in answer to a law of approximately 40 hours of employment was not exposed to the Ministry. I'd like to drop it here in the discussion that perhaps it would be suggested that the next law would be taken off about 40 hours of work, and if it is thought that something in that law is needed by law - perhaps what is suggested here - I wondered if it might be more in some sort of work protection laws. We've got laws on how to handle this operation, how to be loyal and safe at work. That is where IX takes place. Chapter of resttime, holidays and maximum hours. Perhaps it would be reasonable to approach either some legal holiday day, whether it is a set day of vacations associated with our culture and Christian values, or so on. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, that each man should be free to choose his own days of vacation. It would also be possible to approach things that way. I must now admit that I am just too much of a conservative to jump on the bus to an unconcerned matter. But I felt that I had to make this statement, and I feel that there's a reason to discuss this and whether it might be part of a committee's list. The General and Education Committee, to be directed to the welfare committee or health minister, if possible, to revise this code under which it belongs. To say, I also want to add what I said in my talk, when we were discussing a 40 - hour work week, that these vacation days - they are in the law they are today but only by law on holidays. When we're talking about Christmas Christmas Christmas and New Year's Day Christmas Day - and we think it's the holiday from the clock. 13 - Now I'm just saying, why don't we just take it all day for a day off? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Is it not reasonable for those who work on that day, though it is in the morning until one hour, to be paid as if it were a red day? Most of us who have office jobs and others don't have to do jobs on this day. Shall we say that's my input into the hula fight? It would be wise to take these days all the time. Then I would also like to mention the discussion that has developed in this hall regarding whether December 1st should be a general day of vacation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u59	A respectable president. I just want to correct what was said about 40 hours of work week. There is, in fact, some basic rights that are determined here at the Council and that can be, like the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice spoke of, perhaps interpreting human rights as such. It would then come into her area in that way. Seven. About 40 hours of work week is right, with the permission of a president: The terms of the Treaty can be taken into account by treaties, which are confirmed by the partner of the collective organisation. Yes, perhaps it is the view that these laws can be disposed of, but in my opinion they set a set of frameworks for which they can be negotiated or from other rights. I think it's necessary - there doesn't necessarily have to be a law at home about 40 hours of work week, could be in OSH law, and so on - that we put this frame on day-to-day working hours in the law in some way. But it has no effect on collective agreements in any way except as a reference, taking into account the rights struggle that has taken place in the last 200 years that has been about controlling the way companies treat people's work hours. I consider a 40 - hour - a - day work week to be a law, whether it is in the law or in the Labour Code, or something like it, absolutely necessary. And 7. G., that these contracts can be removed from the law to and from, with these general agreements, are only very good at that. That's why I don't think it's necessary to cancel a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u60	A respectable president. So I disagree. As I told you before, I think such frames or floors, whatever we call them, belong in some kind of OD. Now I'll admit that I haven't read a lot of information in law called commitmental laws, equipment, and hours. En IX. A chapter about resttime, holidays, and maximum working hours is quite long and detailed, and there are quite a number of articles under legal vacation time periods between and these. I would have asked, and also just to explain the legal environment, both for those working in the market and for professionals, which law applies, that it was all clear in one package that to my mind should be some kind of occupational law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u61	A respectable president. I can agree with that, and this was what I was trying to come from, that I don't care whether this ground floor is in the protection law or in the law of approximately 40 hours of work or in other laws. Perhaps just aside: It is only a piece of gauze and making it simple and efficient so that it is available. So I'm gonna ask you why. A senator has not examined Pirata's bill on delinquency, 208 songs that are empty and we would like to erase. I'm asking if it would be wise to go through with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u62	A respectable president. I rejoice over this bill and have made it out of this public address. I say, I will support every good thing and cleaning in our collection of laws is clearly one of the issues I will support. I really believe we can get it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u63	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir speech. I'd like to wonder that I didn't feel that the senator decided to handle what may be my main concern about this bill, i.e. Consult the labor movement and worry the labor movement about the legal process. Whether the senator's concern is that by taking the necessary steps in the way they are expected, we might in some way be demeaning the rights of the workers and therefore reason to do something more specific about them in the text. To me, this is not just about, and in most cases, increasing some business freedom or something like that. Rather, it is about a large part of it that there are certain rights given to working people, though, under the cover of involvement with the National Church's holidays. But that may be what I am most concerned about. This is shown in the bill's report that although the official organisation may have been relatively neutral in these changes, the ASI and trade union unions in that wing may have described at least one or more of the most significant changes. worry and even opposition to change, at least unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. In view of the fact that it didn't come on my level, I haven't read the bill that's available but take my mind to its goals. When I review this discussion about my words and comments that have come to my attention in the report, I say, with permission of the president: There are many comments from the labour market agencies funded by the Department of Health, which are more than dependent on the views and policies in general on the labour market issues that are subject to the Ministry of Social Affairs. That's what my dot is primarily about. I agree that we are to guarantee the individual's freedom to provide and attend service or recreation on holidays and, in fact, to take up the work of the law on the Sabbath peace. What I especially pause to do is a change in the law about a 40 - hour work week. I find that the concern that has come from unions is that we normally watch the OSH law, whether or not we should have special vacation days, whatever they are, whether or not they'll be the way. A senator mentioned earlier in a talk, or whether they are subjugated as the days we know so far. In fact, I feel that this is a little different, so it should be better to deal with the situation, where we are dealing with some focalal law that is lying to the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u65	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I would like a later answer to go back to what she mentioned a little at the end of her reply, i.e. The whole holiday thing. She came in early to let go of all the anchors and just stop celebrating some particular holidays on the National Church. I'm not there personally. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I respect the right of those who might choose another day, some other religions who might choose another day, or some who do not share their religious beliefs. They may choose to spend a whole other day with someone. I suppose there will be days on your calendar that will still be red-coded. I'm not dissuading. My comments were of the days that are this day most holy of all the holy things, within the foals, namely. The days in which you are not really to be distracted or that are not really to be distracted. Men might have a little choice about what days they choose under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u66	A respectable president. I am glad to hear that we are not all conservative and want to celebrate the momentous days that we have so far held sacred, many of which are based, but not all of them, on the Christian faith. I'm glad to hear that we're still talking about them as red days and that's just normal. But whether people can actually negotiate to make other days on their own days and not be disturbed by the employer and have a vacation, I meant that they can be in contracts. If it isn't, I would feel it should be. Whether the legislation needs to change something to make it possible, I just have to admit that I don't know it. But reiterate what I said earlier that I feel that it's a discussion. It's a matter of reference to the protection of the workers and the freedom of the people to negotiate with them on the market about it. We may have spent excessive time discussing these matters under the precise bill that sounds to me that people deeply agree with their goals. What remains is then - if I understand the right people, respectable senators who have spoken here - about 40 hours of work weeks. It may be just then, we should let ourselves tell another ella to take the discussion about it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen who have participated in discussions on this subject. The discussion has gone out a bit in many parts of the world, and toward the end, but perhaps the rest of the days' peace is directly related. But it is, as I came to my past, and may want to be done here at the end, the purpose of this bill to increase the freedom of men to provide and accept services on the holidays we have so far and have referred to the religious holidays. That's the point. Otherwise, the peace that is given in the current law on non - leave days of peace should not be disturbed - and then I'm referring to the fact that the rest of the law in the current set of laws succeeds the bill, is a law for the protection of rituals in order to ensure that peace and privacy within the limits of Leviticus. the following convention, which states that it is forbidden to interfere with church and church activities or other rituals with noise, as it is said, or other things that may be contrary to the sacred nature of the occasion. And because there was talk, a matter of course. Councilmen, it is proper to make this law today - and then to continue - not only with the State Church but also with other religions. Since the ritual was specifically mentioned, there is no distinction. However, I agree with the viewpoints presented here that people need to be concerned about freedom in order to negotiate their days of vacation and to conduct them as best they can. This needs to be guaranteed, and of course, it could increase significantly, including some of them. with legislation on law reviews about 40 hours of work week, and other challenges are made to a medium-controlled labour agreement. I think it is long time to consider that there is more freedom in that matter, as humans have. I'm encouraging it. In particular, members of the council to adopt it during this assembly and under the rest of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u68	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the processing of personal information in a law enforcement plan, 555 case at this council. The bill is designed to put together one of the overall laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information from law enforcement agencies, the prosecution, and the full punishment. The bill also implements the Council Directive and the Council No. 2016/680, from 27 April 2016, on the protection of individuals in the processing of the competent authority on personal data in connection to prevent, investigate, expose or administer a criminal offense or execute the legal law laws and the free sharing of such information and on the breakdown of the framework of the Council No. 2008/977/DIM, a so-called law order. This directive is part of the European Union's so-called Data Protection package, which, in addition to its directive, contains the general personal protection directive No. 2016/679, for the protection of individuals in the processing of personal data and the free sharing of such information, which the Senate knows very well, this directive was implemented by law No. 90/2018. However, the directive on this matter is not part of our cooperation in the EEA field. Rather, it is considered to be the development of the Schengen Court's regulations in accordance with the EU Convention made with the European Commission and Norway on the participation of these two countries in the implementation, implementation and development of the Schyngen models. Therefore, the management board is to introduce its contents into Icelandic correctly based on participation in the Schengen Community. The introduction, with the sentence of a specific law, makes it safe to say that the bill contains a great legal improvement, which is the first universal law on personal protection in the field of punishment. Since the subject of the bill is tailored to the nature and needs of the respective government, it will create a clearer framework for the handling of personal information, ensuring individual rights and increasing transparency in the relations of the citizens with the established authorities. In terms of the nature of the bill, it applies to all authorities who have a legal role in the field of punishment and thus are considered legal in the sense of the bill. They are considered incomprehensible on the bill, among which is the office of the State Marshal, the Police Department, the National Guard, the customs manager, and the Prison Department. Therefore, the government will be responsible for working on both personal protection laws, i.e. Law I used to mention, No. 90/2018, about personal protection. What determines which law code applies to the specific processing of personal information is whether the process is carried out in a so - called law enforcement purpose, which is specifically defined in the bill. In this regard, the bill hides Persian protection - i.e. The Agency - all monitoring of the procedure of the law and eventually involved the Agency in determining which law should be in question. The contents of the bill are in many ways comparable to the content of the protection laws adopted last year, but the fundamental difference, as I mentioned earlier, is that its content is specially tailored to the work of the law - abiding authorities. Thus, to a large extent, the same principles on the processing of personal information under the bill and the Personal Protection Act apply, as well as the comparable rules on responsible and processing of personal information and monitoring. On the other hand, there is an example that the regulations of the bill on the right person to access personal information take into account the views of protection, research, and law - enforcement interests and therefore have limitations. In view of the sensitivity of personal data in general, increasing security requirements for access of individual workers are required to ensure the information and traceability of the information systems used by the government. This will require special permission from the competent authorities to provide personal information between the two parties in order to facilitate the required information flow. In addition, there is authority to provide personal information to other public and private parties, but the controversial media sources are in addition to the sources that the authorities already have by law. Then the law of the Law, No. 90/1996, with subsequent changes. It contains the authority of the police to work and provide personal information in general, but it is intended to provide the authority that the police have already formalized. However, police authority is required to share information about passengers and crews and others go to foreign authorities to prevent terrorism or other serious crime. The police and customs manager are already authorized by customs laws to collect these information, but it is also necessary that the police be authorized to communicate to foreign authorities, as this is a fundamental prerequisite for government participation in international cooperation in that area. A respectable president. Other than that, I refer to the bill that is on the front page and comment by suggesting that the case be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u69	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synonym of a change in the synopsis of Iceland's Communion Fund, No. 13/144. The proposal is proposed by the presidents of all political parties. On June 19, 2015, the balance fund was founded by the decision of the General Assembly on the grounds that by then 100 years had passed since the election was elected and elected to the Council. In review, the main purpose of the fund is to finance or strengthen projects and research aimed at promoting equality in Icelandic and international countries. Factors aimed at focusing on social, environmental, and economic benefits of increased equality; projects that work against the salary of the sex and to promote general equality of the sexes in the labour market; projects designed to counteract sexual violence; programs designed to encourage young people of both sexes to expand their community activities and research projects that are designed to shed light on the status of the sexes in the environment as well as in the past. Five years, 100 million. K. In a year, until the end of 2020. The fund's management board, both its defense and its management, has so far heard under the Ministry of Health but, as some claim, moved with a legal order to the Ministry of Equal Opportunities at the beginning of 2019 - or 20/119. Iceland's emissary management was first contained at the General Assembly on March 15, 2016, with the role of evaluating applications and the provisional sponsorship made on the women's rights day of June 19th of each year. The board has cooperated with the European Union, the workforce, the Ministry, the school, the funds and institutions on topic and structure and has contributed to the production of knowledge in equality and gender and a variety of tasks aimed at a more righteous society and increasing quality of life. Here is a suggestion for changes in funds that have the goal of promoting government and its activities. The proposals include the reduction in funds management by the prime minister of the fund until the end of 2020, three mains and three reserves, and that the management board, including his defense and his daily management, will be in Ranni's Research Center of Iceland, but not in the Ministry. However, it is assumed that an expert in the Office of Equal Opportunities in the Presidency Department will be the contact of the Ministry to Ranni for the Fund and that the emphasis on collection of funds will take into account by #Ik or #metoo movement, so that the distribution of 2019 and 2020 will be called after applications for projects and research that contribute to education and prevention with the objective of the elimination of sexual and sexual harassment and sexual violence in Icelandic society. Thus it will be emphasized to strengthen educational and proactive activities for young people regarding violence, harassment, harassment, and speech that promote such factors, education for young people of responsible attitudes toward sex, pornography, and sexual violence, and increased knowledge of defenses and a comparable reaction to violence in close relationships, including domestic violence. Madam President. During the years that the balance fund has done, many projects have gained strength from the fund. Thus, knowledge of equality has been greatly enhanced. I believe that with increased emphasis on education and prevention, which is focused on young people, we include them. to deal with the realities that #I like or #metoo movement has exposed, but a high level of 1,000 women from all Icelandic law have reported discrimination, harassment and violence that they have had to endure in public fields as well as in personal life. The stories of women of foreign origin in connection with this revolution cast light on a variety of discriminations common in Iceland, and it is long time for us to face them. With increased knowledge of the nature and consequences of harassment and violence, we build a basis for policy and action that can resist gender discrimination and prevent the harmful sex system that is harmful to all of us, no matter what we are. At the same time, we need to strengthen our understanding and awareness of a variety of discriminations, which include: Women of foreign background, queer women, and disabled women, and indeed, people of all genders who belong to sensitive groups of society. I'd like to thank the presidents, but at the time, they were the heads of state at the Council, who made this suggestion, for being in harmony with this proposal. I want to reiterate that, in view of this change in the order of the fund, I will now have conversations with the prefect of the representatives appointed by the prime minister and should be the chairman of the fund. I believe that the agreement we have achieved in a number of good equality matters, the development of equality in a broad sense, is very important, and I believe that these changes are a failure to further the fund and to trust its role. It has already been shown that he has made a big difference in furthering discussions, instruction, and research on equality issues. I'd like to suggest that after a discussion about this proposal, it be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u70	Madam President. I have come up here to declare the most supportive of this matter. It is important to continue, but we are also seeing a little of the experience since 2016 that the fund has been working. But it is true, to him it was founded, highly recommended, in 2015, in favor of the 100th term of women in Iceland. Let us just remember that at the time, there was an equal sum fund established in 2005 by Halldór Ásgrímsson, where he wanted to further research on the exact equality, gender, etc. This may be the beginning, and in 2015 it was decided to try to use the research fund, which was then in the Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Department at the time, to further improve it. During 2015, a major step was taken by the government under the direction of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoll, and then by other presidents who were at that conclusion. And until now, it was founded. Surely, the fund has covered countless applications, and many projects have been supported. It should be noted that I was the first part of the funds board at the time, and it was an amazing project and research that was strengthened at the time. Of course, this need to be developed and developed and to take even more progressive steps, including of the standards we have about science and research. Therefore, I believe it is a successful step we have agreed to move this over to Ranni's. There is much experience in reviewing applications and presenting specific requirements. It was also a rich political wish at the time to have this a little wide; the government would have a vast authority to deal with innovation or new emphasis in the community. May it be said that with this suggestion, which is directly about taking into account, including The #metoo effects directly into the synopsis proposal, however, were the authority for the management of the fund, with full respect for the universities of the country, focusing not only on university research, but on other projects. There could be film projects to promote women, promote greater equality talk or emphasis on Turkey, I can remember one application, but also how to promote women, e.g. use them in the country within certain sectors, etc. It is important that the people we choose not only have confidence but also confidence to deal with different applications that reflect a community of different people. But it remains that the aim is to expand the research into the fields of equality and in the report it says that the goal is to strengthen projects that shed light on social, environmental, and economic benefits of greater equality;.•I think and I hope we all agree on in the Senate that equality is economic, equality is social, and equality is enormously important to all of us. Therefore, we want to promote further research. I stressed it when I was at the highest. The prime minister called for a concordat on the contribution of this matter, which, of course, I thought was natural to take, that the arrangement of the fund's administration would be in this way. I'd like to underline it and especially welcome it to the highest. In his talk, a minister mentioned that there will be a certain consultation, though it may be difficult for eight categories, about the order of the individual to the highest degree. The prime minister or minister of equal rights orders every time, whoever he may be. Because all classes have ambitions that these matters are going on well, and then the person leading the fund is certainly important, for they have been good directors of the fund so far. Otherwise, I hope that this will go well and quickly through the committee with the normal preparation and passage of the council. Of course, we on the projection support the matter. This, in turn, is another occasion for discussion, because at the same time the fund approved for a total of five million each year, what we will do in 2020 when the funds are formalized. It is not possible that such a course should be extended. I think we should always take advantage of this opportunity and ask ourselves, " What can we do better? What experience do we have with the operating of the fund? But as it is now, I consider it a model and a great solid solidarity, which can be in the council right away on important issues, such as equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u71	President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Prime Minister made more part of the fund's management proposal to make a change in order to ensure the progress and the future of Iceland's Equal Opportunity and its activities, end up at the same level of business today as when it was established on June 19, 2015. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir before then, has been an extensive journey. There has been a grant of academic projects as well as what we have chosen to call projects. It has given the fund a considerable greater benefit, and I really hope it will continue, that we will not only be in the college community, for it is very easy for those in there to apply for strength, for they may be able to apply for strength. In many cases, we were able to examine applications quite carefully so that they would get a course, even if they did not completely meet the conditions that the educational community sometimes sets. I like that you should continue calling for applications for such projects and that, of course, research is being continued. The emphasis on education and prevention is very important, and perhaps all of us in the community are doing it a little bit. What an ambitious goal it is to make for young people to focus on the elimination of sexual and sexual harassment as well as sexual violence and how I like it very much that the fund will strengthen projects that are particularly related to responsible attitudes toward sex, pornography, and sexual violence and activities, which contribute to the increased knowledge of the prevention and the consistent response, which we often discuss in close relationships. Finally, I want to thank the administration of an equal sum, and especially for the Árni the son of Matthíasson and the Guðni of Elísson, who have been watched, so to speak, throughout this period of time that is now running its course. I wish to the highest. Happy are those who have received the funds back home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u72	A respectable president. I welcome this proposal to conspire... to the conclusion of the conversion of Congress... to Iceland's Communion Fund. This is an approved change made on June 19, 2015, on the grounds of the 100th anniversary of the U.S. Women's election, which was adopted at the Parliament's proposal to establish Iceland's Social Reunion Fund for five years. Changes are being made that actually came up in a group of members of Congress when the proposal was originally adopted that it was reasonable for Iceland's research center, Rannis, to care for the daily management of the fund. This would ensure a professional trust and a professional position over the government entrusted to the management of the fund. I think this change is very important. The suggestion that the proposal was adopted was for a discussion, at least among many of the senators, to add projects, and to give more emphasis on the work now into the d-, e-, f- and g- team, on education and prevention in Icelandic society, and on a talk that encourages them, instruction for young people and increased prevention and consistent response to violence in close relationships. I think it's very important that we show up here that when things are discussed, and even if we don't get results in the first round, it often results in patience. I reiterate my joy with this suggestion, and I think it will bring us forward. I think the government that has worked well for this work - it's good that these suggestions come from her, and they're supported by advanced management. Of course, at the end of this period, 2020, it is important to evaluate the work, evaluate what has taken place, and look forward to the future, what will be the most urgent task then. I'm sure there will be an urgent balance project. They could become in other areas, not necessarily equal to the sexes, but equal in other ways. It's just a fund that's supposed to have your finger on your pulse, no matter how big it is every time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u73	Madam President. It is happy that this proposal for Congress is submitted, and it sets out ambitious goals and expands the role of the fund. I don't think anyone will get involved in the thought that working in an organized way to combat violence and sexual violence is particularly important and that it increases prevention and instruction. However, I would like to point out that it is very important that this education is especially relevant in the system itself, e.g. The justice system. How important it is that those who work there, from law enforcement to court, have a sense of identity in every sexual violence, and the value of human justice! well understands the changed attitudes of society regarding sexual relations and when people are crossing limits in that context. I'd like to point out that the person listed here has proposed a judicial hearing, which, in fact, may have been the case. In particular, education involves a direct entry into the justice system along with others. I hope that proposal is also established here at the council. I want to reiterate my support of this case, and I think it is very important to show that there has become a change of viewpoint in the community to all of these matters, and it reaches and is well, because we here have the opportunity to promote and improve this work in order to achieve very important results for society all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u74	Madam President. First and foremost, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank them. Councilmen who have spoken here, especially them. Councilmen who have been in the management board of the fund and have come to know its work from within. I also thank them for their work in the scene of the fund. Valuable value lies in the solidarity found here at the Allied Parliament on Equal Opportunities. Iceland and I are happy to put the top of World Economic Forum's list when it comes to gender equality. This has not been the case since a parapolitical agreement on equality has been reached, fighting for gender equality on different fronts. But what I also perceive, and hear in the matter of each one. The members of the council here speak are that this battle will likely never be over. There are many things that the list that we speak does not speak at all. That is exactly the factors that we will discuss in this suggestion. Rather, we will focus on eliminating the sex - related lesions of violence and sexual harassment in Icelandic society. I'm glad to hear the solidarity that is in this room and is expressed in this suggestion. So I hope this will be a good thing. This change in the fund. Then, of course, it needs to be discussed, as the following article showed. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, what will take place after 2020, and how we will continue to strengthen and trust educational projects, research projects, and other projects that contribute to greater equality in society. But I appreciate it. Congress members for the discussion, hoping that this proposal will be well paid here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u75	Madam President. I recommend a bill for a change in health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, of the increase in bioavailability to psychotherapy. First, I would like to thank you for the broad support this fine case has been given at the council, with a total of 24 members from all sides of the case, i.e. More than one third of the councils here state that health insurance is taking care of psychological care and should therefore be welcomed. The primary objective of this is that public psychology services will fall under Iceland's health insurance system, thus being provided on the same terms as other health services. Psychological services are now reserved for the general payment of health insurance. A growing number of people are diagnosed with mental illness or other spiritual illnesses, but the availability of resources for this group is limited and the cost is often considerable, as we have many examples of. It is important to make sure that those with active symptoms have their problems resolved as soon as possible to prevent drug cycle abuse, depression, and inactivity. Such things can have serious consequences, both for those who need help, for their families, and for their community. So the bill is intended to ensure an improvement in the access of individuals to psychology services. Bioavailability to psychiatric services is crucial for early diagnosis and early ensuring appropriate treatment after diagnosis. According to surgeon's clinical guidelines, the most effective psychological treatment for anxiety, depression, and other psychological disorders, should be the first treatment for anxiety, depression, and any other physical illness. Sadly, it is another one today, and all too often medication is taken as a first choice. Psychiatric treatment rather than administrations of the medicinal product allows for the underlying problem and can prevent or significantly reduce medication. Even so, such treatments are usually not practical, except for parts of the public in which there is too limited room within the health care system, with the potential for waiting, and a delay in necessary treatment. It also suggests that treaties with health insurance are not authorized in accordance with local laws. Thus, unlike other health care services, psychological services are primarily available in the field of private psychiatrists, without official support for those in need of the ministry. This is what we want to fix. The prevalence of suicide and mental illness is a serious problem. The causes are many and varied, but it is clear that this problem will be addressed. Thus, health prevention is of great importance, as is the case with physical and mental health problems. A key factor is to provide access to preventive measures and increase the potential for immediate treatment of such diseases as depression and anxiety that appear to be increasing among young people. Without a doubt, such would have a long - term positive national impact. Just as visible ones are exposed, invisible diseases need to be met. Thus, quality of life can be improved. No one is to be denied because of costs or lack of access, but according to Economics sources, some 33% of people do not have the resources for mental health care. This is especially true for young people who suffer from low income. In order to recover, the most common individual would need to have a treatment period between 10 and 15 hours of therapy at the psychologist's discretion. Today's most common price for psychology is $14,000,18,000. Thus, the cost of such treatment is estimated to be hundreds of thousands of dollars, not all of which are available. A respectable president. I believe our most important project is to put our young people first and face the reality that we face in Iceland today. The news of a study conducted in 44 European countries on teen well - being was published during the days, showing that the trend in local countries has never been lower and that the trend in this country is poor. It revealed that 39% of students in the 10th grade experienced sadness every week or more. Here are clear indications that we are responsible for dealing with. After 18 years of age, individuals do not have the right to subsidies they once enjoyed, and during study, they do not have the same access to sponsorship, e.g. Strengthens unions, to attend psychological services, and peers at work. The age group of 183/425 years is the most dangerous age group when it comes to spiritual illness, but in reality the most critical of situations. According to a European health study since 2015, more young women of that age were diagnosed with depressive symptoms in Iceland than in any other European country, but approximately five of these women were tested at that age with symptoms of depression. At that time, suicide is the most common cause of death among Icelandic men aged 18How-25, who die at that age of six. In general, 11▪3 out of 100 thousand lives each year are considered to be the latest suicide rates in Iceland. The mental - health practitioner cannot see to it that this frequency drops in the near future. According to these latest numbers, we are talking about 1,9,13 out of 100 thousands of people who can take their lives each year. About half of the young people in the United States aged 16◯25 have thought about ending their lives, and 1 out of 10 have done something to harm themselves. The results of a new report by the surgeon general, of suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts by Icelandic youths, indicate a striking fact, which, according to one report, 350 boys and 613 girls in 2016 have attempted suicide sometime - or about 9% of young people in Iceland. It is important to increase the availability of mental - health services to all but also to provide practical provisions to deal specifically with the community's most dangerous problems, such as young people or socialally ill people. These are the groups I especially want to draw here. I think it's extremely important that the council, the legislature and the sheep market send a message that we're going to invest in mental health. It's a good investment. To a large extent, the removal of Icelandic university students from college to mental health can be accomplished. This involves considerable social cost when young people disappear from studies or fall from activity. The funds are at the same time not preconceived by the right to handle this problem. This leads to bigger problems and more costly measures to cope with them. While the cost of medical treatment for spiritual problems is largely subsidized, there has been a great lack of alternatives to the treatment of depression and anxiety. Prescriptions of antidepressants have increased. In 2017, 31,000 women released antidepressants and 17,000 men, about 48,000 individuals. In view of the information published by the surgeon, over 46,200 people released antidepressants in Iceland in 2016, an increase of 22% since 2012 - a 22% increase from 2012 to 2012,2016. A respectable president. This accounts for the cost of the State's mental abuse each year. In Iceland, there are over 17,000 people on disability. According to one estimate, about 2030 individuals in the disability process will be 21,000 at their annual cost of 107 billion dollars. It's right around the corner, and we can't postpone the future. The majority of disability improvements are then paid because of mental illness or musculoskeletal problems. In all likelihood, investing in preoperative activities in this area will involve long-term failures in the future. By 2017, 18% of all women in Iceland had been prescribed antidepressants and more than 10% of men. The use of antidepressants, as mentioned earlier, is doubled; it is high and it is two-fold that of the OECD average and 24% higher than the OECD population that uses second most, and that's Australia. We have 24% more use than the next two people. Of the 27,000 people who had been prescribed sleeping medication in 2003, 11,000 were still on sleep medication in 2018 when we were working on the project. By November, 33,000 Icelanders had been prescribed sleeping medication. According to the surgeon general's records, Iceland used 37% more hypnotics than its nearest northern nation, Sweden. However, if the reaction between society and the government to mental illness and physical illness is viewed, there are significant differences. Further understanding and support are available for the latter and for the patients. In fact, this is not to be spoken of in two ways, since mental illness always has physical consequences. More often than not, their causes are found largely in biological components of the body, genetic and neurological factors, in particular. Even so, when it comes to the response and efforts of the government and the community, there is a considerable difference. It is important that any social and cultural prejudice not interfere with individuals, people in the community, in the pursuit of appropriate health care to improve their mental well - being. Thus, the fulfillment of the promises that have been marked by the discussion of mental health must be the logical continuation of governments, for all of us would like to do all we can to meet the difficult and potentially lethal situation of the common people, especially young people with addictions and mental disorders. For comparisons with the North countries, psychological costs are subsidized elsewhere. In Norway, psychological services are included in the service applicable to a discount card, as well as general medical services, etc. In Denmark a person can choose between being registered by a family physician, requiring referral to specialists, psychologists and other therapists, or not to be registered with a family physician and be able to search where he wants, without references, and pay them part of the cost himself. However, both groups need a referral from a physician in order to have the right to subsidies, and the psychologist needs to have a contract with the government. Subjects pay 410 DKs before the first time and 342 before the next period, with reference for up to 12 hours of treatment, 24 hours in specific circumstances. In some rural areas subsidies are higher because of psychological services. Individual tasks also offer free psychological treatment for special cases such as suicide risk, alcohol consumption, etc. Children under 18 years of age generally do not respond to medical care, including psychological services. In Sweden the county is responsible for health care and is in the power of each county to determine pay attention on health care. The pay is set at national level and is now 1,150 SEK in a 12-month period. It has made a contract with independent psychologists where the cost is lower, and the visit costs the same as the visit by the doctor. In many countys, you can find a special welcome for young people who can receive inexpensive psychological assistance. In Finland, for example, the State pays psychiatric services in a rehabilitation program for people 16◯67 years of age for up to 200 times over three years, a person receives a contracting service to psychologists. This needs to be adhered to in accordance with certain rules. For the most part, children and adolescents are involved in psychological services within the school and the health - care system. The cost assessment for the bill is not available, as is the case with other members of Congress, but it is reasonable to assume that by placing psychological services under the social security system, they increase access to the public that mental health services will be possible to save government high levels for a long time. Investment in man - made and mental health is economicly practical and is retrieving, as studies show. Recently, reports show that the incidence of disability due to musculoskeletal problems was reduced by the release of physical training from the State. This is an example of the benefits of government investing in preventative and preventive measures instead of handing over Band-Aids, of good wills, in order to put on individuals for short periods of time. Prophylaxis methods, such as psychology services, have been found to produce results and thus increase the likelihood that individuals will maintain health and physical function in the community. This is in the opinion of transporters, for example, a high priority for money that can well be proved to be a national advantage. A respectable president. I'll recommend it at the end of the bill to be treated at the highest level. The welfare committee and to the 2nd. I sincerely and sincerely hope that the matter will be well established and discussed there, so that we will be able to discuss it again at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u76	President. Thank you. A minister for the talk and for putting up this fancy and very important matter of Congress. I wanted to come up to state my support for the matter, and I look forward to getting it on the welfare committee for a discussion. This is very important because in modern times, people are becoming extremely isolated. We see this in our neighboring countries, such as Britain, where there is a special secretary of loneliness and in many parts of the Western world, we see people becoming isolated, experiencing a lot of loneliness, no purpose. It is a real problem that exists, as shown in the talk earlier. One reason we may be working too hard is that we are working too hard. We have far too little time to spend with our friends, with our family, to care for our interests, and to do what we really burn to do in life. There's a very little time left. We worry too much about the future, understandably. We've been through a financial collapse, and we've seen society sort of collapse, and we know that it's all over the future, and we don't see that the government has a very vision of the future or that people's concerns are being handled well enough. Young people do not see the same opportunities as those of the previous generations. I think it is important to ask ourselves if it is not yet time to face the possibility that something in our community may be seriously wrong. This is not a normal development. This is not the development that we want to continue, so this is an important step. We have to admit that psychological services are part of a preventive measure that is overly important, but this is one part of the solution. We also need to look at the bigger picture and see how we can really change this community so that young people can see the opportunity and future here, where life is about more than just working and taking an endless part in this economic machine that we have set up. This is my input into this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u77	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for presenting this bill about a change in health insurance law, which aims to seal the net further and bring us closer to the goal of meeting people living in the invisible, untouchable trials, psychological difficulties. Of course, the bill reflects our discussion and the growing attitudes we mark in society and in its own way counter to the health of the people of the country and how we have responded to our medical systems, the emphasis we have put in the effort to provide the best for the inhabitants of the land from cradle to grave. A respectable president. At times, we often mention that man is the intelligent. There is often evidence that this is so. But the human chain is quite complex. It's not just the body that drives us. There are also thoughts, thoughts, feelings, and a number of smells that are also involved. These factors, in the historical context, have not been highly esteemed, but our eyes are opening up to the importance of looking in a much more general way to our health and well - being. As a bill report on the bill, the aim is for the general psychological services to fall under Iceland's health insurance system and thus be provided on the same terms as other health services, but psychological services are now in general the exception of the public payment of health insurance. However, psychological services are supplied with health insurance for children under 18 years of age who are being treated by psychologists. They are using benecids on the psychiatric and health insurance agreements of Iceland, but there's a considerable number of offenders and psychologists, even though it's a very acceptable option. Psychological services have changed rapidly in recent years. I remember a time when psychologists were almost not considered a health - care profession. They were somewhere outside there, perhaps closer to social service or something else. About 25 years ago, it was considered normal, even likely, for psychologists to work in the clinic, be a part of the medical profession, and work alongside nurses and doctors. This is changed, and now psychologists are recognized as key health care providers. It is a cause for rejoicing. Mental - health experts, even for decades, have fought for the recognition of their work, services, and methods. For decades, they have endeavored to attract the attention of officials and the public to the importance of part of the psychological treatment service, as well as the service of mental - health professionals and other public services. The importance of making it easier for the public to seek psychiatric services, as noted by the psychologist's organization, should be the same as with other health care providers. Such concerns are of particular concern to older children and young people, as a traveler then rightly entered. We've drawn this attention, like others, to our group in the United States, and we've wanted to expand this service in a formal way into the school system. We proposed the 148th legislation proposal for the introduction of psychology services to all high school. This has not been formal. They pursue some 20,000 high school studies in Iceland, and as a result, many students in this group face many challenges in their lives. It is clear that if a student's spiritual well - being is not good, this has a negative effect on their learning course, may increase the likelihood of elimination or significantly delay the end of study, but high rates of withdrawal are of special concern in Iceland. Like what? A messenger entered his speech is a major concern that suicide is the reason for a high death rate at the age of 18◯25. Of course, it is more important than tears, a disaster for a person to think that this must be true, that he is not aware of the problem, that he overlooks the symptoms. There will be scars and questions that will be difficult to answer. Why did it have to go so far? Regarding this type of service within the school system, the elementary school program serves as a rule of specific laws. Some high schools have impressed their students and have given them support in this regard, even with union support. There are examples of this. That is very good, but we certainly want this to be part of the general health care program. It would be wish it could be as soon as possible. There may be a class of young men. A traveling overseer, at the 148th Council, asked me to remind him that this service was also written into college. In the past, there has been a special focus for the government to increase the number of psychiatrists in the medical profession, within health care. This is very well, and it is part of the national mental health policy. This, of course, is vital. But it is far from reaching all those who seek psychological services that need it, for their health. Bioavailabilityal psychological services, outside and within the health care system, are important for the public and, in the light of the gravely serious position of large groups, especially young people, do not tolerate action. I mentioned the young people at the age of 18. Young girls have research based on difficulties and younger women, such as nuts. A traveler came on, suffers more from depression than was the case with their female sister in Europe. A respectable president. Icelanders have a number of questionable values, e.g. European and even global estimates of the use of various medications, antidepressants, hypnotics, sedatives and hyperexcited medicinal products. This discussion is thought - provoking and may directly relate to it. It should not be said that drugs have made a difference in the health of many who suffer from mental, mental, and emotional illnesses and undoubtedly save lives. However, the use in this country is excessive. Perhaps it is because measures, equally good or better, have not been available to the public. Thus, Resept often becomes the solution, and the matter will be settled. These unconcerned facts should motivate us to look for a variety of ways, to give other emphasis. But there's a lot to be reluctant about. We're chained to the wood of the habit, but we're supposed to take seriously all signals, all warnings, all those bells, and all the lights that flame and follow new paths. The development in the North countries is far higher in total treatments, in which group treatments are even increasingly used to achieve more efficiency, followed by increasing treatments in the closer environment of people to prevent disease development and to promote and maintain the inclusion of psychiatric populations. How important it is to encourage people to continue to activity in the community! That's what we've been doing. We've gone a few ways. We have a powerful labour system that's supposed to grab people before this problem comes along, and we're highlighting it even more. We have also gone into the medical profession to prescribe so - called motor lizards, which are a wide range of resources, rehabs, and psychological treatments. But we have hesitated too much in this regard because the reminders are so serious that we watch each day. In neighboring countries, treatment and support are increasingly being moved out of the standard treatment environment, out of clinics, from hospitals, to prevent problems that may not be manageable and that will not become chronic. A respectable president. As noted earlier, the battle between psychologists has lasted for years. They have their crusade even. Consult the Contestant Commission, who has ruled with them and has thought that psychological services should be viewed in the same way as health care by a mental - health professional, there is a process of discrimination that cannot be explained properly. To this day, governments have been able to avoid taking sides in this direction, heading for a greater number of options. This may be due to some fear of cost by governments and simply toppling with high - sounding ears. This is a lot of thought because specialised psychological services and diagnosis, treatment and intervention have been shown to reduce the health - care costs in many ways. How so? Yes, with fewer hospitalisations, fewer disability individuals, increased work progress, reduced drug use, and improved physical and mental health, higher quality of life. Understanding the importance of health care, which is not based on a narrow norms of the traditional concept's interpretation. Similarly, in view of the good results and adherence, the subsidies of psychological services are increasing, as they call them, are good results. During the second election, all political parties agreed to improve public access to psychological services. Previously, unions and unions have expressed the same opinion. We, a respectable president, should unite in fulfilling the promises and in supporting this proposal, hastening its progress in the treatment phase of the Generals and agreeing to the first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u78	Mr. President. Especially am I glad that this matter has been presented. It has always been very peculiar, and in reality reflect prejudice in the medical system, that psychological services have not been treated in the same way as other health care services, including the payment of health insurance, and the public being ensured comparable access to this vital service, such as other health care services. It's somehow vivid for this, as shown in the speeches. Councilmen before, that at the same time as we're setting up a Northern national and even European record in pill eating, no money should be spent to attack the root of the problem, to direct people in a psychological service at an affordable price. We know that today the cost of psychological services is simply beyond the reach of many homes. As a result, people turn away or cannot take advantage of that vital ministry. It's particularly important to me that when we look at the context between such preemptive measures and the cost at different levels of society at different levels, at other levels of health care, it is so intense. One of the main reasons today for disability are spiritual disorders of some kind. We know that it allows us to achieve so much better results, just as it allows people to access psychological services at a controlled price. We know and hear within the school system that by increasing the availability of students that psychologist services can greatly reduce the likelihood of school leaving. We are well - acquainted with the connection between the loss of school and the likelihood of ending disability later, even after just a few years. It's a sign that includes. the large number of young people on our disability. We stand out as different from other North countries, since it is often part of a group that has had some psychological difficulties, was released from education, and eventually sought into disability. Today, we face the fact that the incidence of disability is here very much and much more than that in our neighboring countries. We have really failed to do our responsibility to seek out other ways to support people rather than merely to ensure that it is carried out through the disability of the health system, that we use especially the mental - health system and the services of psychologists to help them find a solution to their problems rather than wait until the problems have become severe, even imperishable, that people are forced by disability to support themselves financially. We have seen predictions that the cost of the biofuel system may increase up to 50 billion dollars. This year, in the next decade or so - from the 65 billion we have at the annual expense of the microenergy pension system today. It tells me that there is a great deal of value in trying to stop such a trend or that project from becoming a reality. Surely, this would be a very big, important step in that direction. To me, this is one of the best examples of how we have the potential for investing in the health of our nation, investing in our health, and, at the same time, a significant reduction in the health costs that may later come to our health. At the end of this category, expenses may already save a very large amount of money in the government, in the health system, in the microenergy pension system, and thus may be one of the most profitable investments we can achieve, an investment in our health. They do not speak of the tremendous impact this can have on people's quality of life, on social participation, on the possibility of sharing in society, sharing in a job market, avoiding social isolation that is often associated with such problems. This is a national agreement, Mr. President, and I really hope and rejoice at the great support it gives to the number of members of the council who make it a success of their history. I think we only need eight more votes to finish this case, and hopefully we'll succeed at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u79	A respectable president. I'm gonna like others thank you very much for the contributions of this bill and would have liked to be with an importer on it and to accept all its primary objectives - and then I wondered why I'm coming up here and spending time when we're all really together on this. But I just wanted to say that much work has taken place in that direction. A mental - health program specifically addressed the need to increase the number of psychologists at medical clinics, such as the case. paritaprevir The Guvigner of Brjánsson Brukánsson came in. There is still something missing in the country, but I think there are psychologists working at most of the clinics in the capital area. Then I'd like to mention, as we talked about this week, telepathy and the possibilities of that kind, that when it comes to this health service, psychological services are like any other health care service. I think we'd better start shoving our sleeves and using our technology to do that. In fact, the importance of taking the next steps is clearly stated in the mental - health - care committee that the next step following the development of a mental - health professional should include the payment of psychological treatment for more than children, as is the case today. I believe that what is measured here is just a normal continuation of the work that has taken place in the past few years on these topics, and I appreciate the number of transporters on the bill and how many people who have expressed themselves today have taken care of the situation. I would also like to mention that I believe that it is normal for a health - care environment to be mixed, i.e. I think it's normal that health care is at the expense of the public, but it may be varied. Of course, we know this very well, e.g. In dentistry and psychological services, there are generally private people, often dictators, but also dictators who have joined themselves in some business. I don't see anything wrong with it, and I think it's only natural for individuals to have freedom about where they go to health care. As far as mental - health services are concerned, it is customary for private people to handle it more, although it is also natural for me to be at public health care centers as well as private health care centers. Then there are psychologists in the mental field of the Land Hospital, and people can come into a walking ward and interview with a psychologist. But I think here we are more likely to be looking at a treatment in which psychologists treat as a complete treatment, rather than a single interview, and it is only natural for some kind of certificate to come from a specialist or family physician, as mentioned in the bill, which is essential for the person's ability to go and use the services of the relevant party. I'd also like to mention -- I think that there's definitely talk about the mental behavioral treatment of emotions in the report, can that fit? Yeah. It is discussed in the report and in a mental - health program in the Committee. To illustrate, it is one of the primary clinical options involved in a number of mental - health issues. I also recall that I think that there was a former health minister, Óttarr Proppé, who spoke of such treatment as part of our educational work. I remember how I liked it, and I also know the full discussion that teachers and school society often say here and no further because we're going to put everything in the schools somehow. But with the opportunity to go through a mental - behavior course, I can testify to how many times it has been good for you to know how to use these tools and tools in everyday life. I would also like to mention that I feel that there is good reason to see if such things can be placed in the school system and, in fact, help our children learn more about how to work with their own feelings. I don't think there's any reason to extend the discussion any further. I'm just saying I'm supporting this case, and I think it's time we took this step and celebrate how many have responded to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u80	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Haraldsdóttir for her introductory. There are some things I would like to mention. I would like to agree with the words she fell here and immediately thank for the encouragement. In effect, I'm just going to stress that this bill is not put to the head of the clinic, not at all. It is of utmost importance to have strong health care, that the closer we feel to the environment, but we must also recognize that human health care is difficult, especially in the country. We traveled on the Way of the Backing, including, entered the clinics and hospitals, and they found it difficult to obtain or acquire psychological services. Of course, new technology, a source of joy, is also being used, and we were shown to do the same. It's important to try to communicate well. We transporters are about to face the problem and reality that we see. Me and what. paritaprevir Brjánsson má. The magnitude of the consumption of antidepressants in this country, especially among women, and in the difficult situation of young people, was well considered. That's a problem. We can do better than that. One thing cannot rule out another, and we should continue to support our powerful health - care providers, as they are also the key to strengthening the landscape and the core and service that we want to provide for our people throughout the country. Then I'd like to agree with what. A senator with regard to a wide range of business plans, whether in education or in well - being, but especially in health matters. We are to ensure that, in all cases, those on a lower salary have equal and safe access to health care. It is of utmost importance that the State, the public, ensures the ministry, then both the public and the private people who can provide it. [[The president calls.]] By doing so, we can contribute to even stronger well - being systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once and again admits that even though I was referring to my health care professional, I view this matter as hard as possible. A senator, that there's absolutely no head at all. I think it's absolutely necessary that there are psychologists at the clinic. Of course, we have to face the fact that in some parts of a small country, it may be difficult to employ such experts, but as I said earlier, we should use the technology and make use of it. There are some very safe ways to provide such service, for example. Psychological services, speech services, and so forth. Because I'm starting to talk about it, I also found it interesting to read the committee's opinion of the mental - health program. There were several emphasises on a multidisciplinary team. I think there is also reason to look to it, though we're here primarily looking at psychologists, that inside our health care, we generally think about a cross-cutting approach to caring for that health care. I do not think that this matter is somehow placed on the head of the clinic. I think this can work together. Mental - health care services are more likely to be the first stop, as health care should be. If people need more or longer treatment, they need to be able to consult psychologists in town and get subsidies from health insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u82	Mr. President. That's exactly the way it is. I'm counting a approach. A candidate is correct, health professionals are also required to use a multidisciplinary approach, and experts, whether doctors, nurses, psychologists, sociologists, are to be consulted. I point out that the focus must be on our young people. If we are to set priorities somewhere, it is for those who have social and financial problems. That is correct, there are waiting lists in the country, but it is also worth the fact that they are very long here on the southwest corner, both in the Kragans, our ideals. Senator, as in Reykjavík. We can also use the technology there. Not everyone needs to be directed into a living room, for technology can also solve very many problems here; projects, waiting lists, etc., whether in the field of psychology or otherwise. My family and I have personal experience with the telecommunications of speech pathologists. If we look to the southern Westfjords, because there are several Norwegian-western district members in this hall, we will see what a tremendous change in the service of Patrekður and Bilddal when a contract was made to an independent acting body to improve the quality of speech sickness, speech pathologists. This allows more access to the region to experts through technology. We're supposed to use it. We're not supposed to be afraid of that. We're supposed to take these steps and activate everyone to do so, both individually acting as public partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u83	A respectable president. I agree with that when talking about priorities in these matters and priorities for young people. But I feel that this kind of service is important to me and that we should not really have to set priorities. But when it comes to our young people, there is also a tendency to be involved with psychologists in high school. I think there's an important point in that subject too. When it comes to priorities or how we spend most of our money, some health - care professionals also have a very interesting work to do. I think that both in the health care of the capital area, as well as in private health care that I know about, at least here in the capital area, there are groups of treatments in mind, behavioral treatments where people are being trained to use various tools and tools in their spiritual distress. It is also a way to make good use of the money and the services of most people. I strongly recommend that this be done in most parts of the world. I think me and what. A senator may agree on this matter, as perhaps in others, that may be. I hope we have a good discussion on this subject. I expect that. The welfare committee is given some comments on the subject, which at first appear to be rather positive. I can't figure it out, at least not at this point, what might be negative about this case or what needs to be considered better, but it will be evident in the process. I wish. The welfare committee is well - equipped to deal with these exciting issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u84	A respectable president. I thank the 1st manifester for the contributions of this bill. I'm very happy to have reached the party list in this case, because it's a matter that stands close to my heart and we graduates have talked about; it's good to have gotten along. Actually, it's being carried into the tray stream because there's so many things that have been said in this discussion that I'd like to say, but it's nice to reach a few extra points in here. It is essential to improve access to psychiatric services and by this procedure, by becoming part of the social security payment, to improve access to professional services. Men's health - care programs have begun, but this is more difficult in the country than in the capital area. A little over a year ago, there was an agreement in the Sanitary Club with a psychiatrist through telecommunications. As a result, the surgeon general's office was unable to accept the technology to be used. In 2017 or 2018, we have not been prepared for it. This was delayed, but it has started now, and the first steps have been taken. It's a good thing it's started. It made you feel a little sad when it happened. There was technology and people who were willing to do their job. These psychologists were caring for individuals in their own area, but in the case of public members, parties to a contract, the system was not good enough and had to be researched more carefully. At least it's on its way, and that's good. Mental - health experts are a very good addition to teamwork. As the discussion shows, such services should be available at every clinic and available to people of all ages. It has been established, and very well reported in the report, the challenges we face regarding mental distress and mental problems among young people. Studies show that there is a great increase in anxiety and depression and suicidal thoughts in young people, and we need to take action. This is where we're meeting them from the age of 18 with payment and increased access. I think we need to focus more on prevention, putting some of the money that will be saved for a long time to use psychiatrists within our health care providers. They are actually the first steps and are to be taken from high school and out of school. I know it's being a good job in many places, but we need to put the focus more on it. We also need to remember that in surveys, e.g. Research and analyses that regularly study the basic schools of the country in all Icelandic children show that more young people in Iceland do not experience feelings of distress or anxiety or depression, but there are, of course, times in the lives of these children. Then there are the questions: Have you ever thought about taking your life, or have you done something to that end, attempted suicide, or such? Young people are much thinking about life and life, and the discussion has become much more open than it was before, for example. Twenty years, thank you. I worked at the National Hospital's Psychiatry at the Dementia Department 20 years ago, on a Attune. It was prejudiced against mental illness. The change that has taken place during those 20 years is tremendous and only for the good. Now I'm going to a juvenile convention with young people and talking to them, and they say, " We need a psychiatrist at school, we want to talk about it when we're worried, and when we're heartbroken or when we're feeling bad - and they're talking about community media and it's all. We want professionals to discuss these things. If you had spoken that way 20 years ago, you would have been amazed. Of course, someone did, but not to the extent that it is done today. This increase in frequency may be due to a higher level of discussion and a better pattern of thinking. It's less about teen drinking and stuff like that. Kids looked for it at the time to cool off and deal with their feelings, but now we're calling out for professionals who're just good, great. I just want to come on the opportunities for the future, young people's opportunities. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen discussed opportunities and spoke of young people seeing fewer opportunities in the future. The opportunity is so many, or that's how I think it is. When we were young, we in the early part of this room, a man went to high school and then to college, and many walked in his parents'footsteps, taking a path that they knew. Today, the debate over the fourth industrial revolution is that the work being offered today will not be there in ten years or what it is. The whole world is under. You can study at any time, and you can even develop your own study line in high school. It also leads to insecurity that you have to shape your future for yourself, that it is completely yours. It can cause insecurity and anxiety. I think we also need to put our arms around them in this regard. There are two sides on the crown. Prevention - with many of them in the school and community - is under way. I want to enter the school program. Teachers, nursery teachers, high school nurses are all working well, but I think it's good to add a shrink, even if they're in school too. In the country, psychologists come for some days a month, are not part of the school team, of the school staff, so perhaps this same flow does not form in the teamwork. But there comes the defense strong inside. This bill, if it becomes law and psychology services become part of social security, is taken by giant steps, good steps. I hope we get together. I hope--I agree with what. paritaprevir Bryndís thing about the Haraldsdóttir, I think she said it, or at least I interpret it like that - that this work on the welfare committee will be good and rewarding. You want to sit on a health committee these days with a medical conference, with a welfare technique - there are big guards ahead of you, these are good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Class of K. Gylfadóttir daughter for the speech. She has a lot of experience in these areas, and it is important for the United States to hear a game of experience coming here and sharing experience and putting it into their heads. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator's high level of health care is important and is a challenge to us during the council. How exciting it is to be on the very welfare committee right now to handle certain matters there! This too is taking steps into the future. We're dealing with the issues that matter to us and trying to be a little ahead, be a little forward. But I also want to agree with the surgeon general. I'm not criticizing the office myself, but I've heard it more than from the Cape that the system had something to do with it. It took too much time for us to get up in the ministry, no doubt just trying to protect certain interests, but we have to trust local health care also to do certain tasks. I ask: Is it possible to do more to rely on the independence of the local medical institutions, or the national health care system, both to deal with such issues as this, or that general in order to strengthen prevention? Also, the fact that I think that, because the senator pointed to research and analysis, the research that has been published on a regular basis from 1991 has shown us that prevention, including prevention. In basic alcohol and drug schools, there have been progressive results. It is evident that from 1991 to today, we had one of the most drug abuses among young people. [[The president calls.]] We now have one of the least drug abuses among young people in Europe because of prevention. [[The president calls.]] I think that's a good example of prevention being important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, asking if there is more to do to strengthen the clinic. Health at the Cape of Hornfjord is still being run by a team member in the model, so the Country Society runs health care. There are advantages and problems. The problem is, we're very connected to the system. This is a bit like one little dot that's trying to fire itself and has to knock on many doors. But there are many things you can do. Our communication services depend on this, too, with our telecommunications. We may find it easier to negotiate with different tables, but we have done well lately. We are, for example. having a contract with a gerontologist who regularly comes and reviews our affairs so that we are on the right track. It has been difficult to reach negotiations with pediatrics. We could have more doors open for us to come to a better understanding and with professionals, experts, to come east. But with telepathy, telecommunications, and so on, we can solve a lot of things, for it doesn't always have to be a local person, just having access to it. About research and analysis - what we fear, I think, today is the woe. We used to deal with the alcohol and drugs problem, like what happened. A senator came in earlier, but now we must not fall asleep on guard against new ways to come. By promoting prevention in general, we can stop at them too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u87	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, for the review, and for a fine discussion on the matter of health insurance taking into consideration therapy. As the report shows, the goal of the bill is for the general psychological services to depend on Iceland's health insurance system to be provided on the basis of other health services. Psychological services today are excluded from the public payment of health insurance. As we know, in contrast with other health care services, psychological services are primarily available in private psychiatric professions without official support for those in need of the ministry. The bill is positive as far as it goes. The report says that the common problem of suicide and mental illness is a serious problem, which should be taken into account here. The causes are many and varied, but it is clear that they will be faced with the problem. Thus, health prevention is of great importance as well as physical and mental health care. The key element is to provide access to preventive measures and increase the possibility of instant exposure to such diseases as depression and anxiety that appear to be increasing among young people, of course, with a serious concern. Just as visible ones are exposed, invisible diseases need to be met. Thus, quality of life can be improved. Of course, these are very noble and good goals that I take to heart. It adds that about 33% of people cannot afford mental - health services and thus consult a mental - health professional. It's that I know all too much and I certainly need to respond to it. As I said before, the bill is positive as far as it goes. But in my opinion it doesn't go far enough, and in fact, the important profession, which is social advisers, differs. In this country, all treatments are referred to as psychology services, although a large part of the active cohesionists are clinical advisers. Psychologists, social advisers, and nurses all receive professional privileges from a surgeon, and they need the same degree or degrees of learning to obtain that privilege. All the classes, and indeed family experts, also share the same overall treatment according to the same profession, so it is very misleading to me to talk about psychological services where it refers only to one of the professions. It would be more appropriate to refer to the expression "Curel " and to indicate that those who have completed their master's degrees from an established university and received acceptable employment rights here in the country, by a surgeon, a social worker, a psychologist, a nurse, would fall under that payment. Apart from only one profession, there is really a difference between professionals and all other professions that stand equal. This bill would also provide a serious competitive position by a health - care professional where the thousands of clients whom today turn to social workers would certainly turn to psychologists instead, in order to obtain their service. In this way, the General Assembly is saying that this bill remains the law, that social workers are not equal to psychiatrists in total therapy. In this way Iceland would take a different course than the one known in our neighboring countries. Mr. President. I think it's not easy on the bill, though it's a good idea. I believe that this will be a very detailed issue within the Committee, that there is actually a difference between professionals and their competitiveness. I'd like to encourage the committee to consider seriously whether it's not right to make the adjustment to this bill that social workers will be under there, along with psychologists.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u88	Mr. President. I'd like to inform you that I've recently had a meeting with social advisers who have been reviewing these views in part understandable. I believe it is important and natural that this committee simply reviews these matters. However, it should not be that the great prince's point, the essence of this matter, should stop the matter. However, I strongly recommend that the views that were understandable by sociologists then operating independently, be reviewed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this information and rejoices at it. A senator has discussed this matter with a social worker. I'm sure they've expressed their concerns about this. I don't think there's any chance that this case will delay or stop, although it may be possible to bring these professionals under this bill. The matter is very important to me, and we cannot as lawmakers correct the competitiveness of these parties in this way by separating a particular profession that is most important to us. I'm glad that this will be discussed within the Committee, and I hope that this will be considered in a positive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u90	Mr. President. My friend Bibba, on Bjöllva Street, comes to see me sometimes, and I misspoken myself earlier. I said sociologists. I'd like to say have social workers, and that's exactly what we're talking about here. I point to the fact that I met a social worker the other day, and I've been in some stock exchange. I think it's important that the committee reviews their viewpoint and then considering that we're here on treatment. We are discussing how we can help our people, whether young or in the second age, a particular service that is urgent, socially needed for us, as well as for the people themselves. This will be reviewed and in what way a social worker should render them appropriate treatment care. This is probably my opinion, and it's part of the symmetry involved in each committee activity that is expanding the subject, drawing a point of view. I feel that, as I've said many times,..... kind of the most fun part of the work here in the council wall. That is where we have this opportunity to have a conversation with a misbehavior but also between us about how we can improve and change things for the better. This is part of it, and I encourage the committee to examine these views as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. Hv. A senator has a positive view that this will be considered in the committee. It's important to me, and I appreciate it. Social advisers perform a variety of services, important services. This is shown in the report, and we know it, that the cost of society is high by suicide and by other factors. It is vital that depressed individuals and others have access to such health care without cost. We can see from the figures mentioned there, as I mentioned earlier, that 33% just can't afford to get help in these matters. Hv. A senator spoke of the importance of extending this to the committee. I'm all about it, and I'm glad she mentioned it. For example, I can mention the case of social workers whose marriage counsel is given. There are companies in a family consulting field where specialists in social workers work to help couples cope with various problems. In many cases they can help families that would otherwise have broken up and ended up in divorce. We know that it is expensive for society and that it affects children and families in general. So it's a big deal to work on people having access to such advice, and I think it's important that social advisers fall under the group that's being discussed here under the health insurance of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u92	Mr. President. I'm just going to get involved in this great discussion. As you can see from the number of senators who are involved in the case, quickly recognizable from all categories, at least Not much disagreement over a prince's ass. Transporters come up with. I can totally agree, for many years I have spoken for the fact that this service is as important as other health care services and that it is paid from mutual funds as it is. In this regard, it is of natural importance that it has been improved in recent years. Health care is increasingly taking psychologists into work and a team. This has proved to be very effective. In turn, some psychologists have searched school, which has also proved helpful. True, it is on the basis of health care, but it is very important. As many have come into play, when we have problems with mental and mental health problems, including those in other places, that there is a variety of treatment options and that we have a choice of service. Of course, in many cases, some problems do not resolve with total treatment alone, and we need to take medication. At that time, the cooperation between psychologists and other health care professionals, usually mental - health professionals, occurs very strongly. It's also very important. But like the rest of them. There are also other members of the health care facility who offer an interview treatment and help patients with it. Of course it is. Councilmen well know that the conversation is -- I hope I'm not exposing some professional secrets - one of the strongest tools for most healthcare professionals in treating patients. Regarding services such as psychology services, it is important that if and when this is taken into the general payment system, we should first consider that there will be an extended psychological service. In this way they will be resources available to people everywhere in the country. But you also need to consider the outcome of at least The directive, if not the legal environment, that such factors are expected to be taken into account, is expected to be part of a remote service, for the interview treatment. I will emphasize this at work on a welfare committee. The report speaks of healthy young people, suicides, and so forth. Because there is a friend I know very well, I would like to mention that psychological services have been used to this very little in the service of older people. This is likely to be part of it, for the cost is a threshold. Yet, some of the Land Hospital's walking wards and Hospitals offer psychological services in walking departments for older people, who are then at the custody of the Land Hospital, and thus subversive in accordance with this. That's fine. However, in service to older people, where the load of medicine may be even higher than in younger people, it will be even more important to be able to handle services such as interview therapy and often by reducing the number of drugs that have the effect for the better. I look forward to working with this case rather at the moment. The welfare committee. I'd just like to finally mention what some members of the council have come on, if it were flat on this mission to hang more professions at the bill. I personally feel that there would be a pretty good reason for that, especially since there are a very large number of transporters and their goals all can have been beyond the mental - health program, without even having much thought of other professions or such. But, of course, there is. This is discussed by the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the insight he provides us into this group of subjects through experience and knowledge. I especially want to thank him for bringing out the group we call older citizens, the older people. In fact, research shows that there is deep sadness and often loneliness. Method of administration, like the dog. A senator came in, often very strong, but we also have certain suspicions among older people about seeking psychiatric cures, seeking the services of psychologists, possibly because of suspicion or prejudice. Medical staff have told me, and I understand that tests show that too. I think there would also be something that would be good for a welfare committee and a good thing. A senator would record within the committee, i.e. To try to see them emphasis, though I have, not a question, put the most emphasis on the young people in my speech, because it burns most on us in my opinion right now. Among young boys is the rising suicide rate and the massive consumption of young women with all kinds of drugs. So it's an interesting party. Then there is the other. A senator mentioned, and I want to agree with him, i.e. A cross-cutting team. I think it's extremely important that the individuals are formed. But they will be looked out of the individual, not by the experts, but by the way of service, across the trade, the individual needs. There may be a very different approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for answering. Yes, it can at times be a basis for prejudice in our society, and in effect, I don't think that we have a psychological service in the credit system is in nature prejudiced against mental problems. I think you're right. Then, if we associate it to the older people, who may be prejudiced against mental health or mental health at all, we may even have a double problem because if we add up the injury or get together, age, and prejudice toward mental illness, and imagine that there are some kind of multiple influences between them, an elderly person who has a mental illness is well equipped to face such a double challenge, and may end up with dire consequences. For while the rate of suicide is relatively common, or too common, let us say, among younger people, it is also high among older ones. The problem, however, is much hidden there and is silent. But there really is a problem in that group. Regarding what the senator said about teamwork and that the team should be on the basis of the users, I completely agree with the senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u95	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to come up to describe my satisfaction with the bill and thank you to the first missionary, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. I'm a co-sponsor on the case, and I'm celebrating the case, and I have nothing but the right to say. I only cut what was said. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin earlier, the friend that social advisers and nurses should be under the same line. Perhaps there is something, as noted in the case of a merchant and, in return, that would need to be considered on the committee. It's good to find out what's going on. A senator is good at that. I especially rejoice over the matter because I am very interested in the good health of people, especially those who are maintained by the disease called alcoholism. Since prejudice was mentioned earlier, prejudice against that disease is prejudice. I had the hope that it would decrease over the years, but it seems to go in waves like so many other things, in my opinion, and today I feel that there is some significant prejudice about alcoholism. I have to say, at the moment, that I have been dealing with the highest. HCP on alcohol dependence and treatment. The minister of psychology and mental disorder speaks of the fact that when I feel that it is often understood, whether there is first, chicken, or egg in it, it is often necessary to work together. But in my mind about that disorder, alcoholism, psychiatric disorders are usually almost the result of consumption, depending on the materials used. I spoke of it in the council's work yesterday. It has been shown by electric cigarettes or seams, that they are being used for mixing oil cannabis and other items that can be placed in oil and smoking through electronic cigarettes. I have reports from the treatment sector that there have been significant cases of people being hooked on such substances through electronic cigarettes. It tells you that it's always changing, always changing how it develops, how it consumes, and how it's taken. This may not be what it was 30, 40, 50 years ago when it was just boozed in water. This is an enormous development. Although the drugs in the drug world are very related, many of them are just different names, the trends in drugs and the way substances are consumed vary greatly. I quoted a story I saw from the United States, where most U.S. states have somehow legalized cannabis, although in different countries, that there is a market for commercial resources such that it counts as billions of dollars to get people to take these drugs. But I welcome the bill, allowing people to consult a psychologist without charge, or to get it into health insurance. Because I mentioned alcoholism, it is very common for those who have this problem to start with often psychologists or psychiatrists before undergoing treatment, either alcohol or drug therapy. For some reason, that is often the case. People do not seek where they should start, but psychologists can help people and direct them to treat them. Often, people who have very deep and difficult habits do not have a lot of money between their hands. Hence, searching for help may help when there is little or no cost. That's why I'm celebrating the bill, and in my mind it's just part of the prevention process. It's got a lot of preemptive value to put it through and get it out. Also, as far as the root line is concerned, the word for psychologist or psychology is very broad and broad. You see, as I told you before, the development of disease, chemical evolution, and so forth is constantly changing, and we always need to be on the watch. Wherever used, prevention has shown that it does a great deal of good. As noted earlier by the prime minister, they have contributed to the lower use of drugs by young people. But this is how prevention is needed. Precautionary prevention is always needed. I learned well in the fall when I was giving a special discussion about prevention, that it is this work from cradle to grave in connection with prevention, that there must be constant work on prevention, and of course the psychological program plays a key role. I'm not going to have my case much further. I rejoice in this matter, and I have strong faith that it will succeed. It only seems to me that the number of people from all categories seems to me, which is the case. As a result, I want to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u96	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in income tax laws, No. 90/2003, with subsequent changes (removal volume rule and vacation home). The bill's on the roof. It's 84 p.m. Artists are down. The members of the assembly, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Njáll Friðbertsson, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aranna. As noted in a report, it should be possible that the bill of the same material has been presented several times, four times. So, this is the fifth down. We transporters hope we can reach at least ... longerthanthelasttime. In the 17th. a law on income taxes is a requirement for sales of housing. Salivation is a difference between sale prices and stock prices taking into account the expiry and previously obtained goods. Well, stock prices are expensive property. The principle is that if you've had the sold house for less than two years, it's considered profit from its sale for taxable pay on a year's sale. If you have had the sold home for two years or more, your profits are not taxable. This law applies only to the sale of an apartment house owned by people, individuals, or couples. Furthermore, it is required that the ensign laid down in this bill be removed. In other words, if an apartment building exceeds a certain amount of size, the sale of an apartment - building tax is mandatory regardless of the time of ownership. The size boundary is 600 m3 for an individual and 1,200 m3 for a married couple, with the tax due to the area of housing over this threshold. However, this so - called volume rule applies only when housing is sold that has not been for its own use. The above volume rule at its base is due to the 4th category 3.g. track No. 7/1972. A bill that later became available to the law was suggested to distribute the tax burden in a more righteous way than it had been used to. For the recording of the volume rule, tax freedom was limited to a period of ownership and increased as it was longer until the total tax freedom was achieved. It can be assumed that the volume rule was mainly intended to match the status of the more important assets. There are a wide range of ways in which the taxation of housing or use rights can be done in our principal control countries. In Denmark, the limits of taxation are targeted to a specific area. No such rule can be found in Norwegian legislation but only according to the time of ownership. In some U.S. states, house - to - house sales markets are open. There is no tax on such trades in the United Kingdom. The difference in taxation may be expected to be determined by local circumstances. For a long time, part of local property has taken place as well as in recent decades as in vacation homes. Of course, the other part of the brother's is a pension right. After working years, it is common for people to reduce housing and deposit in savings by selling property. The money incorporated in this way is often meant to be used for the household's affairs as the night of life passes. Little wonder, then, that the system of volume has seriously affected older citizens who are retired and who no longer enjoy employment. The bill suggests that the above volume rule will be removed from the income tax law. If the bill is legalized, the taxable market will be controlled by the sale of houses and summer houses, I'll draw attention to it - only by the time of ownership, i.e. whether it lasted two years or less but not at the same size. The objective of the bill is to simplify the income tax laws and taxpayers and, on the other hand, to meet the aforementioned status of older people. Madam President. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that when this case was to be treated last time, the governor sent in a review. By permission of the highest power. I think it's time to quote the comments that are spoken of as follows: But if the bill is accepted unchanged, it will be a simple tax service on this matter. However, it should be kept in mind that there may be a possibility of loss of tax income, i.e. tax revenues for the State - ◆ If property is purchased and sold rapidly. Madam President. After these discussions here today, I suggest that the bill be sent to the material treatment of the economic and business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u97	Madam President. Thank you. Kárason I've got some questions for you. I understand this as if the two-year rule is going to stay, i.e. In regard to property or housing, whether as a vacation home or as an apartment home. I think it's a very noble purpose, if it's intended to simplify the tax system. I'm 100 percent of that. However, the regulation itself does not apply when it comes to house - to - house use. So the second goal, which makes older people more comfortable for a lifetime, applies to older people who now have more possessions than the property they possess in which that property seems to be excluded according to the volume rules. I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u98	Mr. President. Just to make it clear, you're right. A senator says the two - year rule holds. There is some misunderstanding, I suppose, among the senator, if I have not misunderstood it. We're talking about simplifying the tax system - that's right. The change in volume rule is to eliminate it and reach vacation homes. That may be one of the biggest changes. It is true, however, that the two - year rule is maintained. As long as an apartment building is used for its own use, the volume - if that is the case - is not important. A senator was talking about it when it's the right thing to do. Senator. But this will change something else, especially property, such as vacation homes, quite definitely, and other apartment property. Of course, it is clear that here people have invested part of their life savings in an apartment house and then they want to get rid of it. We're coming to meet that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u99	Madam President. Thank you for the clear answers from what happened. Senator. I read it so that you can uncheck here a volume rule in the law now, but the system of volume that is currently in the law is not relevant for having an apartment house for your own use. It never works, this volume rule, except for an apartment building that you do not live in yourself, e.g. If you have more assets, are renting them out, it's worth it. With your own house or your own cottage you're not renting out, this volume rule never works. Now it's coming all the way out, so even though you have a lot of property and cottages and you're renting them out, you don't have to pay taxes for their goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u100	Madam President. I want to point 'em. Senator on 2 st. in the bill where transporters are actually changing 17. income taxes, in view of the fact that housing is all houses for long or shorter living, including temporary use. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator who has an apartment they have lived in for their own use for more than two years does not calculate the taxable interest of that sale. That's right. However, we are expanding this, and we want this to reach an apartment building according to the definition expressed in a-team 2. ..... Buildings are all houses for longer or shorter living, including leisure use, and we want to cancel the volume rule when it comes to these factors. I hope it's clear enough. I've enjoyed it, along with others, having some. A member of the Economic and Business Committee, and maybe we'll enjoy it when we get to the point where, when we do this, we'll have a nice talk there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u101	Madam President. I would like to recommend an interpretation of the legal environment for a national sale. With me, the carriers are cool. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government in preparing a review of laws and regulations for sale of farms and other crops, as well as for the wild. The objective of the review will include:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: a. to set clear rules that aim to avoid the sale of foreign people who don't have a legal home and a permanent home on land; b. to consider the general criteria, such as land size, land use and the number of soils permitted on the hands of the same people; c. To look to the environmental issues and regulations of public rights in all laws and to take them, including Based on specific conditions in agriculture, deserts and natural resources (such as water and ground temperature); d. to ensure that there are no differences between law and regulations Madam President. The matter has been presented in the past but has not been established, but the reason since its original implementation is unchanged, and in view of the fact that foreignmen still buy important property in Iceland - such as we remember. In fact, with Grimbres on the mountains and then on the land of weapons and elsewhere - there is reason for the matter to be settled and reassigned. It should not be surprising, then, that most countries set aside laws and rules that limit business dealings to property, especially agriculture. These rules include to ensure that, in some way, the government has a government control over land trade and a vision of possession of it. In many places it is emphasised on maintaining possession of land and resources in public, but governments in which the exclusive rights of the country are honored are many who are aware of the importance of maintaining land ownership in their own citizens. Increased awareness of the interaction between land ownership and resource rights has resulted in the loss of land ownership by landstones, some of which are now banning foreign trades. Other countries focus on clear limits and limitations in these areas, and in some cases, land sales are being tried to unwind. Figured as part of a country in South America, Africa, and Asia. In this discussion, political speculations related to the influence of rich people, international rings, and foreign countries have been mixed through the possession of land and resources. Such discussions, however, are a source of concern to people by the transboundary resources of the earth, especially by the importance of the resource that will result in becoming one of the most precious things in the future, i.e. The water. International prescriptions also confirm the value of possession of land and land, away from the resources of others involved in such a country. In this regard, it may be noted that good agricultural and agricultural land has become increasingly scarce and more valuable worldwide. A relatively small general debate has taken place here on these topics, and many questions remain to be asked. They do not merely deal with how to preserve agrienvironmental land in a world that looks forward to the need to feed billions of people under difficult conditions. The questions also turn to how to take possession of the land's deserts, wide, uninhabited, landscapes, natural and geological features, and on what basis the country should be evaluated. When we discuss the future vision for land and nation in these activities, land and resources are clearly crucial. According to Icelandic legislation, possession of land and possession of the resources of the property are in place. In the 3rd. the Act on Earth's Earth's research and use of natural resources from 1998 provides the basis for the possession of property rights to the earth's resources. In 1st. The laws of this law are defined as "any element of elements, chemical compounds and energy that can be processed from the earth, whether in solid, liquid, or airy form, and without regard to the temperature they may feel at ◯. This refers to groundwater and any other minerals, metals, hybrids, metal particles, coal, earth oils, natural gas, and other useful materials that may be known to us. While organizational authorities have the ability to set limits on resource use, there is the eye for the possession rights of an area of the country to be very decisive and result in an extensive private right to resource use. In this context, for specific water resources, you will need to reenact the state of the laws and regulations of this country. Icelanders still live in a legal environment that defines groundwater, from which they can include water. The local drinking water is given as part of the land. It is far too shortsighted to view this as a minor matter or as a question about a declaration's will on the part of a potential owner of the country. Total legislation has not yet been established that covers all water, surface water as well as groundwater, and that alters its policy. However, it is safe to assert that in the future this is one of the greatest interests of future generations here. In this context, there are also other aspects of public rights that must be considered. Legally, the public's bioavailability can be guaranteed to some extent, and it is certainly relevant in the possession of natural molecules and the vast land. However, it is evident that it has proved to be increasingly difficult to secure the uncut rights of the public in order to enjoy natural wealth that is in the defined private property. In many ways, public rights may have been prepared after unemployed businesses and investors began to buy land on a significant scale. Old national routes and uncivilized land have been closed, and road traffic has been prevented in areas that should rightly be enjoyed by all. The mission is to keep old paths open to common road users and to keep cars from public funds available for all. The farther the property is the inhabitants of the country, the more difficult it is in effect to enforce the right of the public to the land and its goods. There is good reason to consider this in reviewing the laws and regulations of these materials with a public right. As it will be in detail in II. in the report, the development of lawmakers in the late EU has been aimed at reducing restrictions on business through property and removing government authority to influence communication with them. Recently, this has proved to be contrary to the main premise that since the beginning of the state's sovereignty, there was a red thread in the discussion of these matters - the approach that due to the smallness of the nation and its vastness, there would be a greater need for stricter legislation in these areas than in many countries. This has, in effect, been turned around and opened up as other far more populous countries place more clearly on it. In view of the recent events we know and the great interest of foreign rich people to cover both land and resources in Iceland, the need to sharpen all vision, legislation and regulations affecting both the land and the resources of the region. Governments have already declared that they intend to reexamine the earth's resources. While no data are available on these compounds, the legal environment remains unchanged. In this context, less discussion of the value of a country has been done on its own and on the developments that have occurred at home and abroad. The pioneers who were always put up with - i.e. It would be necessary for a small and vast kingdom to keep up - to - date sales and to place narrow and clear rules there - to have been unrecognizable. Rather than being limited to a narrower degree, the laws are open, vague, and weak when these aspects come to pass. It may be asked whether this trend is really in harmony with national willingness and whether a large deal of land on the part of foreign rich, wealthy people, or even countries are at peace with the people of the country. At the very least, the dramatic changes that have been made in recent decades to the legislation and orderliness of this region need a much more thorough, open, and enlightened discussion than has so far been made clear where to go. As the report shows, the need for these topics to be discussed has in general been urgent and that the future course to follow has been drawn. There, the right of future generations must weigh on weight rather than on temporary interests. In the opinion of the matter, people should be able to combine to limit major purchases in the country, land and resources of the country until actual policy development, open discussion and overall review of the relevant law columns have been conducted. It's in II. Section 2, where the right of possession is being discussed. 72. g. The Constitution can be legally restricted by the rights of foreign parties to have two kinds of assets in Iceland, i.e. Real estate rights or part of a job company in this country. It's very detailed, and I encourage people to learn more about it. With law No. 136/2001 was made of the change in real estate law that a separation was made that a foreigner had to have had a legal home for five years in order to acquire real estate. So after the change, it was enough for a foreign person to have a legal home in this country in order to obtain the rights of property. According to comments to the bill that turned into law No. 136/2001 is the right of a foreigner who gains the right to property in this way bound to remain in a legal home. Therefore, if he moves abroad, he must apply for permission under the law. Changes have since been made in many other laws, including The earth. No. 81/2004, included significant changes from older law, especially in terms of a much lower limitation of landowners'provision rights. The law says that all basic government authority has been removed to hold hand in business through property that falls under the law. In general remarks to that bill, it is noted that some of the changes are rooted in the development of the EFTA (EU) monitoring agency making comments on some of the laws of the earth and that it violates the EEA Convention. For one thing, living conditions were in conflict with 31 stylus. The EEA Convention, unless it was established that the directive was required to achieve the objectives of the law. Iceland hasn't done it. About 30. The law of the law, on prenuptial rights, convinced the Agency that its implementation was uncertain and that it was contrary to the earlier regulations to the extent it caused the European government to decide on free capital flows in this respect. Some of these changes were supported by reference to earlier ESA comments. However, it is safe to say that the change was much longer than the EEA requirement. It would have been possible to maintain general limits on the provision rights if it had been ensured that the members of the EEA's rights and domestic members would be equal to them. Along with the Laws of the Earth, No. 80/2004, and hid them. In a sense, it is necessary to make a living on earth a life devoted to the preservation of life on earth. Only for Norwegian legislation, at the end. On the authority to gain real estate rights in Norway there is a law on permission to obtain the rights of property. Their aim is to control and monitor trade through property to protect agricultural production areas and other important stakeholders for society, including The interests of future generations, taking into account the environment, nature and curfews, as well as the dwelling. Under the Law, the principle is that government permission is required to acquire property in Norway with the exception of the laws, e.g. if the ground isn't above 10 ha and their land is not over 2.5 ha. In the 9th. The law is a special law on hosting allows to buy on agricultural land. It contains the viewpoints that should be fundamental to the decision of such granting. Among things to be considered is whether the agreement will be compatible with environmental prices, as it is said, in the community, whether the buyer's aims are compatible with the local interests, both the built-up and the resource use systems. According to Article 11. The law is permitted to set conditions for granting grants, in the light of the law's purpose. In Danish law, the principle is that individuals who are not housed in Denmark or who have lived there before in at least Five years will require the permission of the Ministry of Justice in order to gain real estate privileges in Denmark. The same applies to companies, companies, agencies, and other law characters who do not have domesticity in Denmark and the foreign government. The source is also confined to houses that are to be used for the possession of the owner rather than orloft dwellings and real estates that are essential for the right to pursue an independent function or to carry out a service. It should be noted that the Dans have agreed on an exception from the rules of free capital transport in terms of investments in a facility used only part of a year and that national legislation will be maintained in that area. There we went far beyond what we needed. However, restrictions must not include discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity. This authority can explain the narrower sources of Danish regulations to gain the rights of the legislators than the sources of the Icelandic Regulation, but it does hardly explain the difference between the rules of free capital transport. So this is one of the things we need to be examined. Under agricultural legislation, it is a principle that authority to gain rights over a farm depends on the owner taking up a regular home on the planet and on the obligation to live on it for ten years. From this, however, there are exceptions. Special regulations are available regarding the purchase of agrienvironment schemes and are subject to some exceptions. I do not have time to thoroughly review national legislation in these areas but it is clear that a comprehensive assessment of the terms established by the EEA Member States in their legislation on the trade and sale of land and other property to foreign citizens will be made regardless of whether they are prepared in other EU or outside the Community or the EEA border. It would even be there. It is important to examine specifically the specific means and to which extent to settle the requirements for possession of literature. There is also good reason to review their legislation outside the EEA, where strong discussions on these issues have been made and clear policy in parallel with legislation has been established in the foreground. Madam President. I hope this case works out. I think it's important, and, of course, we all know our conversations in the community and our concern for the purchases that are already, in my opinion, that has become way too great in many places, unfortunately, in our country. So I believe there is reason to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u102	Madam President. I'm celebrating this discussion. Although I do not necessarily agree with every suggestion. However, members of the council are saying that there are many things we need to discuss. We need to take this discussion, not only from the concept of ownership but also from the climate as well. As the report shows, there are huge resources on these earth, and the fact is that whether we like it or not, rich people are gathering resources around the world, and we Iceland have not been part of it. What I wanted, however, was to think about in this context and ask why. A traveling overseer, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, is whether you have wondered whether there is even any reason to limit the purchases only to foreign parties but rather simply to prevent the sale of land on your heads. I'm disintegrating about collecting land, whether it's Icelandic or foreign, I don't think the nationality in itself is a major matter in this context. That is why I would be interested in hearing a decision. That's what he's doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u103	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with her in the approach that we need to look at things from far more angles than just collection of wealth. The climate is connected with everything we're dealing with today and all the resources that are under here. We know that in the world people are trying to settle down because land is getting too small for large nations. We are familiar with international purchases. I agree with that. Of course, a senator should consider this also with Icelandic rich men. The report also speaks of national differences, so perhaps it should be due to the general collection of possessions. I agree with what. A senator in it, perhaps making a suggestion to the committee when she gets the case in her own hands. It is primarily my opinion that good agriculture will not be eliminated, further measures should be taken to keep them in use, and that resources, whole rivers, are not being purchased, where water sources are under or otherwise. Then it doesn't matter whether an Icelander or a foreigner does and shuts down the land. This knows a person from his own district of purchase, where he has bought too much and is reduced to the fact that he simply will not be able to move around because the country is just for the person who owns it or for the travel services he has established. I'll agree with that. A senator hoping that the committee will take this with him to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u104	Madam President. Thank you. The elder's answer is happy to know that she agrees with me on this matter. I agree with her expectations that the committee would take a special look at it. Hv. A senator mentioned farms, so as he did, I wanted a second answer, which I don't intend to have far, to ask why. A senator will see how she feels about the rules of regular living on farms, such as. in Denmark and elsewhere, it is only guaranteed, especially for farms, that it is an aquifers and effective agriculture. It would be interesting to go further into that discussion, but I'm not going to extend it at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u105	Madam President. I agree with that. As I was beginning to say in my previous answer, you can't decide if anyone stays a farmer or if anyone will take over but at least try to stop farmers from shrinking in our society because they are forced to sell themselves out of their farms. Of course, there's another arm, except for this, but still part of the case. We know that because of poor circumstances farmers are selling themselves out of farms, and that is one of the causes of these great purchases, they get a good price, see opportunities, and the younger people do not see just the same opportunity to get into the farm to use the land for breeding. But I think it's very important to look at, at least when people are buying farm property, as it is due to farms, as it happens. published in the report. I don't know the demand for an apartment in Denmark, which is a long rule, a ten-year rule, that I don't quite know, and I don't know if it's working, or whether the generation change is relatively simple. I feel that we need to look at this, and I stress that it's part of a view so that you can't just buy out land and whole areas and you don't have to stay there but once a year with your family and put a stick on or something. This can't help and that while only lights are turned off in the countryside or others don't have access to the resource use. This thought is likely also included in the discussion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u106	Madam President. I welcome this proposal for revision, and I think it is needed and in fact that the proposal's name might be extended. There is a proposal for a interpretation of the legal environment in terms of land remuneration to be obtained. I'd like it to be also about land use and organization and other things. Each of these texts in the report, a very good report that follows, makes it clear that we are talking much more than just buying land. On the other hand, I have to make comments with my goals, especially the a- and b-tee. The a-team clearly shows that the goal is to prevent the sale of foreign parties, which do not have a legal home and a permanent home. I don't agree with that. I can't see that foreign people can buy land here like others, any more than that Icelanders can buy land in other countries. In the discussion, foreign rich people are often spoken of as criminals and have some interesting plans in mind when buying a country. I don't think this is necessary at all, and that the Icelandic people can be just as dangerous to landowners as foreign people. So I can't accept it and hope that the trial will be fully discussed. I'd like to ask a carrier why that's the main objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u107	Madam President. Thank you. And I'm glad to hear that a member of the council is pleased with the idea that this council decrees. It is true that the report is very detailed. It is also going through the legislation and how it has changed, so it is part of the reasons why many other matters are discussed in the report. I've always looked at it so that shopping isn't just one country or one property or something like that. Buying is when someone buys large quantities. It is the understanding of the Council arrangement that large areas of territory do not accumulate in the hands of any individual or such, as we have seen. I take an example from the armed forces where giant land and possessions have been purchased, as in the Rivers, where nearly one party has been done. In that case, nearly all the Rivers, or much of it, belong to the Lowlands and to Ólabies. That's how I look at the sale, just to be clear, and put it here with me because this case goes to the pro committee and that's where I expect the members of the committee to explain it. I hope I could have answered that. I'm not saying that a foreign person can't buy land, I don't have anything to do with it, but what I still want to stress is that a foreign party can't buy a farm and keep it under a cottage. That's one of the things I'd like to be seen. I think it's normal that the land we now define as agricultural ground will remain, and that is, in fact, narrowing the conditions for farms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u108	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. Regarding this understanding of purchases, the very aim of b-partees is referred to as the general definition of total property in a country which should be allowed for the same person. Then I thought about the saying, because one of the lawyers can be included in his own hand by 12% of the maximum share of total dishes. It'd be a hell of a mess if we were going to hit those 12% here in Iceland. This needs to be discussed very carefully. However, I would like to explain here the idea that I like best and that I will receive the reaction of a messenger to it. To prevent anything from happening on our land, on our soils, which is undesirable, whether foreign or domestic, it would be a matter of planning in the hands of rural and rural communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u109	Madam President. As I came into it when I reviewed the case earlier, of course, our laws have been impaired in terms of authority. Of course, the design of each member of the community to see his closest community - the premium of rural society on earth has been removed. She's been disabled. I think it was pathetic. Not all of this may have happened in the community if it was still in force. But I don't think it's a good thing, first of all, that each member of the community has the advantage of making this decision. I think it's better that we have some holistic legislation, I think it's also better for rural society because, of course, it's part of the country defined in an organization, a shared organization, and all of that. It's about what it's like. As we know, they are industrialized. There are industrial areas, agricultural use and all that. But then this can happen. Despite the legislation, this has happened, and that is what we need to look at. Is there anything we can do or change to prevent it? But I don't think it's really supposed to be on the side of each other, because it can produce all kinds of things -- I don't mean to tell competition, but it can create some discrepancies in how rural society decides to handle these matters. I hope the pro board takes charge of these things and looks at all these things. These are questions that have been raised and no doubt come up with the Committee at the time, or I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u110	Madam President. I wanted to say something about this good case that we left green has been going on for quite a while, but I think the need for it is as strong as it was a few years ago when it was first delivered to the 140th legislature Council. As mentioned earlier, most countries set aside laws and regulations that in various ways limit communication to property, especially agriculture. These rules include to ensure that, in some way, the government has a government control over land trade and a view of possession of it. In increasing numbers, we see rich people buying up farmed ground, and they do not plan to continue using it for agricultural production or for use. As the legal environment exists today, all in the EEA can do business with farms. Don't go along with them. The 2013 Ministry has been called to mind. It included limitations on the property of foreign people on earth, but it was reduced for fear of ESA, the EFTA Center for Monitoring. Yet, countries like Danes have been under strict conditions for the purchase of farms in their land. That, in fact, is the case. Necessary living on that planet was required to have purchased farms. This prevents the earth from moving on to a few very rich people, and to date the ESA has not been involved in this law in Denmark. We left greens have repeated proposals for a review of this legislation on land and land sale and we have also suggested that governments object to policy-making, protection and land registration to support decision-making of its use and use. I suggested that proposal about two years ago. That motion is yet for itself, that I think. I think it's important to cooperate with the suggestions of a staff on possession of farms, which are at work. I think it's important that landowners have lived and had a legal home and it's urgent that farms be kept out of business and that most of the land's inhabitants are living so that the countryside would continue to be inhabited as we would like to see with a living society. In one way or another, some 18,000 people in a rural area rely on the agriculture today. It is the agriculture that is an impenetrable part of the tenet in our country so far, and hopefully it will remain for years to come. In many places it is emphasised on keeping land and resources in public. Many people are aware of the importance of holding land in the hands of their own citizens. Increased awareness of the interaction between land ownership and resource rights It is that countries that have significantly lost land possession beyond the cliffs, now some of the bans of foreign sales. Other countries stress that there are clear limits and restrictions in these areas and, in some cases, try to unwind an already existing land sale. These include countries in South America, Africa, and Asia, where international circles have sought resources in these countries over the years. Indeed, people are concerned about the dwindling resources in the world, especially because resources, such as the U.S.A. Water, grows ever more precious over the years. When we discuss the future view for land and nation in these matters, land and resources are very important, just as they are anywhere or anywhere else. International level has also further established the value of land ownership and the national resources of such a country. In this regard, it may be noted that in many countries around us, good agricultural and agricultural countries have become scarce. As I referred to earlier in my talk, these special laws are in Denmark. Their principle is that those who are not in their homes or who have lived there for at least a while. Five years will require the permission of the Ministry of Justice in order to gain real estate privileges in Denmark. The same applies to enterprises, companies, and agencies as to other uninhabitable agencies in Denmark, as to foreign governments. There, the Minister of Justice can establish rules for an exception from the principle in the case of a whole - souled estate or property, which is essential for the righter's ability to pursue independent employment or services in the country. Ögmundur's Jónasson, who served as Minister of the Interior Church in the past, was a fighter for trying to stop the sale of foreign lands. He tried as a minister to set a regulations in which it was tried to prevent foreign people from buying land if they had no legal homes or if they were Icelandic citizens. However, this Regulation was taken out of the way, fearing that it would not pass the ESA rules. In this discussion, I feel that it is important that this matter be taken seriously. We need to examine the legal environment and avoid burning ourselves on what many other nations have burned up, i.e. to no longer have authority over their own country and how it is used, whether it is new in agriculture or tourism, or for other uses. Therefore, the government here needs to work fast and hard on these matters and to consider what can be done and react as early as the world is, of course, always getting smaller and smaller as it comes from the high resources running around and those who have money to look into countries where there are opportunities to get in and buy up countries and control land areas, whether there are resources or not. The country that it is, of course, a resource, so I think it's important that this case gets a good publicity on a professional committee, which I'm actually chairman of. I promise to do my best to do the work well along with my associates on a job committee. I believe it is urgent to take this matter into consideration for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u111	A respectable president. Here, we will discuss a very important proposal for interpretation of the legal environment in terms of domestic sale. I want to start by thanking the movers now and before and by stating that I fully support this proposal that this proposal is being given a discussion here and for further development in the committee. I believe that one of the important missions of the Generals this losserin is taking the prince's decision to ensure the possession of the people of the country on the land's resources for the future. On the other hand, when that decision is made, it may take some time to coordinate the laws, rules, and practices involved. The suggestion that we discuss points to an important step in this regard. Above all, we need to make this fundamental princely decision. Hv. A traveling overseer, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, has well considered reasons for the proposal. Earlier in the winter, there was a special debate about the possession of farms and possible limitations on this, in accordance with local regulations. The discussion presented a number of interesting points on this proposal. I think it is very important to expand the discussion and look at land resources based on more views than the use of land for agriculture and food production, although this is certainly the main concern of national planning. Lately, there has been a lot of talk in the community about land and land ownership, and it is clear that many people are concerned that Icelanders are reluctant to lose possession of resources on land. Most important, I have heard such concern from the Icelanders who work for international institutions and who are familiar with the world around me. There are constantly reports of Member States, as civil inhabitants of Iceland, who may even purchase entire countryside, or whose countries have no real ties to the country or to land use goals. Last September, the minister of the marine eco-efficiency and agricultural sector felt that a group of workers had a view of a review of land ownership. It provided eight suggestions on how to maintain agricultural land and live in the rural areas by changing land shapes and shapes. As a result, the government has started further work with the suggestions offered by the Ministry of Presidency, some of which turn to more than one department. I believe that the council proposal we're discussing might expand and add to the work that is already being done there. In this field, rapid work is important, and it is important to get the opinion of the council by considering the Parliament's resolution of the legislation on the sale of land. I think the whole country is a resource, the land itself, the soil and the vegetation that thrives there. Some countries are used for food production, others for outdoor purposes, and can follow country's other benefits that are still increasing its value, e.g. Fishing and water rights. The treatment and use of the entire country are relevant to the whole country, both now and in the future. It therefore represents a high level of public interest in the provision and treatment of the country. Therefore, such as on any other property, it cannot and should not apply the same rules for buying and selling a country. The population is now about 40% of the country, but land that is neither part of national land nor urban areas is divided into land. So the part of the land divided into the earth is about 50 to 60% of Iceland. They are now 6,000,17,000, depending on how they are viewed, and in recent years they have seen an increase in the interest of people who are not in Iceland. This shifts the possession of resources from country to country, but questions arise, as they were once involved, collections of property in few hands, unknown and vaguely the answers of the earth. When the earth is destroyed, valuables, such as housing and culture, roads, the distribution system of electricity, and communication are weakened, as are the communities in the rural areas and their rural communities. The possession of the rights and responsibility of the land must be in the hands of the people of the land. The management board can use a variety of instruments to influence the implementation of the country, and among the suggestions in the fall report, it is that validate farm conditions, land use policies, land size restrictions and/or the number of real estates owned by the same Member States, pre-convention of public bodies, such as state or rural society, and that objective measures for such decision making, price control authority and clear ground management rules will be implemented. The way I believe that it should be handled directly by law or by law is the condition that a person who gains possession or rights to agrienvironmental use should have a legal home in this country or who has previously had a legal home for a given time, e.g. Five years. This can be applied to Norway and Denmark, as it has been carried out. I believe such restrictions are not to be bound to land in agricultural uses, but to cover the whole country. Negotiation and oversight of the land must be carried out on clear responsibilities and responsibilities. There have been many suggestions from the above - mentioned reports that have been discussed before, but they are quite confusing for us. The reason I think we need a base. On the one hand, this work needs to be prepared in rural planning programmes, and on the other hand, national registration needs to be improved. To be successful, we need to maintain the interaction between laws, planning plans, and goals and basic information about the land. Like what? paritaprevir Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir introduced earlier during the discussion, I believe planning is a key tool for this purpose. The government and the general public, however, influence land use through the strategy of rural society. It could set goals for agriculture and sustainable land use. If the rural groups were to better use strategy to set national and national objectives, they would be based on objective guidelines proposed to be performed. Agrienvironments could define agrienvironmental land to be maintained and also land where whole populations are considered desirable. These include agrienvironment schemes, such as social support, security grounds, national monitoring, memory monitoring, and nature protection. In fact, national planning policies predict that land use in rural areas will be produced to guide the development of rural planning. Thus, there was a solid agreement between rural society. That's exactly what I've requested about the position of that job from the Environment and Resource Minister. Improving the registration of land ownership is also a prerequisite for the implementation of national management instruments. This requires building a central possession file. One of the tools the government could use is taxation to influence the use of real estate, such as land and houses on it. In this way, a property tax could be used as an incentive for the use of possessions in rural areas by adding more taxes to nonnew holdings. For this to be possible, land registration is required. A more advanced landreal file exists. Only the rules on registration and ordering are required. Iceland's Constitution would be the basis for the practical and sustainable use of earth's resources, with the interests of future generations being guided. We need to know the land, we need to record it, and we need to plan it. Thus we could develop normal limitations and create incentives for habitats, innovations, and innovations in rural areas. We need to respond now, and I support the existing Congress resolution and that it will be discussed, although I also believe that it would be wise and possible to make changes in a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u112	V.E.G. President. I thank the couriers and the chairman of this fine synopsis proposal made by senators of the left green. It is once more important that has become urgent, has been a subject of much discussion, and is of immense importance to us as a nation. We're talking about a political arrangement for reimbursement of the legal environment in terms of land sales. Four clear targets of the review include: in setting clear rules that aim to prevent the sale of foreign people who don't have a home and live on land. This is an excellent goal, but I would like to approach this matter, as other members of Congress have come to, that perhaps it was not a matter of national importance but of purpose, how to use it, how to enter it. True, many parts of the country have also been purchased by Icelandic people. Another objective is to consider general criteria, such as land size, land use, and the number of soils permitted at the same time. It supports the rest I talked about earlier. The third objective is to consider the environmental issues and terms of public rights in all laws and to take into account the specific circumstances. Then we're talking about what's in the ground, farms, deserts, and everything else around them. Finally, the aim is to ensure compliance between law and regulations. This matter is so full and detailed as the members of Congress on the left green have hope and direction. The story is taken exactly, and in fact, it is very interesting to read the case here and the report that follows it. Today, more and more people come to realize that we need to put these issues to the fore. Not all who have bought farms and land and bought much of it for some other motive, from which there is a long road. Many have entered communities and have had good relations, stressing the continuation of land, wanting to contribute to it, and even enabling people to accept and build houses and other things. It's fine and it's good. Still, we look to the country as a place where we may not be able to find it. It's a threat, and I don't think it's a good position. We need a policy and a plan and we need a general plan for land use, a plan for what we're going to use on our country. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir came in is a whole country of resources. Not only are traditional farms a resource but they're all land. We use it differently. In some places we'd like to have lived for safety reasons, in some places, we'd like to build up the country's tourism and the use of it, etc. We need to plan this. I think it's getting very urgent. This document has also stated that we follow the Icelandic rule, and the Icelandic rule is that property on land equals property on earth resources. The right of property here is very decisive, and it produces an extensive resource rights. There, people will no doubt differ as to how we want to approach them. All of this needs to be discussed, and we need to find out. The right of property on surface waters and groundwater is enormously valuable to us, and for the future, I can agree that it is one of the greatest interests of future generations here. How vital that we use our land and make good use of it, with reason and practicality! That is why I would like to call attention to some of the issues that have been presented to me and to others. I have presented a case that deals with the development of government policy with special regard to farms. I know that now there's work at the Ministry of Economics and some movement has made it, but it's just not going fast enough and definitely. People have been willing to accept farms, start farming, and not reach the ground because it has not been opened. But there's been some movement, and I want to keep it up. In my suggestion, a minister of finance is assigned to deal specifically with the general policy of government property and rights, and I hope he is being overlooked. It will look to camps, nature protection, tourism, and the ability to start farming. I'm taking a word in the motion of our candidates, by permission of a president: The development of recent years has been that more and more land has gone out of the world, and it has weakened very largely the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local policy, and to ensure food production and equality. During the past decade, there have been significant changes in rural land use, but what has become the most widespread change is the population that is largely dependent on the prowess of people. The owner of the Kingdom on earth is part of the case, but the one here has considered that the State can set a good example and do this. We could have gone so much sooner and much faster on that matter than has been done. Now we have a 122 labour agreement with the State handler, but I have hopes that that that's going to be a good thing. I hope that a professional worker's committee will soon be informed about what it's like because this case is until coverage. As I mentioned earlier, the use of land is not only in traditional farming but also in so many other things. Then there's a proposal for a hearing about an eco-friendly purchase of groceries that will support all of us who have been talking about the foodland of Iceland. We are here to produce much more food, and all of our goals fall when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, strengthening European agriculture, increasing employment opportunities, and improving the environment, the well - being of animals, and reducing the transport and cost of transport. It all falls apart. There is another suggestion regarding land healing and the culture of the field. The land is all precious, and we face the fact that many of us are uninhabited. There are valuables and resources hidden in things we cannot let down. By maintaining the property and its precious possession, we can at the same time cultivate the land. I hope it's all coming to the council. Why am I talking about this now? Because it is all about how we will use our land and look to the future in these areas. I'm glad that this case has come in for coverage and I hope there's good progress and good coverage. Actually, the head of the pro board, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, the comment that she was going to follow through with this, and I trusted her to get back to this. Governments can use various means to influence the provision of the land. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Dr. Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir had eight suggestions on how to handle the situation and how to handle these issues, but I think we need to settle this. We need to talk more about it, though I think most people, at least The people who are here for this discussion are absolutely aware that we are going to use the land, that we are going to take care of it, and that we will keep our country in the midst of it. Therefore, we need to control these matters, and we must not forget that there is great value in knowledge of the land, the people who have been cultivating the land, who are all over the country. They know the land, and they know how to use it. I really hope this case has a good start here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u113	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a synopsis proposal to review the national legal environment. I'd like to start by thanking the originals and their left-hand greens for making this suggestion. She's been on the program a few times, and I think it's a good idea now to push. In a changed world and an open world, it is necessary to review these issues, to shape our course. We need to shape our national policies. We need to shape our course of action. The aims of the proposal, such as making clear rules and laws, are aimed at preventing the sale of foreign people who do not have a legal home here and who live in a regular setting. If we look beyond the landstones, the Dians have managed to shape a clear framework for the sale of farms. The buyer must have been living in Denmark for five consecutive years, or combined in more periods. Then he can buy a full - time house without special permission from the Danish Ministry of Justice. It is reported that anyone buying a farm in Denmark should have a permanent home on that earth. This prevents the transfer of land property to few hands. Dana has been able to stick to this despite being in the EU and subject to its full regulations. During Iceland's involvement with the EEA deal, there were voices that we would warn about the deal. Interestingly, though, we seem to have gone further if something is and appear to be half asleep in these substances. In a paper with the Parliamentary arrangement, the procedure is considered in the legal setting in Norway and Denmark, and there is good reason for making a much more thorough examination and comparison. We're setting strict ground rules for holding foreign property on our farms and fish industry here, and we think it's important. Why is this impossible? Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, spoke earlier about perhaps being of no importance to the nationality. That's right. I remember that after a collapse, there was one company here that bought up a lot of farms. It divides dozens of lands purchased by the company, which ended up in bankruptcy. They were even fully operational farms. This may have been more of an investment than an investment in the earth. We also need to shape our policies in this regard, and it does not matter which passport a person has that buys a large amount of land. The panel has proposed a synonym, in which the General concluded that the design of a general policy of government property and rights will be specifically discussed in farms that will be considered for housing, protection, tourism, and the ability to start farming. But the work has started, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir. The work is rather slow, whatever the explanation is, but hopefully it will continue and return. Even a number of suggestions could be taken here that have come to the fore and take them into that work. The object of the proposal I mentioned, for the general policy of government property and rights, is to guide the development of public property policy and to ensure that policy guarantees the ability of people to start farming. It matters, for example. when talking about the use of land. Natural protection and tourism development are also needed. Similarly, any type of land belonging to the State and therefore, which areas are better off owned by a private member. As I told them, all these suggestions speak together, i.e. that we need to shape our policies, whether we map the country from the use, region, or sector. A respectable president. The discussion of land ownership is not new. It's really time we took over. Our resources lie in land, hunting rights, water rights, natural bulbs. It's all underneath. It has been hard to believe that salmon companies belong to foreign sources and that we are actually selling resources from abroad. But what is happening about fishing rights and land on the fishing grounds of the country? Here, foreign wealth is investing in water rights by purchaseing land on land in many lands and fishing rights. One of England's richest men has many earths in part or in all respects, including In the armed. Swedish people also own land by hunting rights. Is this the environment we want to see, or do we need to take a closer look at these matters? A respectable president. In ancient times, land was the dream of every Iceland. Respect for princes and secular authority was based on much of the land, and churches gathered the earth in large numbers. The earth is a part of independence and a long future. It's time for us at the council, to speak and carry out in earnest, to make sure that we have a strong accounting on land and land, and plan the use of the land. So I take my heart into this important matter, and I hope that there will be a better landing on a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u114	Madam President. The trade of foreign rich people on earth is a concern and must be restricted immediately by legalization. Marriage is not new in this country. However, it is in recent years that rich people have conquered large areas of territory. Sadly, governments have stood afar off and watched without action. The irony of fate is that at the same time as we celebrate a 100 - year - old sovereignty, we are following our country into the hands of foreigners who do not want to build it. There are many countries that limit foreign trades in terms of their size and number of soils. It is reasonable and reasonable to place restrictions on this country in the same way as there are limitations in farming, nature and environment, and culturally. According to the current holding rights and rights of real estate, no. 19/1966, those who intend to purchase real estate rights in this country, including fishing rights, to be Icelandic citizens, or to have a legal home in Iceland. If it is a society, everyone must be Icelandic citizens or have a legal home in Iceland continuously for five years. The law also says that a minister will give an exception to these conditions. Member States in the EEA, however, have the same rights as Icelandic citizens. So it's a minister who allows foreign sources outside the EEA to buy land. This is a clear example of how the Council has delivered his power. It is reasonable that the legislatator, the General, should decide for himself which leaves the law's conditions. The EEA Treaty provides an open and legal way for foreign people to land markets and is amazed that my people know that governments have not established any restrictions on these matters, as the laws of our neighboring nations say. It would be nearly best to look to Norwegian for ground standards, but the law does not answer to 40 C.E. The EEA Convention and it should have been passed in a long time ago. The earth's nest is in harmony with our ideas about land's flourishing habitats. It may be noted, then, that in the Middle East, a farmer recently said that it was in vain of politicians not to control the major trade of foreigners. In May 2014, a careful report by the Committee on Internal Affairs was published on proposals for improvement in these materials and needed changes in law. Then the General could have handled the matter with a more well - prepared legal arrangement, but that was not the case. Mr. President. This conjugal proposal here is well worked in my opinion, and it is accompanied by a detailed report that seems to be a significant amount of work to be done. There's some information on the laws of neighboring countries, such as Denmark and Norway, it's well worked, as I say, and it's commendable. Its purpose is to hide the government to prepare a reexamination of laws and regulations for the sale of farms and other crops, as well as the wilderness. The aim must be to set clear rules that aim to prevent the sale of foreign workers on uninhabitable farms and regular living places. There are four senators left green, standing at this council resolution, and as we know it, the government is in charge of the same party. So I would have thought it would have been relatively easy for the left green to respond quickly to this important case of legalization. The Prime Minister could have cut the path right away and dealt with it. Now the left green have had the foreman of the government for 15 months, and nothing has been done in preventing the sale of foreign people on earth. At the same time, large lands have fallen into the hands of foreign people who do not want to build the land. It's over, Mr. President, to do an important preparatory work that helps all the legislation in this regard. It's the 2014 report, as I mentioned earlier. The government can take immediate action in this important matter. The will is all that is needed in these matters, and it is the duty of politicians to protect the country. Our nation's existence is due to our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u115	Mr. President. As we have seen in the case of several members of the council today, I am one of the couriers of this synonym of the legislation on the sale of land. The discussion of the importance of the matter has made a huge difference, and I'm not going to detract it. Also, I do not want to minimize the importance of working properly and that when preparing legislation, I will carefully review the points mentioned, since the matter is quite complicated. Living as a requirement for possession of some property is not quite a simple matter. If we view farms as a form of employment, we will have a different demand for those who do this sort of business than perhaps many others. Therefore, it is very important to examine this matter carefully. But it is of great value for the whole nation, that the earth be inhabited, and the land be used according to their kinds. paritaprevir In ancient times, the Egilsdóttir of Þórunn, or other forms of farming, became known as the daughter of Eliil. It's very important. However, what is dangerous, that is known to me, or at least Very dangerous is the fact that the whole circle of soil, even the intersecting earth in the same quarter, is simply taken out of the population and is actually taken out and access to them and the quality that they bring to a considerable extent to the general public. That's not acceptable. Then we begin to talk about the tribulation of public rights in terms of association and in actuality. While nature protection laws are not such that the public rights are restricted to land, there is a limit to society and public rights in cultivated land. When a person or group has already purchased a large portion of the ground with a lot of cultivated land, but farming has not been practiced, the whole area and whole regions have been blocks for public relations. It's not working. I want at least In part, it agrees as a dog. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, in answer to this issue earlier today, said that what I want to call such a sixfold on the ground is not to be used for living but, in fact, to take out our own land uses by purchase, it does not matter to itself what people are buying, it is just as bad for us who live in this country as they would like to enjoy the land, that the ground is in such an isolated condition. Therefore, it is important that this should be examined carefully, also in view of the strength of the international tourism service, that it is even more important to have a clear set of laws on how to handle land, how to limit contact with land, and in what way they can possess and reside on land. All of these are points that will be examined in connection with the synonym. Also important are the natural resources that may be on earth, in relation to our common rights as a nation of natural resources. All of this needs to be carefully examined. I understand the case is going on. General and Education Committee. Actually, it's such a matter that they might as well have gone to the environment and transportation committee, and they might as well have walked to a business committee. Because it has many key factors in how we live in the land and how we experience the use and enjoyment of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u116	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a synonym to reconsider the rules of Regulation on the return of consumers, letter of gift and possession. The case is No. 44, on the roof. 44. Transporters and those who speak here are whiskers. The members of Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliil, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savar. The suggestions are: The Council concludes to hide travel, industrial and innovation ministers to appoint a team that implements a review of the rules of consumer return, gift letters, and internalisation, and to offer proposals to increase the use of the rules. The task force will appoint members according to the appointing of the National Social Association, Trade and Service Association, the National Association of Iceland and Iceland's Business Committee. The chairman shall be appointed by a minister without a form. The Outfit team will submit proposals for the Ministers on March 1, 2019, to serve as a member of the staff. In view of the length of time for this council, I immediately raised a respected president of the United States, which says in the last sentence of the proposal that the task force should submit proposals to Ministers for March 1, 2018. I guess that's what's gonna happen. The General and Education Committee to which I refer to this matter, to make a change to this date so that the staff will be given plenty of time to do this work. Even though I mention it here, and I suggest it. The committee, of course, leads to a review of this aspect. A review of the case shows that a joint proposal was previously submitted to 144, 145, and 148th legislatures, and is now reassigned. They suggest that travel, industrial, and innovation ministers be committed to appoint a team taking into account the rules for the submission of consumers'rights, shipment letters and localisation. Most important, the main stakeholders I listed here in the proposal will be here. There's been a lot of work that has been done in the past business ventures. However, while all of us have an understanding of what is meant when we refer to consumers, it is very important to bear in mind the legal definition. I'm here to refer to a report at the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation minister returned the Council to the 146th legislation of consumers, which says, on permission of the president's permission: It can be said that in recent decades the value of consumer rights and consumer interests has increased in Western legislation. More and more, the law considers how it will affect consumer interests, as well as other laws and regulations, in particular to protect consumer interests. However, laws involving consumers and consumer protection in Icelandic legislation are somewhat fragile and widely distributed. The definitions of law are not completely uniform... In fact, the definitions of this report are discussed in more detail. In chapter I of dealing with consumers, No. 48/2003, concerning the values of the law, says that the consumer refers to an individual who buys a job item and by consumer purchases, the sale of items to consumers when the seller or agent has his job for sale. Two. The law on consumer agreements, from 9 March 2016, says of the definition of consumer concept that consumers are an even consumer who is a buyer in business, which this law takes for a purpose that is unacceptable to his work. The Treaty on consumer agreements is applicable to agreements for goods and services to consumers when salesmen sell products or provide services. Here, of course, we can discern the same thought as when we refer to a consumer. Then we will often discuss consumer awareness in various contexts of consumers and the need to increase consumer awareness. Then we suggest that the consumer sense of the public may be generally lacking, although it is growing in some areas. I'm here, a respectable president, to interview Gísli Tryggvason, who was giving up the office of a consumer spokesman when that article is published, December 8, 2013, in ml.is. There he is asked what assignments are most necessary in his opinion. He says, with permission from the President: ▪ It is important to increase the sense of consumers in general, to inform consumers more about their rights and resources, and to encourage them to maintain their interests and maintain their rights. If a large number of consumers take steps to set standards and monitor the sellers, they will be careful not only for themselves but also for the rights of others at the same time. That's what Gísli says in this interview. Many more examples of such discussions and references to consumer protection can be found, and it is often accompanied by growth. I'm going to go back to the report at the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation minister submitted the 2016 Parliament. It says, by permission of the president: While Icelandic consumers may be behind the informed consumers of consumer awareness, there is evidence that our awareness as enlightened consumers is increasing. Further, this report states: Although it is important to promote consumer rights in this country with necessary legal adjustments, it is equally important to increase the sense of consumer consumers. Therefore, we may discuss this and find it in many reports and discussions without any particular reference to where we are. Nevertheless, it is clear how important it is, in which consumers, consumer protection, and consumer rights abound in legislation, that we are concerned about this. This case I recommend here is for that, we can say. The common sense of consumerism, though growing in some areas, is generally lacking. The common rule at consumer purchases is that a consumer does not have a legal right to return a defective product for which he has bought it. Exceptions from this rule are found in the Treats of consumer agreements, No. 16/2016, but according to 17. Their law - this article is about delay to cancel a contract - will allow time to decline a contract over 14 days after the contract was concluded for the purchase of goods or services. On the other hand, consumers and merchants are free to negotiate a certain right. This is done in many cases by shopping on return rights that consumers take with their purchases. It is shocking, however, that shops make different rules, so consumers often find it difficult to find out which rules apply to individual purchases. This applies in particular to e.g. At the Christmas store, when much is shopped and these rules vary, more and more are involved in returning goods and even getting the same things in a Christmas package. It is very different how long shops give consumers the opportunity to exchange supplies they have received, and in some cases it is only a few days. Since consumers and consumer organizations and others often struggle with a number of complaints over this brief delay, it is clear that this will not be easy for many consumers, including the U.S. citizens of the country that may not be able to make it in time to trade in the capital area to divide gifts and thus live with several copies of the same object. There are also different rules about the duration of the gift letter and of the import code. The general rule of the expiration rights applies, i.e. The letter of gift or of deposit does not belong to the donor for four years from publication. Many shops and services, however, provide shorter periods of time and are often used for three to six months. Keep in mind that when a consumer buys a gift letter, he is putting money into the business of the business he shops and costs everything unnatural and, in fact, unfairly, that such a short time is given to take out goods for an investment. It is likely that consumers will be made annually of quite a large amount of money because of this. In part, the conflicting rules established by trade were the reason that by the year 2000 a minister of commerce was now the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, general procedures on the return rights of consumers, donor bonds and introductory sources. The rules of action include the following: the website of the Department of Professional Roads and Neoplasms referred to as being entitled to this cross-registered protocol. to the Neytend Office's web. The rules are optional, so the sellers can decide for themselves whether to offer any rights to consumers according to protocols or to set their own rules. The point of the procedure is that consumers have at least 14 days due. A product marked with a donor logo makes boxing unnecessary on dialysis. In-use echoes should be made at the original price of product. For up to four years from the day of publication, the stock and the owner's card should be valid, and the return card should not be used as a sale unless otherwise agreed. It is now 17 years since these rules were set, and it is reasonable to examine whether these rules should be updated in the way of changing commercial practices. And because I have now referred here, a respectable president, to a report of the highest order. Travel, industrial, and innovation ministers are consistent with this and that report. In this regard, consumers are endeavoring to ensure the proper standing of consumers, which leads to increased awareness of their rights. Unfortunately, the traders have little to agree with the rules, but there are different rules that sellers themselves, which, of course, create uncertainty and insecurity for consumers. It may have many positive effects on the land's market that the procedure is in general practice. Thus, the staff referred to in a suggestion must look for ways to increase the number of sellers that support the procedure and increase the knowledge of consumers. The procedure in itself is quite clear, but there is a lack of general use of the procedure in order to maintain a consistent relationship with consumers. It may be appropriate to implement a special presentation campaign for the work programme following the work group reviewing the rules and thus try to promote the support of more shops. The trade in this country is under attack for online shops and more and more people choose to shop online from abroad, where prices are often more favorable and consumers have 14 days'right to avoid shopping if shoppers in the European Economic Area. However, it has to be remembered that consumer rights when dealing with parties in another country are often inferior to merchants who shop in this country, especially when shopping for Internet stores in countries outside the European Economic Area. It can also be difficult to solve problems with sealers in another country that may arise. I'm going to go back to the top report again. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, but there have been a number of activities in consumers, and the report refers to a group that began in the mid-1914, a staff on consumer policies, and was appointed representatives of all members of the Council at the Council. The result of that work was a pactary proposal, where the first shipman was then on the move. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir. The proposal I recommend here is partly from that product, the synonym. Right at the end of the trial, I want to make clear that with a clearer implementation of the rules of due course, letter of gift, and possession the situation of a domestic trade with a foreign network store where consumers will become more aware of their rights and will be able to follow in accordance with the rules of truth. A clear procedure on the due rights of consumers, letter of gift and deposit is thus for the long term benefit of consumers and traders. I have to finish my story, a respectable president, and point the case to what. The General and Education Committee, with the hope of success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u117	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson for enforcing this important matter, which deals with reviewing rules of submission to consumers, letter of gift and possession. Like what? This proposal has already appeared before the council. It involves hiding a travel, industrial, and innovation secretary ordering a team of workers taking into account the rules of submission of consumers'rights, shipment letters, and introductions and finding ways to improve the use of these rules. On the basis of this, it is also stated who should be in this group, but according to this, it should be by the appointing of the consumer Society, the trade and service organization, the National Association of Iceland and Iceland's Business and Business Council, and the appointment of presidents. I think there's a really good thing for us to do these things, because they often say that me and the Icelanders don't have a strong sense of consumers. There's something we can strengthen. Yet, it has no doubt improved and increased in some areas, but not all of it. I'll have to grab a little bit of the report, with permission of the highest. President: Although growing in some areas, public awareness is generally lacking. The common rule at consumer purchases is that a consumer does not have a legal right to return a defective product for which he has bought it. Exceptions from this rule are found in the Treats of consumer agreements, No. 16/2016, but at 17th par. Their deadline will be to cancel a contract throughout the 14 days after the purchase of goods or services is obtained. This is the general rule, but there are guidelines, procedures, on these matters. The main points of the principle are, by permission of the President: The consumers have at least A 14-day return bar, products marked with a donor logo make box check unnecessary, credit notes should be based on the original price of product, gift letter and possession requirements for up to four years from version Day, and the return warrant should not be used for sale unless otherwise agreed. It should be kept in mind that these procedures are reserved for reference or guidance, as they say, and therefore are not obliged to do so. This is likely to involve the problem with all these issues, that sales are not consistent. Therefore, consumers find it difficult to monitor and recognize their positions and rights. That's why I think it's very important to go into these cases to settle the rights of buyers. It varies according to shops and sales agents whether the time of ownership is determined by the market. This is not just shopping. I know something like that. some people are trying to get rid of a gift letter for flying during the last days of their Common Era because there is a firm hold on it, and no doubt they could pick up other items. For the duration of your deposit or gift letters, please read the following, by permission of the president: ▪ The time of the gift letter and the owner's possession, and the person to whom he or she may hand out his business, is up to four years from publication date unless otherwise agreed. It is totally open and the duration of an introduction may be shortened for up to one year according to the national reference protocol. The duration of less than four years should be specifically stated in the version of the inhaler as well as on the notes itself. So it can only be. Also says: ▪ A new owner of a company still has a gift certificate and an introduction to the sellers of his business. However, if you are a company, you cannot be asked to do so. So there are some things that can fall between a ship and a dock. And he also says: ▪ If the seller is to fail during the validation period of a gift letter or introductory code, it can be required for the swelling. That requirement, however, is rarely of great value. If a new store replaces the bankrupt one, there is no requirement for it where there is another enterprise. So people can clean up their table. The terms of this letter and the import code apply otherwise according to the criteria agreed. So it remains that the duration of the ownership is determined by the store itself. It's not good and it's not good for consumers. It is now a period of 17 years of experience on these rules, and it is only natural to update them to the rhythm of our new commercial and new environment. It must be good for consumers if we can enhance their awareness and understanding that most shops and salesmen will be in harmony with the same rules and frames when it comes to this. But the rules need to be clear, and they need to be accessible, because by conformance, we are more fully ensuring the rights of consumers. Then it must lead to increased awareness of the rights, as we have seen. This will have a very positive effect on the trade in the country and will strengthen it, for as we all know it, the population is shopping more online, shopping outside our shopping territory in this country, and even outside the European region. There are other rules, and it is difficult to defend its rights when it comes to them. If we can get this out, I think we'll strengthen the Icelandic store, I'll put up with it, because it must be good for all the employers in this country and consumers that they know what they're going through for a shorter time. Also, shopping abroad is often more beneficial. There is something better to be found, but it remains that you have a product in your hands that you have no chance of returning or getting rid of because there is nothing that keeps your mind on it, and there are no duties of the seller in that case. There is another one, e.g. around the Christmas store, like a dog. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson came in earlier. Then there are the conditions the store puts on deadlines and other very different conditions. People are discriminated against. People from abroad do not have the same opportunity to return Christmas gifts that do not work well or to trade, and even if you do not live in the country, you can be in the situation that you will not soon be able to return and exchange. I think it's just the best thing to do if we get around this and make something clearer and more consistent. I think I'm pretty clear about that. I'm gonna let myself under the pressure of the report at the moment, with the permission of a president: With a clearer presentation of due rights, letters, and deposit requirements, the movers consider this proposal to strengthen the trade position in this country against a foreign Internet store where consumers will be better aware of their rights, they can walk in accordance with the rules and thereby increase their sense of security at the purchases that lead to increased trades. A clear procedure on the due rights of consumers, letter of gift and deposit is thus used by consumers and sellers for the long term benefit. I'm glad this proposal has come back. But it calls for cooperation and conversation. The representatives listed here need to come together and determine how these matters will be resolved, make them clearer, and take up the rules of action that are valid for 17 years, and have gained considerable experience and are not for our benefit. The benefits of consumers must also help the store, that we can increase the store, and take it home more often. It must help us in the big context to keep our money reserves and other things. I want to thank you. A senator for this fine journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-21-69.u118	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the candidate of the proposal for putting it in and saying yes. paritaprevir It's time for her Egilsdóttir, Engil, to arrive at the age of 17 to18 in this principle that apparently has not worked as it should. Of course, certain companies have taken responsibility for their affairs and followed them, but it is very bad that they are not in general. I would like to view this as only quality and even environment, quality in the sense that commerce and services do not agree to have consistent rules so that the consumer can walk to them as a lie. I refer there to the travel service where the sink has been very strong. Businesses must meet certain conditions for quality, and consumers have certain guarantees. It may be possible to consider being part of these procedures and taking community responsibility as the core of business and services. From the environmental elements, you can see a measure of waste in this category when people, for example, sit down. Raised with many of the same books. In fact, we might be able to give them at the next Christmas, but they would be old. You have to come out things you can't return within a deadline. The report shows that people in the country and other people who do not have housebound or are not able to return within a set time frame, although they may not necessarily be long distances, time is quite tight. You pick up the Christmas package on December 24, and you have to return or replace it by December 30. That's a very bad thing. We can also see this on Facebook pages where things are buying and selling that clothes are offered for sale with the price tag on them. Sad to say, people have to take the initiative to sell their Christmas gift in January because they did not get it to Reykjavík and return it to them for a certain time, but the garment does not fit or so. It also contains waste and chicken shrinkage. The person who gave the gift or bought the full price of the product, after which it is less marked or the receiver receives less money for the gift of trying to sell it in an East country or anywhere else. There's a lot of friends in this case, but I'm glad you're here. There is a great need for that. This is, as I say, the quality, dress and environment towards waste, and there's an opportunity with a good introduction to try to get the trade and service sector into the process of working better on their own business and having more respect for the consumer in this matter. It has been said for a long time, and I think it is quite true that consumers in general are not very aware of their rights, which are probably because they are so different, people are not trusting to follow along and even lose the opportunity where due is just due according to the procedure. However, they realize it not because they think they're shorter. And it's kind of ridiculous when people buy deposit notes with a shameful deadline, because there's a direct amount of money being placed in a particular company and the buyer should have at least one. 4 years if needed, i.e. if the business continues. I hope that's how it is at most places, or the court will move on to the next person. I'm here to celebrate the proposal, and I hope she has some good publicity, and she'll be taken care of by the Council.
