ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u1	It is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer today than is recommended by the Congress. If no one says anything, we will see it approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u2	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. Thirty-four3 on fiscal taxes, from the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u3	Mr. President. Last night, watching the news show Hick and reading the news on the activity of Samherja in Africa. Bribes, tax conditions, money laundering, corruption, greed, and the influence and influence of rich people on land and nation - that is my prime concern after this shocking news. V.E.G. The Prime Minister has taken it in Pirata's request for a special discussion of corruption tomorrow, and hopefully she will be on the program, but I also wish that it would be the highest. The marine and agricultural ministers will be in response at an unscheduled time of inquiry tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u4	President. I agree with the wish that the minister of the sea will be present without prepare requests tomorrow as well as the prime minister. I understand that the Prime Minister has given a statement or is interested in discussing corruption here tomorrow in special discussions, which Pirats and I asked immediately after the Show last night, and now it is only in the hands of presidents to prioritize the program tomorrow and decide how important it is to discuss corruption here after this rather extreme aspect that we saw last night and news of Samherja. I think it's important that we take this discussion because it's quite clear that this swamp of innocent, depravity little Iceland is dead, and we have to discuss these matters very seriously here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u5	Mr. President. I come up here alone to say nothing less of a request to the President that, if possible, he might have a prerogative. High minister of the seas and the highest. The prime minister here will be among the ministers to answer tomorrow under unprepared queries. This is a serious issue that has been discussed in the media during the past 24 hours, a matter that must be taken seriously. We have to do our job, and it's very important that we have, at the beginning of the time, that these stewards at least begin to feel access. I expect it will be possible to accept our request.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u6	A respectable president. I agree that we're going to get a special talk about this. But what beats me is that it's been a year since we got to the world's news about drunks at a bar 100 m away from here. Who was blamed for that? Who was blamed for this? Yeah, the informant. What are we having today? A corruption that is only far beyond what you can imagine. And who is blamed? The informant. I think we have to start taking a look at ourselves at this council and realize that, at the same time we're going through this, we can't even, telling everything about our story, make sure that the yoke company like a small loan has stopped working. If we cannot, how on earth will we deal with such corruption?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u7	A respectable president. I won't say much about the President's conference board in any other respect, but I'm just gonna go to the president's room, so I'm gonna have to go after me to come here and be there for some unprepared inquiry in the morning. Of course I will. I have never objected to going to the council for the rest of my life, and honor is shown with the opportunity to participate in discussions about this tragic and immoral matter. I think there's a full need to take it by tomorrow, and I don't interrupt that discussion and thank you for the invitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u8	Mr. President. I think the entire body of Congress is horrified over the image that was drawn from an Icelandic African company and how it behaved, and hopefully everyone in the country that I don't doubt. I am glad that the prime minister has agreed to take up a discussion tomorrow about corruption, but there is good reason for us to discuss it in this hall what is going on and what can be added. I'm glad I'm at the highest. I'll have a sea emissary in inquiry tomorrow. All these matters are taken very seriously. We all need to do that, and we're looking for the government in Iceland to work well, what it does. These cases have come into the table of the prosecutor, and I think it's proper that there is a general inspection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u9	President wants to celebrate the Supreme Court. Marine and agricultural ministers have already responded to the request presented here at the beginning of the year. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir Daughter, chairman of the United States Parliament. The president also wants to inform us that he has been in contact this morning on behalf of the request that there be a special discussion on these matters tomorrow and hopefully this will be possible. Of course, this is a bit dependent on the development of 2nd. of the budgets and votes we had planned to try tomorrow. The president also wants to inform us that he intends to make a meeting with the chairman of a gathering for supper, to review the situation, and to discuss these and other matters and how we can schedule things tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u10	President. I think it's important that it come out, and now I never like to be rude in any way, that I don't feel it proper to set this matter up so that there should be a bite or contract between the council groups, i.e. that if we cut down our speech sessions, we may be given a special discussion about corruption after the important news that happened yesterday. I'm sure we have a special discussion, that's what it needs. We want to discuss this after receiving this important information last night, and this is important for our Senate work. I regret that we are about to attend the following session to prepare a talk lesson on the budget for this discussion. I think it's important to come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u11	President thinks we're gonna do it. A senator had completely misunderstood his words. There was nothing like that in my words or that I felt was a reason to interpret it. I was merely pointing to the pragmatic reality we are facing, that we have to somehow try to put it in the schedule tomorrow as best we can, and timing is important there. That is what the president had in mind to review with the council presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u12	Mr. President. Here we are asking the U.S. Congress to provide variations so that we can provide two more new budgets for the budget. In view of the results of the UN investigation, we now move to strengthen the office of the district attorney and the tax investigator on the other hand. Both of these positions are available today, and there is now a complex international deal that requires increased resources and resources. Dear senators. Iceland is back on the world press, and it's not good. So let us do this properly and agree to allow these adjustments and then accept them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u13	A respectable president. We're discussing bill for budget by 2020. Last night, in the discussion that has been followed by the Turnsy Show, I am half-hearted and began to wonder that in the budget a $2.1 billion reduction in hunting costs is expected. It really hit me when I looked at the website of the Red Cross of Iceland, which is a page called Sonar. It says, under the permission of a president: ▪ The cross has established a fund that provides relief for those who live in desperate straits. For a temporary task, however, the Red Cross wants to promote support and represent those who are in dire need. To assess the right to strength, a person is reliant. Candidates less than 18 years of age are not entitled to a scholarship or to students in a credit - based study with LIN. One receives 40,000 bucks. in strength, but a married couple and a couple at a rate of 50,000. in strength. It's going up by 1 0,000 times. for each child under the age of 18 who is under the authority of the candidate and in the same home as the applicant. [...] A maximum strength can be given to the same candidate twice during the calendar year. You will not be given more than two months after the application is submitted. An application can be sent through the home page. In itself, it is fine for the unfortunate in this society to know that there is a small help there. It also shows that the clothing distribution of Iceland's Red Cross can be sought, to help Iceland's Family Help, Mother Control Committee, the Church's Help Department, Congregational Branch, Joint Help, and the Social Association of Single Parents. I can't help it, because most poor people get 214,519 bucks. a month after taxation. A large proportion of the older citizens of this country get 212,902k. paid to survive. It tells itself that at the same time it looks like this, this system's reduced gigantian. Pension funds are reduced by 80% and more than 60% in pensioners and in pensioners. The difference lies only in the receiving of 25,000 credit to pensioners. Free income fees on a pension fund. In many respects, therefore, the current government budget and the greater part of the Committee are celebrated and thanked. ...a Christmas bonus in December, with no taxes and no impairment. The most serious thing about this is that while we're putting this little money in, about 80% of their pension income is being cut off, 50,000 dollars. A pension fund yields 10,000 bucks. It's not enough, though, the weirdest part of this system is that these pension payments, 50,000 bucks, which only return 10,000 bucks, are also used to cut Christmas bonus and holiday replacements at the same time as the members of Congress and other employees receive more than twice as much Christmas bonus as microchip and pensioners without impairment. I'm asking you how have we been able to create such an inhuman system that the first thing we can do is cut $50,000. A pension fund to $10,000, and once a month has been cut down to a month, use it as a cutting holiday bonus and a Christmas bonus? I gave a talk about it last year, during the last stipulation, and also pointed out that a lot of people don't get a dollar in a Christmas bonus because of these amazing losses. Happily, though, they now receive 10,000 bucks. Strength. I'm sorry, but I think it's enough because these increases have usually been taken back by charges and taxes. The review of Iceland's Bank on a bill for the budget of 2020 reveals a number of facts. By permission of the president, they include word for word: ▪ All case groups involving disabled persons and microattainers are starving, and despite government talk too strongly about the raising of disability and the addition of significant financial resources to cases of disabled persons and disability, people still lack much satisfaction in living with dignity in Icelandic society. The rights of this group are very important. The Icelandic government is to ensure a community without discrimination, a society where disabled and long - suffering people have the right to life just as others do. To that end, a significant increase in funding is to be expected into all kinds of cases involving disabled people. [Nations of the United Nations] was validated in the fall of 2016. It is important to secure funding specifically to introduce the contract in Icelandic correctly. The contract's hiding even In addition to the State's obligation to pay particular attention to the status of disabled persons in all legal procedures, especially in the legal capacity. A special disappointment, then, is the failure to see that there is no improvement, the direct cut with the bill is unacceptable. There will also be funding for the growth of NAPA agreements, which are for many the key to their ability to enjoy their right to independent life, such as 19. The contract.How's it going? Sadly, poverty - related causes and circumstances of disabled people have been left behind as well as in a large number of altruistic pensioners who live in poverty. The financial bill has taken little account of what the European Parliament has asked for and including has shown that only an increase of 3.5% for disability and not a follow-up of pay development should be done according to the 69th paragraph. Social Security Act. We're talking about a very small rise, and we're talking about 8,651 k. on unmoved pension, i.e. 247,000 p.m. of 255,834 k. for tax. If the pay sheet had been used, it would be 5.5%, and if the current government had applied to pay development, there would be a much higher rate of disability than this one anticipated. A statement is stated in the review of the Corporate Community to the Fundament Committee, by permission of a president: ▪ The Armistical Meeting of the Organization challenged the nation's use of its means to end the wait already. No one knows who next has to rely on an ignominious disability pension. During 2008, the minimum wage and incessant biofuels were understood. In 2019 microenergy pensions are $70,000. lower than minimum wage. The financial bill now available for the Council does not change, so the gap will increase by about 90,000 dollars. at month (s) There's going to be a gigant difference between the minimum wage and those who have to live in the disability business as well as those in pensions who have to live on, as mentioned earlier, $22,000. by tax. We need to realize that from 2009 to 2018, which is made clear in the review of the Corporate Community, undeserved micro-energy pensions have increased by 85,000 dollars, a minimum wage of 143,000 k, a total wage of 256,000. - but the total income is only about 106,000 dollars. Time and again, it is at the expense of disability. Then you must also keep this in mind, which is made clear in the review, with the permission of a president: Since 2013 the number of taxes on individuals has increased as a government priority and provisional income has increased dramatically. However, research has shown that in the past few years, low - income workers have shown an ever higher tax burden, and this claim is wrong in view of low - income workers. The bill further claims that a new tax system will greatly reduce the tax burden of low and intermediate carers and that the reduction in individual income taxes is largely important in the interests of the income. What is the amount of tax loss that disability pensioners can expect in 2020, if the budget becomes legal? Microenergy pensioner with a deficient microenergy pension, 247,183 k. a month for taxes, pays 34.862. on income taxes and in the year 2019 or 14% of their income. If social security bills increase by 3.5% (or 255,834 k.), taxpropentan reduces to 35.04% and a personal discount drops to 55,364 k. At the beginning of 2020, he will pay $34,280. ... ina taxor 13% of their income. Therefore, his budget for the tax reforms will be increased only by 582 k. a month or 6,984K. in the year. The financial bill further says that a new tax system is in their interest, and it will greatly reduce the tax burden of low income and middle income groups. The impact of the taxation change for micro-energy donors and others with very low incomes is negligible, as can be seen on table... These are striking numbers, and it's frightening to think that there's a lot of talk, and it's just great that someone has a raise of 582. As I've often pointed out, the tax burden on pensioners and the lowest salary has increased dramatically since 1988. If correctly calculated, income would be less than 300,000 dollars. I don't pay no taxes, nobody gets less. Sadly, this is not so good, for the tax load continues to increase on those who should be least paid taxes and should not be paid taxes at all. If at any time there was a need for a change in the system, we'll have the people's Gang pointed out that this should change the person's discount. Those of the highest salary have nothing to do with personal discounts. For those of us who have grown to 2◯3 million, a personal discount is so small that even if they did not have it, they would hardly notice. Then another fact is made clear in the review of the Quantum Community, by permission of a president: If a job fair had gone up according to an increase in salary levels since 2009, the average off income would be more than 207,000 dollars. per month instead of 109,600 kr. This stands in stark contrast with the fact that the government is always talking about the work programme. If there was a wish, and would have been to allow the microchip to work, then it would be in this number it should be 207,000- call, which shows that it is not willing. The majority of the committees make it clear, and it is actually one of the most remarkable things you have seen in this system that no more has been discussed. It says, under the permission of a president: However, with the latest figures, the increase has been greatly slowed and, as a percentage of the population, slightly decreased from 9.9% to 9.9% in January 2018 to 9.8% this year. That's where we're talking about a reduction in the number of microbes. Only a few months ago, ministers and others came up into that chair, claiming that if there was no time for microengineering performance assessments, everything would turn to one end. There would be tens of billions of increase that would have to be added to the system to sustain the multiplicity of microplicity. Which one was to increase most? Yes, young microloafs, they should have increased completely, but a recent report released all of this off the board. It shows that among women aged 50 and up to 65, the largest number of disabilitys is among women. Why should this be so? Yes, they have low - paying jobs, their children are usually on their shoulders, and even two, three jobs to do. When there is a large proportion of women in shift work, and we must also ask in this context: Why does near a thousand nurses not want to work as nurses? How much pressure is inside? How much of it is shift work? How much of it doesn't qualify? At the time of this, there should be plenty of money in relation to what they expected to have to put into this huge increase in disability that was supposed to happen to us, there should be money to do something about them. At the same time, in Floki's people, we've put in a bill to take credits from the pension fund, to take the tax right away. That discussion was done here only in reply. What are the reasons for doing this? Yes, they're saying the system is breaking down. There are plenty of people out there who don't have knives and spoons. It could be handled. Our medical system is in total paralysis, and we're not even going to do this financial bill to make sure the hospitals and the emergency department can function properly. The pressure is increasing, and we need to find money. No, says the government, no, we'd rather - and it's incomprehensible to the news coming from corruption and other things that we're still trusting and believing in certain forces for having a large fortune, not 100 billion, but thousands of billions, tax dollars on the market and then glammblahing with them. What's the most important thing about this is that we've got about a third of the pensions we've got for the money. It costs us a third of tens of billions to run this phenomenon. Who in large measure rule there? Business organization. There is another thing that no one can know, and no one can get in and what this money is all about abroad. How much are we paying for this? There's a lot of money that no one can somehow find out about, so I'm thinking about something else in that context. They're going to put on the National Fund and he's going to do business abroad. Who's going to take care of him? How much? Will it be beneficial? I doubt it. Another thing I've already pointed to, and it's also clearly stated in a review of the Quantum Community on December and holiday improvements. I can't help but wonder what's wrong with government soul after government, who's been in charge of finding motivation to cut off a Christmas bonus and cut off holiday pay that's already been cut off. First, we're going to have a quarter, 1 0,000. Then it is used again to impair the orcs and the Christmas bonus. What is it in our system that allows things like this to go on? I'm shocked and I'm so offended that it's this way. At the same time, we watch what is being paid for a Christmas bonus. Pensions received 43,103 k. In 2018, Kingdom workers have been assigned in 89,000. and jobseekers at 81,000. Even out - of - work jobs get nearly half that much of that. Is it impaired? Yeah, maybe their income, I don't know. But why? First, who calculated that the cost of a job would be 30,000 dollars? More than a month than a cripple, and second, do they need twice as much Christmas bonus as a cripple? How on earth is that worth it? I don't understand, and with the permission of the President, I'm going to quote from the CREEP Association: It is important to bear in mind that only a part of a pensioner receives unskilled December and holiday improvements as they are calculated as share of income insurance and household satisfaction, but only about 29% of microenergy donors receive paid domesticly. Pensions don't pay holiday or December. So part of a pensioner will receive no or very reduced December and holiday supplementation. This is exactly what I was saying before. There is another factor in this: an incomprehensible phenomenon. Why, on the other hand, are we not confused about real-time benefits? One of the main reasons I got from the government insurance agency was because the Agency didn't get real-time information from the pension fund. That's one of the things we need to wind up. I was very happy when a minister of finance declared that he agreed that there was a need to be determined to do this during a real - life period. In the past, it was said it was the best, it would have been so cool that it would be so intense an increase, but as we know we'll always forget to include the increases of all the declines that occur a year later, all over the system. It is not enough for us to calculate the declines within the insurance agency, but we also need to calculate the reductions in our rural areas. We create an amazing system that is chained above, apparently solely in order to reduce the benefits of disability and pensioners. We also have an amazing system that has surprised me and that is, in fact, a major disgrace to us, and that is the impairment of farms. Happily, the U.S. legislature agent took it, but unfortunately, as the verb put it, in the terms of the Quantum Community, it provides an example of a situation where individuals have been stuck in very poor condition without a cure. Subjects have had to rely on total income that is much below all income targets, including the provision criteria under social assistance laws. In 2017, 92 pensioners had an total of 80,000 dollars. ombitasvir/paritaprevir/rito How on earth can we do this? How can we pay someone and say, "Hey, you're going to survive 80,000 bucks." a month? I thought that we had long since canceled income ties with a marriage mate. Perhaps a person could survive if he has a marriage mate, but I ask about individuals who do not have a marriage mate. How do these 92 pensioners survive this? They have to go to the local community. The question is, will they get their forwards there? I don't know. The budget bill shows that, according to the bill, there are a lot odd things, but one of the causes of disabled persons is in the 2730 '30's, with total financial resources estimated 601 million by the Treaty in 2020. K. It reduces 9.5 billion from current financial laws, and it is distressing. One thing that is joyous and should be thanked - as I would say, is due to a person's little or nothing - is likely to be restricted from ever - increasing education. However, there is also a need to spit in and one of the things we need to handle and put money in is MPA. Sadly, the ministry there is not as it should be, and many individuals do not receive it. It sucks to know that we have a system so that disabled individuals who cannot support themselves are saved in their own institutions or in their own rooms. It's against all human rights and the United Nations Convention, and it really needs to be cleaned up. It is reserved for the review of the Quantum Community. One of the things I'm also going to step in and say for a word, by permission of the president, is from the Health Care Unit section: The Treaty states: The government is going to reduce patient payment and make it more beneficial and efficient. The results of the current system need to be assessed in the light of the weakest people and considered factors that are not part of it, e.g. travel and living expenses, dentistry and psychology services. A recent payment system has been found to be more expensive for some groups of patients, and a large number of patients are missing out on pairs with what happens elsewhere in the North countries. In the new system, biofuels pay 2/3 off the cost of public health care, with a ratio of 30◯50% in the first system. It is not in accordance with a defined system goal to reduce the cost of most users of health care. In the 2020 budget bill, contributions are raised by 300 million. K. to reduce patient collection by the healthcare system, but according to a schedule of 800 million. K. for the next four years. It's about 500 million. K. and it is not entirely credible when the days of debt are delayed. That's where we have to get our shit together, and then we're also in dental work. What a surprise it is that we have a large number of people outside who cannot find dentists and that somehow we have separated them from other health care services, and to our great shame! Then there's something else that's in the attic, and it's physical therapy. It is a serious matter that the network of physical therapists has been destroyed. I believe that much of the reduction in the incidence of disability is caused by a large number of people who were unable to afford it in the past. When 600 million people pass out on budgets, any alarm bells and everything else turn upside down at the end of that system, but at the same time we're calling no alarm alarms when the system expands out uncontrollably. I've mentioned before, and there are as many times as possible, that the media board gets 500 million, a media board with the government of Iceland's Journalist Association, and if I recall correctly. I think this one of unnecessary committees needs to be cleaned up, but somehow the surveillance committees seem to be running out completely out of control. They have doubled over ten years, and values have gone from 226 to 691 - and what is the effectiveness of this? There seems to be no follow-up, but there seems to be plenty of money to expand the system. On the other hand, it seems that little money is spent in making a person's life desperate and senile so that they do not have to live in a state of poverty or simply with poverty. At the People's Tracks, we also gave a bill to cut off the value tax from the tools and, under the heading of the Corporate Community, this claim is made clear. It's sort of incomprehensible in this context, and especially if we look at the fact that there's a bill on the ability to work from the social and child - care minister. Then we must make sure that these tools are not taxed, but this is not enough because the strangest thing about this planned performance is that jobs are not available for these people, usually neither for the state nor for the local community. In fact, when there's something hard about the job market, it seems that these are the first people left out, people with disability. We've seen this. We witnessed the reorganization of the bus. At that time, subjects in wheelchairs first quit, and even after that, the system was not working very well. There's something strange that needs to be handled as a child's compensation. We start cutting children's benefits just amazingly early in the process. It is really incomprehensible, and especially in the case that child reforms and interest improvements have not increased, but they have merged. Prices are much lower now. It's like having a lot of other things in the system we have, increasing the limit of the declines have not been followed by pay development, and that's one of the things that actually prescribes a certain tax because they start to be cut earlier in people, and as a result, they're my revenues. I thought you'd try to take good care of the children because they're getting older and they can't help seeing that people can have children without throwing their financial foundation into confusion. Unfortunately, there is much better to be done there. I'm still going to step down, with the permission of the President, word for word in the review of the Corporate Community: To do this, the government must act in a decisive manner. The bill suggests that the calculation rules of the growth reform system remain unchanged, which is very sorry. The same amount is estimated for 2020 and was planned for 2019, or 3.4 billion dollars. As a result, growth contributions diminish another year. They were 6 billion years old. In 2017, less than 12 billion years. 2010 What does this tell us? This tells us that those who should be least pressed are being pressed. There's another thing about this: Achieving a income target is more important than making interest improvements to a person with 4 billion. K. a year's pay, it's down to $340,000. ... fromgrains. There is a significant decrease in nonprofit income, and there is no evidence that any change should be made. The number of growth reforms has increased and today is 8.5% of earnings derived from interest charges in calculation, which was 6% by 2009. It's kind of strange that we're in position to have a budget on this project because it's obvious that at Iceland's Institute of Generosity, something has been listened to but very little. Similarly, e.g. For example, the National Association's review of a bill for financing before 2020. They also point to the UN's agreement on the issues of the disabled and the appendix, and there are, of course, steps that must be taken in taking care of all of this, legal procedures, and other matters so that they will abide by and see to it that the rights of the disabled are respected so that they can live a decent life. Another piece of work I did is a new proposal for a bill for budgeting for 2020 on deck. 446. It speaks of selling property in the state of the Vifilas, which is not useful to government operations, to be owned. I can't see how we can come up with this because I think that Vifilos are the perfect place for the nearest hospital. It needs to be considered as soon as possible. The fact that the state is about to sell this place is totally incomprehensible to me because it's the perfect place for a hospital. Selling a lot of real estate seems to be going on, which is the strangest. We're in the Gang of the People for our change and for the members of the Arts of the United States. Drug abuse is a very serious matter. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland, it's a terrible idea if we get only 10% of the drug imports from the market and a good third ton of drugs flow into the country. Police and customs departments need big help, but unfortunately, there is nothing in this government's bill that they're doing. In many ways, it is amazing, but we are strengthening the private media about 400 million, absolutely amazing. At the same time we say we don't have money to make sure people don't have to apply for poverty or very poor resources, we're adding money to the media about 400 million. I see my time is running out. I don't have high hopes for major changes in this government, but hopefully soon we'll be able to see that everyone in Iceland can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u14	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill for budgeting by 2020 at 2nd. I just wanted to start discussing the matter in a larger context of economics, how we're dealing with the budgets and changing financial policies, etc. The incident, due to the circumstances that occurred at the beginning of the year, was the fall of WOW air. WOW's pitfalls made us aware and appeared at the end of the month March. At the same time, it was reported that there would be no homophobic and no hairy hunt. I understand that it is the first time in over 25 years that this situation arises. In addition, problems were added with the MAXs of Icelanda. Icelanders are expected to be the worst-growing airline in the affairs of the MAX machines and their immobilisation, and thus Iceland was kind of the independent country which has been the worst out of the economic retention of the MAX machines, the most impact has been achieved. The changed circumstances were thus reflected in an up - to - date judgment of the Habitat in May, and because of the slowness of the bankruptcy in May, the effect even unknown, the timing of the bottom and the degree of resistance, it was considered reasonable, and the ability to allow for further deterioration of the prospects. I'll get better on it right after. Yet, it is the big change now in Iceland's currency creation and has been manifest with full force in recent years, especially in the last decade, that Iceland's currency - making articles and employment have changed dramatically in a very short period of time. In the last few years, the fishing route produced some 809,85% of Iceland's currency for us, but it is now in recent years that the sea route has produced some 1,9,20% of the currency, the gross industry, and the tourism have been around 40%. This tremendous change has transformed the European economy that I believe is quite strong in this downturn or smooth landing that takes place this year with an estimated 0.3% catch of state funds. This has never happened before, since great antinegros have been happening in Iceland every seven or eight years since the Republic's establishment, so the conditions that are developing today are very different from those we have seen before. These grounds are thought to be primarily due to the change of combinations in the currency of articles. The marine road, the big industry, tourism, and export of high - tech equipment on a seabed have significantly changed this position. This great change is evident mainly in powerful economic roads, which are highly currency-based and influx of currency into Iceland, has changed in a short period of time and is creating a whole different economic framework in Iceland than we have known before. Therefore, I feel that it is difficult to link the last decades to the economy that is up and down this loss. The situation is changed in every aspect of the world. When we're talking about 40% of the inexpensive branches in tourism, it's a natural airline in it, and it's always in historical context around 35% of the tourist service, the currency that has developed through the air traffic. How amazing, then, that the situation is no worse than the previous part of the year, with all the traumatic events that we experienced in the first half of the year, and that the place is considered to be only 0.3% in 2020. In many areas, it is being questioned, trying to keep the government in balance. The budget for the road system will be 27 billion dollars. The next year, it's about 3.9 billion from the current budget. These contributions are the highest from 1998, with the exception of 2008 and 2009 on the price of 2020 according to the index price of consumption. The Icelandic house, the construction of a new Land Hospital, the construction of a new ocean research vessel, the purchase of three new helicopters, the total supply of new helicopters next year is 2.1 billion. in the bill, but the amount was 1.9 billion. ... inprecautiouslaws. In budgets for 2017, an investment in material possessions came to 36.2 billion dollars. but the bill assumes an investment of 72.4 billion. twice since 2017, the increase since 2019 is more than 10 billion. which is an increase of 17%. I'd like to talk to you about the change in uncertainty. It was adopted in a revised financial policy during the first part of the year where the objective of government survival was set up, which includes a predetermined period of 0.8% of GDP in the year 2019◯2022 towards the target set up in annual financial programmes. The purpose of this new system, the aims of the policy, is that the government has more flexibility in adapting schemes to less economic trends than expected with agreed financial policy. The process we are involved in is developing, and there is an inexplicably uncertain range. The state of state funds is very different, but it was only a few years ago, and the growth environment is also very different. It is natural that the objective of government policy should change under different circumstances. Improving the debt status of the state's budget and historical low interest mean that a small decline in the business of a government fund because of worsening economic conditions has far less negative results. In addition, national savings have recently been at or near the climax of historical history. Increased savings involves greater resistance to tragedy and the higher foreign property status of the nation's population. Today, we have a positive attitude toward more than 20% of the Icelandic national population and are up to the population of Switzerland in that proportion. This is an amazing transformation that has become in a few years. The role of the government is to soften the impact of the decline. Substitution before the economy regains its ability to restore its weapons can increase the hold of the state funds and reduce the ability of the economy. Thus, in this financial bill it is safe to believe that the government is supporting the function of the economy. Public donations will be greatly increased to offset the decline in employment investment and are involved in measures to minimise the impact of the decline. This budget has been updated in view of new information since the June issue of this magazine. These data include stress and tax collections and pay until the end of October, updating national interest, and other relevant information relevant to the next year's payoff. At the same time, there have been some changes in the part of the work programme that has to do with new plans. The conclusion of the overall reassessment is that the total income of 2020 will be 10.6 billion. less than the bill plan. All types of taxes and insurance costs are somewhat reduced from previous national budgets for 2020, where both real and name sizes rise less from year one to the previous. The pay stock of the next year will be 2.5% lower due to less employment and less pay range from the late 2019 to the next year. In addition, taxation and insurance costs, combined with a third of the total income of the year, are adversely affected by these low - quality job views. Most consumer taxes also decrease because of the decrease in income and private consumption. However, the value of extra tax is an exception where tourism has a more positive effect, both lower consumption by Icelanders abroad and more consumption by local tourists, as well as a positive reassessment of the previous year. The planned system changes, resulting in a total of 4.6 billion dollars. to make new income, either to be removed, or to be considered. This is true in terms of collection of tourism services and altered taxation equipment, which are not expected next year and cost of waste, but the implementation of such taxation is considered. This will be expected by less taxes on a company than before, in the light of the existing pressures on business in the past year and less activities in 2019. Finally, it is taken into account that specific Member States' aims to support energy change and eco-friendly transport, according to the existing bill of government consultation, will lead to a 1.4 billion dollars. I'll take less money next year. In all, estimated taxes and insurance costs decrease by 15.4 billion dollars. Fishing costs decline by 2.1 billion. Based on evidence of the expected calculation of fishing bills in the next year of fishing. The reduction results from the more investment of the production. Low interest rates lead to 0.5 billion dollars. lower interest revenues, as well as lower revenues expected from the ATVR. In turn, estimated revenues of sales of domesticized emissions are rising by 4.8 billion dollars per year. All I want to do is slip into the World Bank report. In an consideration of the World Bank on the status of the Icelandic economy, which was presented. Friday, reports that relaxation in the maintenance of government budgets and the decline of sectoral growth as a result of earlier economic conflicts has been the right economic response on the part of the government and has softened the economy. Icelandic economy's pillars are strong, and there is a basis for economic growth to take on. Among the points listed by the AGS delegation are some of the points presented in the Fund's presentation from this weekend, and I'm going to make a decision. It will come, for example. ... tothatthe government's economic response following the fall of WOW args and other economic conflicts earlier in the year were in short supply. Refer to the relaxation of soon and intermediate spending, as well as the reduction in sectoral growth. Substantial increases in labour contracts have also contributed to the lower unemployment rate. The largest sector in the European labour market is developed economy. It is also used by the AGS, which specifically says that the support of Iceland's economy is the strength and credibility of an economist has led to a milder downturn. The economy is ready to take over again. Proliferation is expected to increase for approximately 2% to an intermediate time. Advertisers have enough time to respond if economic growth is less than expected today. Enforcement of the state's budget is designed to increase the scope and credibility of the state policy. It is expected that the debt ratio of the government will continue to decline for an extended period of time, the credibility of money management is also high, and inflation is near its end. This is a good testimony to the International Cash Fund on the Economic Status in Iceland. I don't think he was as good in any of the AGS reports. A few days ago, a meal came from Moody's, which I also want to quote, by permission of the President, in a speech. In the Moody's case, which was introduced a few days ago, the assessment in Iceland is increased, in debt and economic situation. Until they set out the two main reasons for the rise, on the other hand, a substantial and sustained debt reduction of state funds and good status compared to other countries with the same credit rating and an increased economic resistance that increases the ability of the economy to cope with tragedy. The ever - present prospects reflect the expectations of continuing to be based on the results that have been achieved. In an announcement, the assessment firm points out that the State's debt has dropped substantially since 2011 and since the financial collapse of most of the countries that the company considers. Improving the terms of government funds, including through the introduction of a law on public finances, help to maintain this success. The benefits of the privatization of an enterprise on public property could further strengthen the government's economic account according to Moody's assessment. There's every reason to stop here and reiterate what's said in Moody's assessment, that Iceland should be reputed in the decrease of federal debt from the collapse of banks, of all the countries that Mood's has been evaluated. Since 2013 the Icelandic government responded correctly, and we continue on that course. We reduce taxes on the people of the country, we lower the income tax of 21 billion. every year. There will be 21 billion left in Icelandic households, but in the past there are taxes that are most likely to decline in low and intermediate income groups as well as in other income groups. We are also cutting down the insurance fees and extending more space to the companies in the country, which could be used to recruit more people, investments, or other things. We want more space to take advantage of opportunities, promote employment, and increase the variety of society. Then I'd like to discuss in particular two topic areas here today, on the 11th transport and communications sector, and then the 14th transport sector. I'm going to start with Article 11 and testify, with the permission of the president, to consider more of the legal committee: ▪ In accordance with financial programmes, there is a significant increase in transport investment and maintenance. From 2017 onward, the increase is 11.6 billion. or 32% in real value. The largest part of the increase will appear in the next year when special $3.9 billion is specified. There is an increase in implementation and maintenance where special attention is given to increasing traffic security. This budget will provide a total budget for maintenance of about 10.5 billion dollars. and contributions to building at 16.5 billion dollars. The development of budgets clearly shows how much has been added to investments. years. After reviewing the period further than 2017, the absolute value, according to the index price of consumption, has continued to increase since the lowest in 2012. This increased emphasis on infrastructure is in harmony with the government's administration covenant, and it is well thought that the need for the State to reduce its implementation despite predicting economic growth. This is also consistent with the results of the reviews of a number of people who have attended a meeting of the Committee. It is a joy to see that progressive financial support has been spent on roads in recent years, as the majority of legal committees highlight it. What is lacking, however, is that the funds spent in the maintenance and investments of the national airport systems have been extremely limited and especially since 2011 when the system's financing collapses were made when the current reserves were canceled and the revenues that used to fly to the international airport outside Chefigar Airport. As a result of this change, the price of a second flight turned into a service fee that ran to the Chefjordur airport. This resulted in an intermediate transfer of over 1 billion each year as income to the Cheflavor airport and into the accounts of Istavia. There was still an unfashionable flying system outside the Cheflavour Airport. A report issued by the workgroup to the secretary of transport at the beginning of December last year was entitled to the flying system and to the expansion of the national flight. It suggested that between January 1, 2020, international airports Cheflavík, Reykjavíkur Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Lamps Airport would be identified as a flying system with a common cost level, and Istavia entrusted with financial responsibility for business maintenance, maintenance, and structure. At the same time, the level of Istavia service at the airports would have to be set for the club. Iceland's national situation contributes greatly to the importance of the four international airports serving the international flight to and from Iceland and about the Icelandic airport as a single flying system. In fact, many international airports in Iceland outside Cheflavík have proved their value for flight security to and from the country, and they are important in their own security. Air traffic across Iceland has multiplied over the past few years, and in spite of temporary setbacks, it looks like traffic to and from the country will grow considerably in the future. In the approved member of the Isavia Ohf Society, dated May 2, 2013, the purpose of society is included. Caring for the operation and construction of airports, business of property, and other duties. It can be said that this suggestion of the Ministerial Service is being encouraged to follow the approved Society and its original goal for Istavia to build and drive a strong system of flights in Iceland. The Treaty states that there is a special tenant policy for Istavia. The aim of the State owner of Istavia is different from that of an investor in a market that looks primarily at what direct profit he makes from his investment. Thus, Istavia's tenet policy must also take into account other goals, such as rural, tourism, and employment development all over the country. So far, the Istavia government has not made suggestions on making money for the State since its establishment but has made a government decision that each year's profits are transferred to the next year. The company's money was at the end of June 2019... over 32.7 billion dollars. The sum of money was 41.6%. The collection of properties in the company was 24.6 billion. at the end of June 2019. Clearly, the financial and professional strength of Istavia has grown dramatically since its birth at 5.6 billion dollars. 2010 For the development of the Icelandic flying environment, it is important that Istavia should take the responsibility of its owner, the Icelandic State, to hide the company, both on the basis of its approved society, as well as on official financial and tenant policies. I'd also like to use this opportunity to mention what's going on, and I'm looking for a budget, i.e. The Scottish route to use in the latter part of the next year. I think it'll be in the fall. The idea, then, is to improve the availability of people with a home in the country away from Reykjavík, to equal access to a central service in Reykjavík, which has been built up in recent decades of education, health care, etc. The hope is high that this will strengthen the environment of people living in the country and access to important services. I'd also like to step into the 14 topic field, the tourism service. There's a 242 billion increase in contributions to the area. K., i.e. 14% in real value, from 2017 despite reduction of donations for Air Development Fund by 300 million. K. next year. The explanation of this is simply that there has been no need for payment from the fund to the extent to which it was intended so far. Still, the funds can be divided out and used for the collection of previous years. In other respects, contributions have been used to promote largely all policies and research in the topic field. Advertisers, along with the Ministry, have worked on the forward view and guidance of travel services to the year 2030. On this basis, action-based policy measures involved stakeholders from tourism, recruitment, organisations, rural areas and other tourism providers scheduled to be ready for March 2020. Based on the opinion of more part of the budget committee on the budget. It was suggested that we spend 25 million. K. to promote studies in tourism. In recent years, tourism has played a key role in currency support and has had a major impact on the economy of the nation. The following appeared to be in view of a greater proportion of budgetary committees by permission of presidents of 2020-2024: ▪ It is especially important to have the best view of the modern futures being made in flight through the Cheflavour Airport between passengers from flight to Iceland and those taking advantage of linking flights between Europe and America. These trends require specific attention and influence on the economy and tourism in Iceland. Now it seems to be drawing up that a combination of passengers of Illelands has changed considerably after the fall of WOW air. The focus of the airline has been reducing the share of the company's customers who have made good use of the cross-circuit airport and increasing the number of passengers flying to and from Iceland. Based on the figures presented due to the addition of the third quarter of a year to Icelanda, there have been considerable changes in the composition of the company. This has greatly reduced the shock of tourism during the fall of WOW arg. It could be said that if there is another balance in the Icelandic economy associated with each other across the ocean and possibly to Iceland, this ratio has changed over the last few months, perhaps two or three years ago. I'm happy for what's going on under 6. to make changes from a greater portion of the budget board, where there are several adjustments. I'm particularly welcome to rent or buy a building that'll be used to expand the base of the Akureyri Airport. So there is a possibility that the state can rent or buy from the companies' construction of the Akureyri airport, which is a very tourist service attached, to press and strengthen the portal into the north through the Akureyri Airport, and the need to have a facility at the airport so that people aren't waiting in line to the parking lot or to come into the country and not enter the airport as examples are. This is a lot of joy, and hopefully we'll be able to move on next year. It's good that the warrant comes from a budget committee and hopefully this will be approved by 2020. I want at the end of my talk to you and to be glad that in the amendment of the budget board it's like last year devoted 18 million to the Afghans as services in the north of the country and have ideas that the service of the East is more and more than it is done today, so that there will be a stronger link between North and Eastern countries in these matters. 18 million are spent with the Affliction to make more of the legal committees at 2nd. Then I especially rejoice that for the first time, funds are given to the Institute of Mental Health in Akureyri. The mask operates according to the ideologies of power, stressing that the individual is responsible for his own recovery and that all work is done on an equal basis. The idea is based on the successful job of Game in Reykjavík. This is the first time that Grófin's Institute of Mental Health is funded by funding, i.e. if the majority of the adjustment proposals will be adopted at the council. How positive it is to see that this work can be extended up north in that territory! Many interesting things have happened during those years in the economy that are involved in these financial laws. There were setbacks at the beginning of the year as I came in with the fall of WOWair, hairy failure, and the trouble with the stillness of Icielda's MAX engines. In my case here, I may have been taking it in the large context of how much our economy has been changing in the past decade, whether in the fishing field or in the big industry. Perhaps the general public did not realize what happened in 2006-2010 as the production of aluminium in the country grew by 50 percent, and there was a huge foundation for currency production into the country. This has led to a slight loss in the face of what took place in the field of tourism that has naturally changed this enormously. This is the big image, and that makes it difficult for me to assess economic developments in Iceland with the same light as the fluctuations that used to be here. Therefore, it is very exciting to investigate what has happened with this tremendous innuendos of currency and, as I did in many of my language here, how much it has had in many areas of society and in the economy of the nation, e.g. In the pension fund. Despite the huge amount of currency leaving the country through the investment policy of the pension fund, there has been incredible stability in the crew of the crown, and little is said of that in the large context. There is a very different balance, but we experienced it back in the past when relatively mild economic decorations could cause great disturbance of the state funds and the economy. But this is truly positive, and the discipline surrounding government laws has had a powerful effect, just to change this situation. Everything's looking fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u15	Mr. President. We're here on the budget bill after a discussion in the budget between discussions. I'm just gonna kill on a few more things in the majority opinion. I'm the first time since I started the council not on that committee. I'm there where an assistant is, so you're trying to keep your fingers in your pulse about the jobs in there. It has only been discussed with us on the work and other aspects, and it is discussed on the first page of this bill and it is always something we are trying to figure out more clearly how to make it most efficient and effective. It has improved over a year after those laws went into effect, and I must commend the committee for 2rd. could start at the time she was scheduled. It has been foreign for many years that this has been delayed, but not only did the bill come on time but we had time to read it and study before it was about 1st. started, and now it is at the right time. I think it's very good. My partner in the greater part has gone wide and I'm just going to skim on a big one, because more people are going to be taking on special factors, and I'm not going to talk for a very long time. However, there are these key priorities, which are targeted taxes and changes in income taxation that I consider worthy of mention and that are to be introduced in less time than expected at the beginning and not only, but the changes in the nature of the income tax points are consistent, with both the index price of consumers and therefore are more relevant to everyone. The defect does not shine as it did before. The insurance bill is about to go down. This helps employers to do better and maintain collective agreements. During the period from nine months to ten months, the birth lagoon is prolonged. This is one of our left-green struggles, which we've been talking for very long, as well as a growing contribution to child support and a significant rise in building ups as well. And as this has been attributed, significant investments will be made to the government in the years to come. We are faced with a shift of bill. You can see the law is working as if you'd wanted to see it working, i.e. There is a flexibility that expects us to go within this framework if that's what's needed in such a small community where income will fluctuate considerably. The survival goals of government policy have fallen to allow these automatic balances to function as long as we are getting out of the low level that came here as we know it, including Because of the fall of WOW, phlegm failure and other external factors beyond our control. I think it's a good thing, but we still need to look to the law further. I'm not going to get into it, though. Even though we look to other predictions, our leaders are based on the national ideals of the Hague as they always do. In view of what has been going on here, they have changed slightly quickly, the nature of the matter. Yet, it is not quite so that although the decrease in economic growth projections for the next year was due to be 2.6% but to 1.7%, many predicted that it did not happen so quickly as expected here. The measures presented here are based on the economic forecasts that a lot of people are producing, as I said before, in order to increase their domestic resources and increase demand with reductions in taxes and up-to-date transfers involving insurance, unemployment reforms, and so on. The late bank estimates that this will deliver about 0.5% of the budget for economic growth and 2% for private consumption in the years ahead, 20200/2022. The changes here made in the Kingdom Fund are numerous, but not so. There is something about practical move, as is often the case between discussions, yet there is also some improvements and other such, including Because of the birth stock, not just because of the extension, but because of the positive news that more parents use their rights in the fund. How happy all of us must be when we do so! The increase in government budget since 2017 has increased by about 158 billion, which is less than 19% in real value. I'm just gonna come in to a few topics. I have to mention the businessmen I've always spoken to. Here's 150 million. K. an increase that we recommended in the financial programme of that time. We're made of permanent access to the service database of the EICs. However, it is said that it may take three or four years for these matters to be docked and assigned to the money in accordance with management plans and results obtained by the office in reorganization of the function. We must bear in mind, though, that already many of them have cut down pretty much, and we need to be careful of these official jobs in the region. There is an enormous increase in transport, and from the same time, the increase is less than 12 billion, i.e. 32% absolute. It had become an enormous need, not just for transportation but for various infrastructures, whether it takes to reject or to other factors. A significant increase was made to the tourism area. Advertisers have worked along with the Ministry to support themselves and try to create some kind of guide for the future, at least to the next ten years. In our opinion of their financial plan. We've had 25 million for us. K. to promote research in a travel service that I think has to be done even more because it's what's kept us floating in currency and has had a tremendous impact on our economy. I'm not going to go deep on the environment because I assume that Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is going to go down to that party, and he's under the Committee at the council. I have to say, though, there's a huge increase in this and there's never been more, so we can't help putting on that big money. It has overall increased by more than 24% that the real value of the season is more real and we're going to have a further cut to the end, so we have to do it. I'm just gonna talk about school. High school gets less than 34 billion next year. It is only a slight experience, and as we know it, the study was reduced from four to three years, and fewer students are in school. I believe, however, that there is reason to look better at single schools. Some schools seem to come out just fine while others get less out of it. It is still appropriate to have internal rent that seems to be at some point in the Ministry from the way schools deal with the Ministry. I have to encourage the minister of the jury to take a closer look and to mention here in particular the engineering schools in my district, in the East and in Akureyri, to meet what is under it if we are going to live up to the name of promoting industrial and professional education. There is also an increase to the university if we set things straight because of LIN. I'm excited to see how the council will provide the new bill on the support network for students. I think it's a welcome change for all students to be able to deliver the bill and a great improvement in going to the same - time pay and borrowing a portion of the loans. No matter what health care may be like in the environment, a lot of money has been put on health care, and we continue to add to our health care because we want to make sure that it will be the first stop of health care professionals. This adds 200 million more to the previously added items that are specifically marked. Long - term attention is needed because as soon as our health care becomes strong, we also feel less pressure from the hospitals. It must be what we're trying to do, to be able to handle at least all in the first degree, but not everyone goes to the emergency room with an illness that can be solved by the health care provider. Mental - health structure continues to be emphasized throughout the country. This year alone 650 million were assigned to the business, with an additional 100 million, including 100 million today. to face even more the need we know is enormous. It doesn't matter there, as soon as this begins to get some strength from it on other systems. The health care of the elderly should be strengthened especially to bring in the health - care providers. That's what I think is very important, too. There are many factors that can bring relief to older citizens and, of course, only to support them physically, mentally, and physically. The health services of prisoners, especially mental - health services. There's an additional supply of 90 million and emphasis on reducing the patient's payment. Of course, 300 million are involved, for this is an important factor in equalizing the availability of people to health care. They have to try to increase the number of day - to - day estimates for people with dementia and flexible days, comparable to those opened in Akureyri this year. Nurses will continue to be built up, but we also know that they will take all the time and when things will take place in the direction they are meant to follow. The largest part of the committee's study of the Land Hospital and since spring has been done well in the hospital. Hospital service contributions since 2017 have increased by 13 billion, i.e. 1 1 1. We know that there is never any clear explanation for what causes the situation to be the way it is. It's the nurse's weight, the design, etc. But they're trying to talk about it and go over it, and we have to hope that somehow we can get through it. We've been discussing the nursing home in a financial committee, and I've heard that this too has been true, and I see in the committee that it continues to be discussed, especially in their business. It is extremely different, and we have received very different images in the budget of the operation and building and the appearance of all of this. Obviously, you can do better there. Here, for example. Create an idea that new solutions, both practical and practical, need to be examined when building such homes. Under that, I can take it. It is strange to listen to members who appear to have similar homes, but this is a very different business. Sadly, once again, as in the past, about innovation, research, and fields of knowledge, the research fund was cut down. Here's 50 million for research. If we're going to do what we can for the future, stand up for competition, I think it's one of the things we really need to take care of. There's a lot of other things I could go in, but I'm just gonna go grab some of the big ones. Here are your rural society, your balance fund, your law, and any of that underneath. Then there is a work assignment that we commit to work to do, i.e. between the Department of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, where funds are being made to be used for three years' initiative projects aimed at reducing the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria, when it was decided that we would need to be reassigned to non-unioned meat. Speaking of the environment, we have to take so much together. It is not just land transplants, forestry, and wetlands; there are so many other amazing things underneath. In the 15th, energy markets, a 50 million temporary contribution is expected due to the energy exchange in Kili. That is in addition to what is on page 18. 25 and already on the bill. I'd like to mention just before leaving a few things that a financial committee has taken on her arms and has been made aware of in some committee party frequently and many times, that somehow it's going badly to get the Ministry many of them to take care of themselves and make some sort of contracts. Rifi's research center receives 10 million temporary contributions, which is located on Roufar Harbor, and it has been a major research project, one of the things you can talk about as an official activity in the scattered areas. It is also fragile, so it is important to stay out of these activities. I've believed that the work of this agency has quite a number of services involved. I'm such a simple woman, I haven't thought it was a complicated matter, although four of the Ministry sat down and made a contract for a few cents for a job like this, but the management system obviously seems to be very, very, very difficult to look outside the box to make this way. There's something that I think needs to change. I'm just gonna go inside with culture, art, sports and youth. 6 million are taken to the United States Air Museum. There we have just received an officer, and I think this is one of the really important things, to maintain our story. That's 20 million, too. K. A donation to Vienna City, Burgur Valley, 8 million. K. contributes to the restoration and renovation of the Opafjörður site on the upper floor of Paul's house in Ólurfjörður. Then there's what may be part of school, and I think there's a reason to say that 30 million people are in MR and MA because they're completing the shortcut process, and it's taken a lot of action in these schools that have been rather trapped in their own form. But it's all happening. It's about 20 million here. K. ... toServiceLiver school at the pools. As I mentioned earlier regarding the housing team, there are other schools to consider. Here's 30 million down here. K. To the eastern bridge. I'd also like to say that the Ministry is supposed to take care of this and make a long-term contract. We have such contracts for every country, and it is very special that some one tool as service, such as in this case, over a large region, has shown excellent business in recent years, has taken over a large quarter, uniting much under and is a firm example that perhaps many others could take to heart, but some of the reasons the Ministry has not taken it to heart in the way that it needs to be done. In Sufficiency, both the LungA and the Flatlana People School receive 15 million each. K. a donation and this is because it has not been successfully completed. We agreed on spring days for a People School bill, and it takes some time to form and pass it, but I hope that next year we don't have to see it here in the Committee to do more part or less of the legal committee, but we're going to have it in the form that the bill was about to come. In view of changes made from the health insurance team to the Akureyri Hospital for Home Care, there is a change in hospital service. There are 54 million to strengthen the base of the network, as well as further proposals for emergency transport and flights that are not unnecessary. A respectable president. Now I'm going to stop. But last thing I'm going to say is that one of the things I'd like for a social minister to take over is the Team in Akureyri proposed to receive 18 million. It's like walking conventions here that don't need to come in to our budget committees, they're funded. We have a comparable service in four quarters, and one institution is not always required to attend to the financial committee while another receives financial payment from the Ministry. I must also say that I am very happy that the budget board has decided to give the Council '78 20 million. I thought it was very nice of you to do that. I think it's a job that we're supposed to be supporting very much, because we've also just accepted the sex-sustaining bill that is likely to have an impact on the fact that this organization will have even more to do with it. Finally, it is Grófin in Akureyri, a mental - health center, which receives 12 million. K. ... aapplication. They have not gone to the branch office before because they have had their own money and have gone about it. Now it's out. It is clear that these contributions are all for just one year, and there are many plans to secure this operation as a relief to the animal health system and to the animal social resources. It is a year ahead of us to ensure that the resources we have put into place in our schemes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to have her passage and vision - and then a view of the left green in the budget. I just wanted to come up here to ask you why. A senator's position on change proposals presented by the United States Group to a financial committee has turned toward the events that were received during the last few hours regarding the conduct of Samherja in Namibia. Changes to the budget are aimed at strengthening the institutions that now have to do almost all their tasks to start an investigation of these matters, as well as in caring for all the tasks assigned to them, i.e. On the other hand, tax economist and district attorney. There is a growing decrease in the number of local prosecutors and failure to listen to calls of prayer from which they have requested further financial support for the work. The number of staff has fallen greatly, and the police responsible for the economic crime at the local prosecutor's office is only 30, but the employees of the special prosecutors were 110 and would have had to be 150. I just want to hear what's going on. A senator, whether or not she intends to support the recommendations for additional funding for the office of the district attorney and the tax investigator on the other hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. But I have to start by saying I'm not representing the left green on a budget. It's Steinunn, Árnadóttir, Ánarnadóttir. But I've been there until this fall. Regarding this very sad subject that we heard most of last night and that has had the opportunity to see and hear of today, my attitude was expressed in a vote of itself. It'll only be seen when we vote. I'm not going to give it up in advance. It's clear that it's causing a lot of stress, I'll go with it. Senator. This puts extra stress on this office, and it may well be necessary to consider this, whether it is now or later. I have to admit that I don't know exactly what the financial standing of the office is. I don't know that they went to the Board of Justice or that they got a revelation in the Ministry or anything like that, like what they did. A senator would suggest, if I understand it correctly. They haven't put it on board, I think I'm right. I've read the reviews quite well. When such a big deal comes up, they'll come up on our system in some way, and we just have to consider it. It may well be that there will be discussions or such, that people need to be better aware of their position, whether or not they need to make adjustments. I'm not sure it'll work before tomorrow, but there's always a way to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u18	Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I'd like to turn myself over to the seminars that are part of a welfare committee. I can see why. A senator does not sit there either, but she will likely be aware of that discussion, after being on a budget board, which has been for years regarding land hospital status. All over the country, institutions have taken in recent years to close divisions and to discontinue services in any country, either in a rural or urban area, as a result of a lack of funds. Unfortunately, the government has not responded to calls for the necessary financial provisions, either last year, where 800 million injections were requested or now, at least not between 1 and 2. The establishments of the land need to reduce services that only result in the landspians getting all of this into them because the National Hospital is the final center. Unfortunately, the land hospital can't just say: No, we can't do it. They are not available as a national hospital. That's why I want to hear what's going on. For example, to accept suggestions of the 1st smaller part, i.e. The representatives of the United States, which are concerned with adding financial resources to Land Hospitals ◯ University Hospital, and on the other hand, raising funds to the health institutions in many parts of the country. We must agree that it is better for a patient to have an even more complicated procedure than that of having the ministry in his home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions, and he's trying to do my best. In the majority opinion, the committee has long discussed matters of the Land Hospital and has been putting in enormous amounts of money. It's quite true, as I mentioned earlier, that it takes quite a while for the system to start flonking properly. We're putting a lot of money on the clinic to make her the first stop, we're doing it all over the country, so we're trying to drag the service in there, as I said in my speech, which doesn't belong at the emergency room or somewhere, but all of this takes time. Yet, 13 billion more have since 2017. There is an enormous amount of money that has gone to the hospital service, and the committee has already checked, for example. The staff expenses of the 2014 hospital were 2018. Remuneration and other staff costs have increased by more than 19 billion during that period, an increase of 55% in four years. The pay balance increased at the same time by 36%. The rate of annual events increased from 3,700 to 4,300, by 15%, and if the rate did not increase, the percentage of staff costs would be consistent with the development of the pay sheet, as the commission stated. This is an emphasis on the need to analyze. This is not just because we have an increase in aging that can't go to nursing room, etc. There are a number of factors that need to be considered. Then there is the conflict, as we know about the existing cost of collective agreements. We have placed a lot of money and added it to health care. We put 400 million in clinics last year that were so permanent, so we've made a lot of money, but as I say, it takes time for this to work the way we want it to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u20	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the third budget at the highest level. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Governments derived from the left movement ◯ green supply and close cooperation with the forwarding party and the Independence Party. I had intended to take my case to the language that belongs to reason. well-being committee, but in view of recent developments, it is impossible to allow mention of law enforcement in the country and the need to ensure that all of us in the budget guarantee those involved in the investigation of the necessary funds so that there will be no justice. My main concern is two agencies, the district attorney on the one hand, and the tax investigator on the other. Therefore, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, v. A member of the Union, proposed a change in the proposal that these two institutions who have repeatedly made petitions to the secretary of finance for further financial gain receive a second life so that they can attend to the necessary economic and taxological research. They have repeatedly requested further financial support without success. paritaprevir In the United States, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson proposes that these institutions be funded. This was necessary before yesterday, but it is quite clear after last night that other matters that were significant have to be turned aside because of the alleged fragments of Samherja in Namibia and possibly other countries. It presents to the people, yes, and to the whole world, data indicating the huge fractions of the largest marine ectoplasmic enterprise in the country with regard to potential bribes, possible money laundering, possible fiscal violations, and possibly other offenses. Having now received such a revelation calls for extensive research as the office of the district attorney and the office of the head of the tax. If we speak only of the local prosecutor's position, it is worth reminding us that the office is established when the office of a special prosecutor is laid down. This office was specifically set up after the collapse of the Icelandic banks. The local prosecutor's office accepted all the duties of a special prosecutor and should be under the criminal treatment of various serious offenses under the legal requirement of the penal law, particularly against the legal violations of the financial violations of the law. Then the local prosecutor will also conduct a study of serious offenses against tax and customs laws, violations against currency laws, competitive business, stock markets, credit markets, and other financial activities, environmental offenses, work protection, fish control and other serious, unusual or organized financial crimes linked to business, business or business. Mr. President. These are considerable assignments, but they are not listed. The district attorney then appeals to cases involving these offenses. Such work requires many hands. The district attorney also opened up a small part of the job done by a State prosecutor and appeals to criminal charges in the event of a violation of some other legal regulations, other than economic violations, i.e. The sexual crimes of penalties, major drug cases, due to major physical injury, deliberate homicide, accidental homicide, criminal offenses, public crime, and depravity. Then the district attorney will also be investigating police officials for a criminal offense in the execution of the official employee or police officers other than the officials of the district attorney investigated by the State Attorney General. At last, the district attorney is investigating a violation against the government. To take this completely together, the district attorney also studies acts as a violation of violence against government officials, foreign countries, threats of violence, and other government officials, such as a bribe. It is therefore clear, Mr. President, that at this point in the history of the Icelandic nation, when there is strong suspicion of a number of cases of general penal law, it is absolutely necessary that the general budget, the Allied Council of Iceland, ensures the authorities taking investigation and the prosecutions of Icelandic economic and tax law violations, and obliges enough funds to get more hands on deck, though I ask. Councilmen and the highest. A president's apology is that if the illustration of getting more hands on a tire, it may be unfortunate in view of the recent days. During the time of special prosecutors, the 110 officials were present, but by then 150 would have been needed. They were then reduced to 70 when the biggest cow had left. At the beginning of the district prosecutors, they were 50 in all, and today they were in their investigation and the economic offense of the office only 30 employees, considerably fewer than they were when the special prosecutor was named. When we need to investigate similar issues and appear on the State Radio News Show, Hick, and last night's issue, we'll have to rise up to secure these funds. Therefore, I challenge the entire body of Congress, the management board as well as the government position, to vote for the change in the budget as the 1st subcommittee of the budget. paritaprevir And Ágúst the son of Ágústsson, this day. Mr. President. Then I'm going to move on to my health and welfare. In the third year, health institutions throughout the country, large and small, meet with the bodies of money committees with the same message, see that if they are to perform a legal service, if they are to do their government service, if they are to provide sufficient support for the elderly, the elderly, the family, the singles, the food - producing women, and the injured, governments have to disassociate their policies that the institutions continually bring up sails because of insufficient financial progress. In spite of the growing number of projects, significant increases in the population's population's population's population's life span, the governments allow themselves to compare contributions to health in general over a period of five and ten years, as well as a driving period. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir did here earlier. She compared medical contributions in 2007 with today, in 2019, and even next year, 2020. Government officials have allowed themselves to cry out that they are constantly adding. V.E.G. The secretary of finance recently allowed himself to state in the media that there is only something wrong with such a system that is more and more stable than it is in trouble, pointing them to the Hospital. Yeah, something's wrong. What's wrong with this system is the lack of understanding by the government on the project. Of course, it takes more than that, if not now. It's a simple arithmetic. Of course, it takes more time to run health systems for a growing group of elderly ones, as the nature of the matter requires more service. Of course, Mr. President, it costs more to run a health system for the least - increasing population of the population and the local tourist trades with the same government funds, related income, yes, because more people are involved in the combination - let's hope - with their taxes and with the surmudge of tourists also make a lot of money. This same chorus of government senators who do tails and mills here sing that there is always more and more money in the health system to keep this in mind so that their tone will not be so much war. They need to keep in mind that with more population and more tourists, jobs are created but also income. The projects cost money, and if it is the government's will to keep out a minimal transportation system, they have to ensure that they are funded. Mr. President. Let's talk only about our national hospital, about the Land Hospital of ◯ A university hospital, which in recent years has been given more and more work to do. The land hospital costs a lot of money, but the land hospital is also not in a position to just close departments, quit services, and send out projects like other health institutions in the country. The hospital is the final resort when other health institutions are forced to dismiss their projects because of their lack of understanding and lack of understanding by the government. Not only will the land hospital be given an assignment because of this position but the government will improve the development of projects that have been successfully introduced by independent members into a hospital as recently illustrated by the cancer community's search center, which is now to shut down and bring in other cancer programs. Yes, Mr. President, now at the Lands Hospital, who said to look for cancer but previously had brought a cervical examination to a land hospital that could not actually care for it, so he asked the station again to take up the assignment, at least first for a while. Now, the government has returned the necessary checkup, now to the health care department to attend, but the breast exam will go to a land hospital that would likely want her to take care of her for a while because there is no room in the Land Hospital, no room, no human power. Mr. President. I'd like to pray to the highest. A government to stop this vandalism, but because of moderation, I'm thinking of choosing more tactful words and praying to the highest degree. Governments to be moderate in their confusion, modest about how they intend to change their health functions without seeing who is going to perform the necessary service. Yes, a study of cancer is essential for service. Without such necessary services, all end in a third degree of health care. We need all our hands, that's perfectly clear. It does not mean that any assignment anywhere in the country at the same time that the hospital is funded, at the same time as pay contracts are not financed by the government, at the same time as funding is not being provided, the necessary care is not being guaranteed. The responsibility of the government, the government, is beyond the reach of overwhelming divisions due to efflux problems. The safety of patients is not guaranteed, and in that case, I can think of myself as fully as possible. Secretary of the budget that something is wrong with this system. Yeah, but it's the best. The minister of finance is responsible, and all he needs to do is come to realize that responsibility. Where are we now, Mr. President, why are old people spending 24 hours together in the hallway at the National Hospital Emergency Department? Yeah, because it can't get out. It's full of shit. We welcome, of course, the increase in government funds for the construction of nursing homes, but the nursing home will not be run without financial support. A nursing home that has already been built does not depend on business because of the lack of government funding. If they think they need 800,900 million. K. just to keep up with the current business--but what did the government do? What did she do between the 1st and the 2nd? ... abundant? Not a word, not a dollar, that didn't add 1K, Mr President, to the budget between 1 and 2. And so the situation in our national hospital, the Hospital, will not change. It's gonna get worse, there's going to be a flow jam. The government will rather keep people in the hallway at the emergency room, where it costs $250,000 a day. instead of securing funding for nursing homes, which cost a day between 30,000 and 40,000. Let us now consider this account. We'd rather pay $250,000. in the 24 hour period for sick people, more than 30,000,400,000 days for sick people. This, Mr. President, is, in my opinion, an enormously stupid provision for funds and must be made as it is likely to be necessary at the highest level. A government is required to re-educate financial training. There's a lot of trouble with the city's funds. They too are being treated badly when it is not guaranteed that people will receive necessary health care for months and years, so they cannot be active members of society. There, too, the government's not doing much good. Finally, I have to express deep concern about how Iceland's health insurance works to determine the costs of the services of independence from its members, the nursing homes in the country, the rehabilitation institutions, and other institutions that have urgent service in many parts of the country. Acute need for services because it leads to increased prosperity, leads to fewer individuals in disability, fewer in absolute inactivity, but may have a longer life, as is called in the new Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson's new report on the incidence of disability. It revealed that women are at a much higher risk of developing disability in the 50's. They have much less good years, as they say, because of musculoskeletal problems. It has the highest number of musculoskeletal problems that can be prevented by holding tightly behind institutions that provide rehabilitation services. These include such institutions as Iceland's Natural Medicine Association, which runs the Health Center in Whos making, as well as Smokelouse. These institutions have repeatedly complained about how difficult it is to deal with governments on the basis of the Kingdom's practical payments for their service to the entire public in the country. This needs attention, but unfortunately, governments do not seem to be doing what they should do. It must be done only with microgamy. I think we're all agreed that disability is the best group that's ever suffered from the wrongness of society. We've got to raise a basic pension. It's a pity how those who live in the disability business have to look at other groups who also have that shit, i.e. those at the minimum and unemployment benefits, which hopefully are only temporary, watch them be leaving pensioners in terms of money. The country is creating an environment for two countries in one country or possibly three, Mr. President, the nation that is extremely wealthy, has a lot of possessions, and often pays less taxes than paypayers in the form of capital taxes. Then there is a nation that has fine, family members, and the majority of people, and then the group that every month doesn't have to be needed. The majority, unfortunately, are the poorest, the latter, and are still to be left behind. Today and in a new year, there will still be desperate ones to wait for justice, for this will help to break the gap between them and the crowds I mentioned back then that have also been the worst, the unemployed, and the most lucrative of income. The gap between these groups, the desperate, and the incomeiest, will be about 90,000 bucks, the basic pension, and the total income of 90,000 dollars. Of course, it's not working at all, just not, and I encourage members of the council to consider whether they would not trust to raise their contributions to disability so that they approach at least. the groups that have it, too, at the worst in the community. No, Mr. President, this is not a dog-trading debate about budgeting like that. paritaprevir But Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's humor said yesterday, but an honest discussion of the health system status, the welfare status, the legal situation. Hv. A senator complaining yesterday that members of Congress planned to use his democratic rights and discuss the budget of the council have misunderstood the purpose of the council if they have intended to pass these laws through without discussion, for just so here is the case with a high - political matter. That's the law. That's exactly the politics you're supposed to be talking about at the council. This has to do with the everyday lives of all the people of the country. There is much more to discuss. I have not yet established a government policy that has led to a reduction in the fishing costs paid by the national project for its use in the common resource of the country. The cost of fishing, such as the government of the left green, independent party and forwarding party, does not depend on the cost of resource use from sea level. It is a ridiculous situation in Iceland that the country that owns the fish at sea will not get anything because seafood is caught. Instead, they have to pay their tax dollars for the extra cost of fishing. So we in the United States have suggested a rise in fishing fees, especially now when the tax that has fallen ill makes the fishing industry more profitable - because of the one who got sick. Mr. President. This is what I'd like to briefly come along with, for the representatives of the United States on the budget have taken a collective review of the situation and the position of the Union on this third budget of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the suggestions of the United States when it comes to expenses and receipts of state funds for 2020. I refer to his words as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u21	V.E.G. President. It's not surprising, though, when you listen to members of the United States in a public chair that showyness is different, that's a false tone. It seems completely inevitable when the Continents arrive here in a speaker's stand. I'm asking why. A senator would know how many employees were working on economic breakdown and how many are now after the collapse. The first thing that comes to mind when a case occurs in Hick last night is to put 210 million into the district attorney's office, investigating economic violations. It's virtual, which is beyond all limits. Of course, this case must be investigated, and it is in an investigation. There is no need to worry that this matter will not be investigated in the absence of such an arrangement. It's kind of out there with all the normal boundaries, all that showyness, huh? Senator. It's exactly the same thing with hunting costs, that there's no more show. Here and there, people have repeatedly claimed that funding is being reduced from the budget to the target. Of course, many can be deceived by this, why. Senator. But you don't fool other senators, do you? A senator, and he doesn't deceive a financial committee. If a political party wants to be trustworthy, at least one must give up. reduce something like that, when everyone's sliding their hairs here at a council over this nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u22	It's directed to the president. Senators to direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I have to say, I'm not sure those who are now listening at the General Channel will keep their minds on honesty when they think of the Independence Party. I'm not quite sure about that. Because of what? A senator spoke of poise and dishonesty, but I'm not sure that honesty is the word that comes to mind among those who think of the Independence Party at this time. I just have to pray. A senator to excuse that. But, hey. A senator spoke of a number of employees. Hv. A senator spoke of those who studied economic crime. I am delighted and obliged to report that the police themselves have appreciated it so that if the number of officers doing the research would increase to the pre - collapse rate in 2007, they would need to be increased by about 100. Hv. A senator is comparing the situation as it was 12 years ago, and this is exactly what I was talking about in my speech earlier, that the senators, whether in the left movement or in the Independence Party, are always comparing her health status as she was 12 years ago, in 2007, with her legal and legal status as she was in 2007. How many people were in 2007? How many tourists were in Iceland in 2007? How many immigrants were in 2007? Mr. President. The reality must be compared, now and in 2007. These numbers are to be multiplied according to the number of people, etc. in 2019 C.E. That does not mean comparing it as if it were two similar examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u24	V.E.G. President. I did not use the word dishonesty earlier. In my speech, I spoke of tactability and a false tone. There's a false tone in this, a very false tone. I'm just comparing those who were involved in economic analysis for collapses and those who are engaged in economic and economic crime studies today. He may be 10 times, and that's why he's showing off. There's no need to worry about the union because yesterday's case is not going to be investigated, that there will be a lack of money that would interfere with that investigation. It's showy asking for 210 million, that's what I'm saying. And it is also virtual to argue that hunting costs are being lowered. Most people sense it. Maybe not everyone can sense it, and the Conspiracy is going to count that there is a large enough group that doesn't know it. I'm just saying what I think of it. The union is completely out of place in this virtual and deity, which is another word for all of this. I think that if the United States is going to live for a long time and not think for a short period of time, it is important for the United States to change their language on this case and other issues, whether it is spoken of as a change in ideal micromanagement, where a 9 billion increase has been between years since 2017-20219, 9 billion years. There may be some view that there should be more to it, but the deception and showyness in these matters are also beyond all limits. I could go on with the elderly for a long time and all of this. There has never been doing so much in this regard as since that government was formed. Then you come here on a speech chair and say something else. This isn't an acceptable statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. As mentioned in my speech, which I don't know when. A senator listened to this, it's exactly 30 employees working for a local district attorney during an economic crime investigation. If the senator is claiming that they were three before a crash, three who examined this, it is quite clear that there was a purpose in this. Those who know that there is a reason why the office of the head of the tax and district attorney is starving. There are certain members of the community who benefit from an investigation of matters, that they cannot be examined sufficiently. [[Up front.]] There are individuals in this society who are making money when the taxes are bad because there are deadlines that are of enormous importance. [[Up front.]] When it comes to 150 million. K. The contribution to the district attorney is totally ambiguous to the statistics that the district attorney himself has said he needs. It was decided to add 45 million because of the three employees who are now being added because of money nonsense. I don't know why. A senator remembers that we have a so - called gray list because of the failure of the Icelandic government to carry out the necessary tasks, and that is why three members of the local district attorney need to be added only to the financial resources. That's exactly 45 million or 15 million. K. on each employee. That is why we add 150 million because the district attorney himself has said that it takes 10 million for them to keep their heads now. That was before the case at the Turny came up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u26	Why... sooner?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u27	The president insists on giving a speaker an empty speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u28	I'll inform the senator here in the side room why the matter arises at this point. [[Up front.]] I'll be happy to do that because time is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u29	Mr. President. I suppose I would move here a shorter form of speech, in fact, having connected it a bit with the changing arrangement that I would like to see from this discussion over the head. I cut it at the end of the day. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir talked about the discussion, that we were here, and that they were just not boring. I agree that they are not, but we need to have more senators in the room than has been in the last few hours. Here's one and two and three senators in the hall. These discussions are all recorded and sent out, but they could be done in a different system, I'm not going to go on how that could be. It would be so that there would be a lively discussion of more people and more communication than there would be an hour or 40 minutes, so to speak. But all of us are involved in the importance of these discussions, and they must be made known as a real discussion. The answers are great, but I'm asking for shorter and more talks. But okay. It has been a steady increase in the rate of government spending, over 150 billion in some recent years. It is very easy to explain some of it, with increasing crowds and various other developments being developed. There are additional projects that we're going through, I'm just bringing up the environment and the social security. There's also another factor involved, growing interest and a growing burden on community business, more sharing, and that's what I'm a socialist support. I am very pleased that the government today behaves exactly that way. The interwoven period we are going through is presented with a tilt of 0.3% of GDP that is not critical of because it is so low as it is explained by increased donations, as mentioned by me, to the joint projects of the people of the country and to the collective improvements of various kinds, although it is advertised in the form of more dresser reforms I also support than it seems to be necessary to produce longer than is often said. In times like this, it's time to increase public investments. There are different economic theories, but many people view this as a proper response to recession times. These investments are making extensive transport issues in all areas of transportation, increasing contributions to social reforms, and various infrastructures. It's got a lot of strength in the over 2 million tourists who come here and live in the country for so long. It is obvious that government spending will increase as a result of it. How positive it is that during the period covered by these funds, the subsidies will continue to be paid, around 70 billion! On the other hand, I have sometimes reasoned that some of this could be used in the building of useful investments, even simple investments, e.g. In climates, because they are already all there is to it, even though they are singles, investments in a number of cases. You might also think about pinching government profits for that purpose. I remind you of the amount in all of this. For the first time, the government's budget, income, and expenses have reached more than 1,000 billion. About a quarter of this amount, the largest part of the budget, goes to health care. There are many things that are done in the bill, but more is needed. Many speeches have been traced to health care centers, hospitals in the country, health care, mental - health programs, etc. and surely we need to look to the next legal means to see how this will be possible. Other basic services, such as education, social security, and transportation, are well over half of what is available, far more than 500 billion, so that at the end of the day, we have said a few hundred billion dollars to cover all public donations outside these infrastructures and basic services I have mentioned, including hundreds of bounds, contracts, and requests for new donations or increased donations. Then there will be the challenge of setting priorities, of having the problem done, because it is quite obvious that at this point there will be a number of different tasks. In these budgets, it seems to me that I've done quite well, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to make more money. There is still a need to increase the government's income in advance that in many parts of the world, it is possible to arrange, and finally with them, that there is a higher requirement for higher expeditation on such fundamental issues as environment and school, cultural status, so I mention something, and even a presentation of the Icelandic horse abroad as I saw a new discourse. I'm going to step aside to five fields of language that I'm either working on or that I feel particularly obliged to begin with innovation, research, and knowledge. It has been added in two recent years to less than 2 billion dollars, i.e. This is an increase of 15%. Well, I'm fine at work, but I'm sure I'm making even higher amounts of money because, in particular, innovation and basic research are key elements and a memory of the fact that this amount is actually higher than is said to be due to corporate and foreign funds. We need to look ahead and increase when there is a song, especially if the government's budget is taking a break because of an increase in prosperity. In this process, new food policy and innovation policy, both parishes that indicate that the community is changing and industrialized in Iceland is changing because in food policy there is an opportunity for energy - carrying industry in the field of food production and in the innovation policy, it is the means to do so. I'm here to talk, for example. about both heat and fish farming. I'd like to move on to a little bit. In these last two years, donations have increased by nearly 12 billion, which is 32%, i.e. Third, and only next year, the increase is 4 billion. In 2020, 10.5 billion are being maintained and started on 16.5 billion. It's over 30 billion in everything, and it's fine. There has been a steady increase in transport since 2010, but it has never been since the start of the present government. The key elements in these areas are this new transport strategy, which has had to be put on an enormous amount of work due to a natural review since the last approved assembly. It enters the so - called turning capital covenant, a turning point of release. There's a public transportation that's more and more emphasis than ever. Inside comes the flight that most comments, or most reviews, were all about. It requires reevaluation of policy and aerosolization of flight policies, such as everyone knows and strengthens domestic flights, i.e. Which turneth to the passengers, and payeth the gates, and as it were all the fields of the land that mattereth. There we arrived at Istavia, this government company that has developed ideas of flying at the Cheflavour Airport, about 20 million passengers in 2040 and 10 million passengers in the country at the same time. There I have stressed that we need to establish the endurance of the tourism service over Iceland's head. The same is true of it as fishing, or what else there is to sustain it, the Icelandic community with its 3,300,000 souls in the coming years or decades, cannot take on infinite numbers of passengers, either as switchers or passengers in the country, so we really need to consider what the travel service is to be a major part of Icelandic society, social, natural, and economic. As in the past, we are not going to become a industrial society. In this case, we play national airports, including... The spare airports themselves and then other airports that need to be in good condition, both those used most in the domestic flights and others who are used even. ... ina physicalfly. This has resulted in the talk of the so - called "reflight set " that has even been reported to be in the range of a hundred to 200 k. which, as most people know, would go down as a collection of thousands of dollars, if not tens of thousands of dollars. I don't think that there would be any criticism that this would be a burdensome charge for tourism because, while being added to the shipments cost thousands or tens of thousands of dollars, let's just say one dollar, it's not to weigh our travel services or transport companies or make us travel in Iceland large triggers. This is also true of rejections. It calls for a new operation, in the village, in the Sea of South Africa, and in Sandmaker's crew, so I'll give you an example. In all these areas, whether there are roads in the land, roads, and streets in the capital, the public transportation in general, the flights, or the harbors, the tasks must be carried out, making the most ambitious policy ever seen. I'm just gonna step into a travel service. It has something to do with what I mentioned earlier. We have decided to temporarily postpone some sort of entrance tax into the country, which was estimated to be 2◯3 billion a year. It also means that the price of a second flight price, which I mentioned, should not be postponed or fell away too. There must be money to speed up sustainable tourism in Iceland. It's not sustainable. There must be money to speed up the structure that enables us to accept 2.5-3.5 million, even larger numbers, passengers, or visitors to our country in the next few years. Today, the sins of their ancestors, namely, are in evidence. anything that went wrong while the number of tourists was not responding quickly enough, and what is to come is that the funds now going for tourism or building up for tourism are not quite enough. This has to do with what I mentioned before, i.e. the tolerability of the tourism service in Iceland We now have a self-sustaining references at the highest level. A travel minister arranged to be created so that we can gradually set limits that, of course, are not absolute but evolved as the infrastructure develops. This challenge must be carried out and policy is now being reimbursed for tourism, and it should be available in March 2020. In the environment. It adds 1.4 billion, i.e. If you take into account both prices and remunerations, so that over the years 2019,2020, there are 1,400 million added to the existing amount. Further increases are also in these budgets, as contributions are being made for infrastructure research and monitoring in regions related to Icelandic nature. Although I can still say that I want to do better, it is acceptable if we can promise ourselves that the constant growth of these proposals is one of the most urgent issues of our time. The levels must be raised as early as the next year of economics and then up until 2030 so that we can stand at the Paris convention and up to 2040 so that we can maintain the ambitious goal that Iceland will be free of carbon. This costs the gain of government, business, rural society, and public. Most of us can help, volunteer work, pay jobs, change our behavior in transportation, and new goals, as well as capital. When I give a new reference, I'm highlighting, for example... A system called prosperity - an economy that some call reinfor munitive material - is all we give up after use. The world's resources are limited, and it has long been shown that 50◯90% is recycling, or recycling, of all raw materials is a basis for mankind's being here for the next centuries. This is also related to less consumption. That's why I was talking about people showing changes in their behavior. I specifically mention the economy because there is more to profit than a dollar alone, we can only name social progress, public health, a better environment, and abbreviated workweek, since persistent economic growth contradicts the limited resources on earth. Also, we remind us that this ongoing growth is essentially an inner person of mankind, who also has limits on the number of people in that the earth has its limits, social or natural. All of this is in the light of the quality of life we want to share that is equal in the world, and I consider the budget to be a fine color in these environmental conditions. We've got a little bit of woodforestation that's gonna have to be higher. That's 70 million. K. extensions to tests, monitoring and nature agencies. That is where I stress the importance of a specific watch, both on a volcano and on a mountains crash, such as the Eagle Bay. There has been a lack of money, it is now being rescued by the law, but there is a need to increase over time, which is stable. I also mention green taxes, such as carbon taxes and plagiarism. They have criticized green taxes and that tax that will not be put on for now. Then I say that adaptation and rotation of climate change costs money. No matter how much we ponder over that matter, it costs a lot of money, and I always ask them, "Where does the money come from? I'm gonna leave that question open here. I'm going to have a word about foreign affairs. I think of a powerful foreign service as an urgent need for a small country like Iceland. I want to go further because I want to think of Iceland's fingerprints in international cooperation as good and then I mean, like our contribution to UNESCO, our contribution to the Council of Arctic, which I give very much emphasis on. We are in the prehuman existence for the past few years because it is accurately said that the changes in the Arctic area have to do with the future of climate and the future of mankind, although there are only 4 million inhabitants and 400 thousand of them. I also look at proposed executives in the Council of Europe at 2022/2023 very positive eyes, as though the cost of running in the end of more than 300 million. K. Linked to this is developing cooperation. There was a strong criticism of 300 million transports. K. The amount of money from the development team to work at the security area at Keflavour Airport, a project to be carried out or carried out, and should be carried out in accordance with the 2016 agreement before the time of the current government. Now it is clear that this step has been canceled by adding the 300 billion budget. K., which is then provided in the development team and continues to aim for our contribution to a total of 0.35% of the gross national income, and up to 0.7% in accordance with international goals. Of course, this is not possible because the development of Iceland's team has been less effective despite the prosperity of the country. There are many explanations that I'm not going to reenact, but what matters now is that there is a political will, hopefully, no matter what government is in order to achieve the global objectives of OECD put first. Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity at the end, not quite at the end of the world, though, to turn a few words into the P.R. because there is a need for a basic review of the public defense system. There's no extra funding. The review for the first occurrence of this system management, e.g. where the administration is saved, not the field management of the police in the province, but where the administration is saved, both for each party and under any department. This is about the arrangements for action and its independence. This has to do with increased emphasis on a specific core, both public security personnel and the rescue teams themselves in paid jobs to ease the stress of the multi-country volunteer work carried out by the rescue teams. increased travellers, too often and often. This is also relevant for improving national monitoring systems as well as increased nature testing. Then I refer both to things that are mineralized, to volcanic eruptions, to earthquakes, to things like nature, and to climate change. In the case of financial review in this relationship, the increase in the cost of public protection will simply be seen in most of its areas in due time. I encourage this review to be carried out as soon as possible and as the next budget, i.e. until the end of the year, work together with that review. Finally, Mr. President. The budget for the coming years is in my best place with the management convention, which, of course, matters and in good accordance with the demand for a recession in the economy. Nevertheless, there are several projects that need official support but are not available, and unfortunately, it is done by the Icelandic community, we see through history, that public or community support for community needs is necessary. If the slow recovery of our capitalistic economy in the next year comes true, millions of people, even though I do not go beyond that. Then I can give others an even more optimistic talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u30	Mr. President. We'll discuss the budget of 2020 at 2nd. I would like to agree with what has been presented in the case of several senators that this discussion is important. She's a long way from boring, but she could be much more alive. It is becoming wise to take a spin about whether we could try to keep the discussion so that talks would be shorter and more frequent, etc., so that there would be a little more convergence. There is always a small risk of putting on very long talks that will make the discussion more in the form of many monologues and a slight loss of discussion. I'm going to try to keep clear of the details of the issues that other members of the left movement have covered, and I'm just saying that I agree with them in what they have been doing. There are many important matters, but my discussion will turn on the basis of the budget and how we expect all of these to follow in the next year, and then at the end of the talk, I will speak very briefly over some smaller matters, let's say, which are not small, which I feel is either to speak more or is full of reason to mention. No one, Mr. President, is aware of the economic situation that the problem is that the situation is quite clear, and if you find it hard to believe what is said at a Senate Hall on the subject, you can look either into the community or beyond the rocks to realize that much has been done. That does not mean that we are living in some perfect society, and that does not mean that there is not a lot of work to be done, since we can do better. A recent increase in Icelandic credit ratings confirmed this and a recent report by the International Cash Fund, which may not be the best friend to everyone in Iceland. Still, visitors are seeing clearly what the situation is, though, that the focus of the World Bank has been more often on rock - hard economics, such as national product and the like, and in that town, factors such as those now spoken of as the economy. It may be comforting to know that now that we have started working on that standard, we may also try to apply it to how we look at the results of society's affairs and how we see it, what factors are involved, and where we can do better. As indicated by the opinion of the greater part of the budget panels, the award-presidents proposed in the budget bill were an increase of 2.5% in the next year, i.e. 2.6% of inflation, which is lower than in the original basis, all numbers change slightly and move slightly. This is really remarkable if we think that there is a downturn in society and although the landing has been spoken of as being soft, let's face it, Mr President, let's face it, we're talking about a down cycle of about 5% between years. In fact, it is one in 20 k. who were last year. That's a big change. This 5% swing is not that it disappears from the economy at 5%. Rather, it is the growth that was in the economy in the past not present and aims for us to land somewhere in the minus 0.2% in the interest of this year. Of course, it is easier than they were predicting in the middle of the year when the most pessimistic predictions were up to 2% in the economy this year, and of course it can be said that there may still be some uncertainty about where it really lands. But I think we can at least... we didn't have much hope for improvement in the one and a half months that remains of the year so much that we'll be in the blues plus this year. That's not the way it is. The approach taken in the budget bill is simply to accept that we are temporarily subtracted, so we decide to walk a little bit in the uncertainty bed as president of the night. The branch office spoke about it in a talk when he followed the majority of the opinion out of place. I think it's very important. We're talking about less than 10 billion that we're walking in the distance or 0.3% of land production. Nevertheless, the full - time ministry is by no means being allowed. It's still going, let's say, table by table, even if we don't go all the way. I'm not recommending, though, that people lose themselves and start spending much of their resources, or that they greatly increase expenses beyond what is present. But this approach, as far as I'm concerned, is correct. We're cutting down on society, and we can do that because society at this time is so strong that it can afford it. There are other positive factors in the environment that benefit us. This year has been relatively stable. The most common of which have been raised, and the height of control is reduced by 1.5% per year. All of this is important. The currency store is unusually strong, it stands for about 800 billion, and the state's debt is, I don't know if it's to be called to historical minimum, but it's got the lowest that ever existed, and it's certainly the lowest that has ever been since collapse. We now stand that the total debt of state funds will be 26.7% of GDP according to the bill and that it will probably decrease by 70 or 72 billion in the year, and the debt of the state's debt relative to the statute will be somewhere in the range of 22%. You can simply ask, especially in view of the fact that we want to maintain some kind of bond market in Iceland, whether it makes sense to do much less than that. And speaking of how to turn things, in this light, it may be wise to examine seriously what we are working on to form in a financial and business committee, the National Fund bill. Perhaps there is another assignment that might be wise to act on right now. Of course, there are uncertainty factors in this bill and uncertainty when we look into the next year. There are factors, indeed, that we can control, largely, extremely small, in our community, in uncertainty factors such as air traffic and tourism that we do not know exactly how to convert next year. Like what? Senators have no doubt heard of them for a new airline to take in, I suppose they're right to say, over the next few weeks, and hopefully it's going well. If you're doing well, you'll have a positive effect. The next year there is still a forecast of a failure of hairy hair. Well, then, good luck is bad news for the economy, but again, there's things we can't handle. All we can do about it is try to respond. Then international prospects are disastrous. We don't know how the British, our big business nation, is playing with Baltrexit today. We don't know what future choices they make, and this causes a measure of uncertainty in Iceland to end our big business nation. We really don't know how we play business next year in America and China. There is another uncertainty factor that we can have very little impact on. There are plenty of other things, but I'm not going to go down to the tax and payment in detail unless, in that respect, I think it is proper to mention that the first three steps in the tax system with a new step for the lowest salary, the lower steps for the lowest wage, are very reasonable. Like what? Councilmen are aware of this procedure as part of the lifetime contracts, and a fine example of how good people can achieve good landings when they simply work hard to talk and find landings. There is one thing that causes certain disappointments in terms of taxes and fees next year, and it's a matter of sentencing, we should not now call this uncertainty about the tax process. I believe that there is a very important green operation here to ensure that we as a community are using the pressures we can get people to sort more out, make better use of the valuables, and to get out of the trap we are in and I hope we can get it started right next year. Then to the matters I would like to mention specifically. There are matters that I know stand out a little because of knowing that it's not because of a lack of emotion. It's because of other factors. As mentioned in the Treaty, during this ideal period the management of nurses is to be adjusted. That work is on the move. It was decided in the budget of this year to add 276 million, I can't exactly remember the figures, Mr. President, something at this point, in the network. That amount, however, has not been used for the remaining year, including the annual amount. because negotiations are not reached. It is important that this amount of money remain on the budget and will continue to be used for these households. But there's not all the work done. This journey must continue as we continue to make progress, as is true of the changes in the majority of things, the emphasis on day - to - day selection, and the importance of day - to - day choice. In effect, this results in continuing to expand our ministry with older people at home, strengthening that foundation. Day - to - day training is just a major part of making this possible. Thus, in the long run, we will likely reduce the need for nurses who are then the last resort when house service arrangements are no longer working. I am disappointed that we have not yet kept the contract in order to make a stay in the countryside. I would've wanted us there by now. On the other hand, I understand it quite well, as many people did. Councilmen have established that this may be part of some perspective. But it is important, I believe, that we face the fact that rural society has some of the cost of tourism, so it is not unusual for them to make money back. Of course, there are management and services and such activities in their rural communities that they and their inhabitants make a lot of money, but I feel that we need to continue in this course to fulfill that promise. I am pleased with what is shown in the changes in the more part of the budget for the State's Insurance Institute, which is defined by recycling of the home runoffs. This is very important, because this is actually the ultimate agreement by the government that we are serious about recalculate these impairments, and we are going to calculate them correctly, and we are going to plan for those institutions who are going to do this work for us enough money to cope with it. It contains a very clear and important message from the government. I'm very glad, and I think there's reason to mention it, despite that. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned it earlier, that 300 million. K. to develop cooperation is returned, as may be said. Hv. Congress officials remember a discussion on the financial program that contained this amount. How important it is that we stay on the line that contributions to development work do not diminish, and these 300 million are an important part of this process. Of course, as I can hear why. Senators in the hall, we could do better, and we should do better, and that's our policy, and I'm celebrating these terms, let's say. [[...low by...millions.]] It is unfortunate that the construction of the land hospital will slow down, but it is not the government's own decision, in effect, that projects will not go as fast as we might wish. It is important to note that this is a very important assignment, and in spite of all, there are for the next year's work 10 to12 billion, if I recall correctly. Again, though, it is said from memory, and some amount may be calculated. I'm not gonna have any more of those words, Mr. President. However, I reiterate what I said at the beginning of my talk that I have found this discussion interesting, it is important, but of course it might be more vivid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u31	Mr. President. Few if anything gives a clearer testimony on government policy than the budget of each year. It actually reveals the manuscript to the community. We can all agree on the good changes that have taken place in our society in the last few decades, the ideal status of the State Fund, despite everything, and that Iceland is among the top countries in many areas. However, in 100 years, I will not tire out by the talk from poverty to wealth. They have been giving this talk very often here in the Assembly Hall, and it says only half of the story. You see, the average of all the people is the people, but a very different picture is seen when individual groups, certain income groups, do not refer to each individual's status. When that picture is viewed, we first begin to discern. While right men want to use taxes to earn money for all the most necessary government services they want to reduce, left men want to earn money to promote public service and increase the welfare of the public but also use the tax system to increase the equation in the community. While the Independence Party wants to salve a large industry and want to collect as little money for the use of our common resources, political parties from the center to the left want to make fair money for such uses, and real left groups want to use the tax system to level the terms. Now it may be that each member of the governments has a conflicting view of these issues in its policies. V.E.G. In fact, the prime minister has repeatedly stated that governments need to make compromises, but it takes a great deal of effort to avoid realizing that as the highest number of viewpoints are clearly understood at first, the greater the media needs to be. But all the groups together eventually share responsibility for the final outcome, in this case the position of quietness, the inadequacy, and the failure to deal with major community issues. Therefore, all the beautiful words, all in articles, all of the articles on the websites of the individual categories, that fall in a different direction from what will be approved in the budget not be worth the paper. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son here, representative of the left green, revolved around slight changes, abnormalities, but not the fundamental changes we need in order to match the terms. Therefore, as in the past, the union will provide adjustments and will point out ways to income gains while they are on the way. These suggestions are far from the picture we would like to see in our community. Although we contribute to 20 billion, we also offer ways to earn money without becoming burdensome to all normal people in the country. Rather, it includes the fishing fees that the government has allowed to reduce so that they no longer cover the services of the industry themselves, of oversight, of research, and of oversight. Then we want to place a wealth tax on all the richest people and protect people's homes. And we don't want 90% of the people paying no capital income taxes, and we want the 10% of them who have enough between their hands and finance from day to day to pay a higher tax. However, we also feel that it is necessary, especially in the light of Kosch and the hour's reviews, to propose a change in the budget to strengthen the district attorney and the tax investigator so that the case and other corruptions can be handled and the results can be revealed. I can see why. paritaprevir Hjálmar's Hafliðason shakes his head, but he may come up and explain why we shouldn't be investigating. [[Up front.]] I believe our colleagues of all categories, with any exception, will accept this. Mr. President. Iceland and I face an extremely complex challenge. On the one hand, we need to protect and improve our well - being, but we also have the courage to face the future and invest in it. First, the quality is simply too different, and we cannot look at it passively. There are too many who live under circumstances that are not open to anyone who is as rich as a nation. Many social groups find it difficult to make ends meet, to have excessive housing security, and even to refuse medical care. It almost tells itself that these people don't have the opportunity to enjoy art, culture, sports, go out to dinner, which is a self - righteous thing in life today, and have nothing to do with luxury. In the end, the greatest tragedy for thousands of children is that they live under unannounced circumstances and may even miss out on their opportunities to be strong and to live in the best interests of adult life. Besides how unnecessary and cruel this is, it is also sadly shortsighted. For example, when the consequences of lack later appear in life, the cost of saving in the well - being of the world is quick to turn to a very high price for the State. That is why the battle against an unswerving key element is to ensure a powerful, good, peaceful society, and I am disappointed that some of the groups in the government have disappeared from their goal. Yet, there is more to the vision. Second, our conduct needs to be adjusted because of unprincipled bad association about the earth and perhaps even overindulging in it. Sadly, though, it is not possible to mean that the government is taking matters particularly seriously. It has to be acknowledged that climate has a larger role than that of many times before it must be done much better. Good will and good promise. The prime minister is not sufficient to consider inactivity. We need even. setting high goals, but we need to legalize them as we know each other. In Britain, Sweden and New Zealand, and the budget needs to be in all areas and in all committees to reflect the tribunal. There's a rich one, Mr. President, a climate emergency. So we suggest an additional 4 billion change in action against disaster. Third, there is perfect optimism in the response to the vast changes in society that are becoming involved in the digital technological revolution. The number of jobs will be reduced, other changes. Somebody's gonna be real. But our professional status will change. We need to become accustomed to greater mobility, develop a habitual education, and cultivate such qualities as good communication skills, good values, creative forces, and initiatives. It is not only necessary to maintain competitiveness in complex international competition but also to deal with the demographic changes that are taking place in our society, where more and more people are older and more, while fewer workers have to support the valuable creation. This is one of the most obvious reasons why we have to attack the education system. But do we see this grand effort reflected in financial matters? No, not really. For example, financial contributions to the university rather than to the colleges are being made as a result of an absolute decrease in education and research funds. It is enough to mention the University of High Schools in Breiðholti, the University of Education in Akureyri, the Egls, the Lake Saturday, the School of Education in East England, and the Akureyri. It is a real threat to development, to research fund, and to continue. Of course, the government has a small problem, for during an unprecedented economic growth, she did not take care to balance the situation in society or to earn money to save for years. While there is a more complex task on a cool economy, the United States has suggested ways to earn these incomes, ways that left greens have taken along with us, and why they are not presented would be fascinating. We are, in spite of all the 11th richest country in the world, and we cannot allow the weakest of society to produce a cooling economy. The wealthiest 1% of the population had more pure property than 80% of the population and made more than one third of the budgets created last year. That is why tax changes in this situation are not only wise but necessary. While normal people should not have to pay high capital taxes, and if there is no legal tax or gross tax from their housing, it is a complete mystery to me why in the vast government, at least for the sake of the government. part of the government, it's not natural for the richest to give more attention to society. They are people who live almost exclusively on capital income, on money that makes more money, on wealth that makes possible travel between countries, and profit by the way they walk, and then pays less taxes than those who labor from their wages. These people don't even pay for the local community, but they still demand a bottle of cake on their streets and space for their children at the local school. The direction left green is thought - provoking. Also, I'm amazed that in the past ten years, a large factory that has paid 100 billion for its profit, which is twice as much as they have paid for access to a limited resource, cannot do more to the community. Such information is the same business that has gained about 400 billion in this same number of years. That's almost half the budget we're talking about here. These companies, and the very few persons they have, are to pay about 5 billion in hunting fees for the use of Iceland's most valuable resource, and that's about 5 billion. The same as it takes the State to keep an eye on this article. One contractor even made the same profits last year that the entire nation receives incursion next year. Mr. President. With a recession in the economy, much more is needed than ever, that society's social infrastructure and mind are balanced. Sadly, this financial bill does not guarantee economic or social stability. We in the United States have repeatedly noted that by not earning a very practical basis, as has been the last seven to eight years, even yielding to income institutions, we are likely to become more vulnerable to health care, education, law enforcement, research, innovation, etc. It's happening, and we're seeing it very clearly, and there's numbers on it, and it doesn't mean that we can't argue about it. Various institutions are developing a crisis. Official workers are also required to take this swing, as they are calculated less compensation than paid people on the public market. If that's to be changed, it's more likely to be the case with these budgets than we are now, if this is the case, for the first time, to give back the 2013 General Bank. So nurses, teachers, social workers, and others are not to be paid the fair things others have received. Nor does the government seem to have no interest in shortening people's week of work, even though it is at its highest level. Prime Ministers and other members of Parliament, talking rather loudly about the economy, show a lack of cooperation in collective agreements. In a downturn, it is more important than ever to get involved with those who are falling under pressure and have hardly a knife or a spoon and react so that these people too can live a decent life. In the United States, we've always talked about cutting down bills, reducing taxes to groups with low income and average income through the tax system. We can do so by means of a gradual system, but we can also do this through child support and child support. Therefore, we offer suggestions in that direction. On the other hand, we would like to raise our taxes to those of the best, making sure that they gain a reasonable amount of money from the resource, so I now say it once more. We have also provided a bill that helps to facilitate smaller companies and provide an economic environment for SMEs that are intelligent and innovations. This enterprise depends on a large proportion of GDP, but they are usually not cared for in this house. Here people are more interested in protecting and shoveling under the big corporations that make us so dangerous when they either fall or behave in an improper way. Mr. President. It's a third of the government's budget, and if not the last, then the next, the last. So she has put the curve and shows the cards, and the situation is simply this: There is a position. It is a continuing economic government on the grounds of the Independence Party. Of course, he can work well and win this battle within the government, but left green has to explain why they have dropped from further tax laws to the equation. Instead of looking up on systems, funding, which strengthen social infrastructures, we support hard - working ordinary people, small companies, instead of preparing for the future, strengthening education, innovation, and science, we look forward to chaos and old - fashioned politics and perhaps even more severe economic degradation. Mr. President. Finally: This financial bill of the government's left green, independent party and forwarding party reveals their inadequacies or lack of willingness to deal with inequities and lack a vision of the future altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u32	Mr. President. It's a reflection of the prefect of the Continent. And to be constantly angry in a pita. I came up here, I don't know if I'm supposed to say something about myself because the director of the United States was putting words in my mouth and making myself feel like I didn't want to look at this case. When he took a brief material discussion about today's events - yes, I shook his head out in the hall because I wondered at the speech of the chairman of the United States, that's absolutely true. But he doesn't stand in a pit and make me believe, so I'm clear. They're hitting some political cones because of today's news. I don't like this from the United States Chairman. I'm going to expect more than that. We're discussing budget 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u33	Mr. President. I'm less angry than I am, but I may not be able to help it, even though I was created with a rather cruel expression and did not have the gentle and joyful look that usually identifies the candidates of the forward party. But I dismiss the fact that there is some outward show. There is a diplomat here to talk about what he would like to do. On the other hand, I call putting out a policy plan, campaigning, talking to the policy list, getting into the government, and doing nothing about it. It's showy, huh? A senator, and the reason I mentioned why. A senator earlier. He's wrong that I put words in his mouth. I didn't. I said, "This is where it shakes. " paritaprevir The Hjálmar's head is Hafliðason's Bogi. I guess I don't like it. I apologize if it has just been a coincidence that he shook my head over my speech, 20 minutes of speech, the exuberance of the fraction of a second that I made a suggestion that we consider a very serious charge against a very large company that must be both the legal issue of the company and the absolute fairness of the nation that gives it much of its resources. Or what does it want? A senator do? He won't look into it? Is it not easy to secure enough money? I know that Mr. President has made this statement before, and he doesn't agree. Well, then, I hope they're two guys at the Senate Hall about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u34	Mr. President. Hv. Einarsson When I shook his head over his speech, the director of the United States said, because I was wondering why he and his party looked at me, and then I was showing up in the hall, I didn't want to look at this matter. That's what he said in a punk. We can only read it together tonight when the talks are published. That's what he said. But I will accept his apology very gently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u35	Mr. President. I'll reiterate the apology if it's been a mere coincidence that he shook his head on that same fraction of a second. I admit I don't know the proper basics in sign language, but I do know two, when you get down and shake your head. [[Up front.]] Actualness, huh? A senator, when a person has the potential to prove that he is going to fulfill the words he has left behind. The government situation has no chance of fulfilling all its proposed measures except that a majority of the U.S. Congress will accept the change. I hope it's done tomorrow or Friday. However, outward show is made clear in the behavior of political parties that draw out election brochures, give talks, write articles, publish websites with everything they're going to do if they just become elected and then do nothing when they're in Congress - like all political parties, or whatever. Senator. [[Like the Conspiracy...]] It is now so strong that most people do not remember that the forward squad is in this government. That is why I may have focused primarily on talking about the conflict between the Independence Party and the Left Green. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u36	The president asks why. Senators speaking in a chair, not in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u37	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss budgets by 2020 and I'll be here Lady in a pen, though I have good endurance. I'm not going to go into a lot of detail about the budget bill, but I'd like to get to health care first. Health concerns have long - term underdeveloped, and there is no change in the budget that is now being discussed by 2020. In this regard, I would like to mention the tremendous advances in technology and science that have taken decades to deal with diseases, both physically and spiritually. It is, of course, accompanied by a request for more capital. In addition, the nation is getting old, of course, very joyful, which requires further health care for that age group as well. When we face this situation, the government, or my opinion, must shape a policy to meet that reality. Of course, it is easier to talk than to get to the point than the facts call it. It has to be said, as it is, that when technology and science have managed to deal with so many health, health, health, cures, that it stops at funding, and that it is out of control. Since there is no limit to money, there is a need to seek solutions, shape policies that can be followed. Today, most people, if not all, agree that prevention and control will save on the health system, save money, i.e. If people live a wholesome life, are conscious of their own body and soul, and can take responsibility for preventing certain life - styles from happening, and for others to become manifest. But as someone says, making money requires money. Why do I say that? Yes, more protection costs money, and more money is needed to save in the health - care system. That is my firm faith and opinion. Prevention is classified into several categories; first phase, second grade and third prophylaxis; and so on. The first phase of prophylaxis is long - term targets, such as early intervention, and thus prophylaxis is in the first phase of the first meaning of prevention from cradle to grave. There have been progresses in these matters, and much has been done in schools and health - care programs as far as health care is concerned, but I believe they could do much better to save for health care. Second degree prophylaxis is e.g. physical therapy and other factors that teach people to help themselves and learn how to cope with their maladies and to be responsible for their consequences, such as backpatients or whatever else people may have to deal with, in some cases, that can be cured but not in others. But after action, physical therapy, replacements, and so forth, you learn to live with the reality of what they are in, and you can do more to help yourself. Abbreviated list or even no waiting lists is also a multi-target prevention, both physically and economic, for the system and for individuals. It is a prevention for families and victims of alcoholics to witness that the alcoholic or the addict is treated and changes in lifestyle. Then those who have witnessed the person are ruining their lives that the addict is changing his life, that life is taking a different form, and that he becomes a part of his life by getting treated. But some people need more than one treatment, and some more than two and more than three to master this addiction that I have so often talked about here in a pent, writing articles and fighting against. That's why I'm also talking about a waiting list because treatments in the alcohol and drug sector are always increasing. We've usually talked about the waiting list at Vg, because it's the most powerful or the most extensive treatment for the patient population. There are the priorities that are taking place for the first time, and those who are deadly ill, while those who are coming to second, third or fourth times, have to wait longer, and live so often and often do not wait, and it is very sad. So I've said that it would save a lot of money to put more money on treatments and on a short wait list to help people not just be, as they sometimes say, start a life without health, or even lose their lives. Health services in the country have a rather poor share in the budget bill, and this is by no means a good thing. However, health care has been well established, but the hospitals in the region are abject. In many hospitals, where there is room to be used for physical training or other services that can be served in the country, and often people who need such service feel that it is a great help to get out of the country. I know it myself from my hometown. But enough health care for now. I'm just gonna come into the fishing business, they've been given a lot of publicity on the budget bill. I have to say, even if I'm in a position of government, I don't think the debate on the resource costs is quite fair. It's the fact that the model we're calling large production can carry this resource expenditure and possibly higher, although I can't say anything about it because I'm not exactly in the books there, but smaller productions, small and medium-sized productions, many of them are very difficult to run their companies out of resources and as well as on carbon costs and extra pay. This is not often mentioned in the resource spending discussion, but it is in my mind that the greeting system is designed to cover resource costs. It's no more nasty system than that. I remember a time when the fishing route was more and less in the arms of the state. At that time, placards were often used to sustain the structure. Who had to pay them for placards? It was the people of the country. We don't want the kind of system that was really no system, either - I don't really know what to say. It is not in many lands that the way to sea is not a government scholarship. He is a state scholarship in Norway and other countries. This isn't the state run, but it's a system that is sustainable enough to cover resource costs. I think this needs to be done when, as some say, the sum of resources is raised to pay the other and that in the interiors of the country, they're now so low that they're hardly under research and other necessary items in the marine soil. Resource expenditure laws were modified last year and are offline. In my opinion, they're as decent as possible today. Then, too, it is this diverse group of outlaws, from a project that may have 10 tons up to a factory with 10,000 tons or more of it. It is quite different how these expenditures can carry these costs, and it is part of the failure of the total compression in this article, so it is very difficult for smaller productions and productions that do not contain fish productions to cover these costs. There's more fees in there, as I spoke of earlier. Similarly, I have often said that the resource costs, because the fishing groups are so diverse, can add compression. And what has added to the compression over the past few years is the debate here at the council of us politicians, many of us, talking this system down, that there's something else that needs to be done, and that this has to be approached somehow differently. Then they reason with them who are in debt that it is best to get rid of it right away because they do not jump into it. It's part of this compression. Here at the spring council, or summer council, an agreement was adopted to be adopted by the person listed here, called the definition of resources, and was directed to the environmental minister involved in this or his Ministry to define resources. It's about specifying what's a resource and what's not a resource and what resources can pay for the nation's resources and who can't. This was a very careful proposal, which had often been recommended earlier, for four, five times in the past, in the same number of councils that had not been established until this summer. I'm very pleased with it, and I recommended another suggestion, which actually follows this proposal, which is on the basis of resource costs, how it will be implemented. That proposal was directed to the secretary of finance and is on the committee, and hopefully it too will get a walk. It is natural, as has often been said, more resources than the sea resources heard under the Icelandic state and only fair enough that the resources that can carry the resource costs pay it to the nation. Only on tax issues. In fact, in the administrations, a tax decline has been reported by adding one tax step. Is that something remarkable, since the Independence Party is in the government and has talked about simplifying the tax system? They have here made it clear why they agreed to accept this tax reduction, to add steps, that it is also part of the Life Treaty and so on, and the fact that this government is combined, politically. All right. This is a tax reduction that is good for those with the lowest wage, and it is all you can do to rejoice in. We in my category speak for simple tax systems, and we speak for a work-wieldy tax system that surely promotes those who want to earn their money and stand in their homes as young people do, to cover their heads, to build up a family, or whatever it is they do. This encourages the person to work and to get more money than at the same time be a good member of society. Since I was a young man and started to work, I've often talked about this, how much would you remember if your salary put more on the payroll instead of paying taxes and other fees that today are enormously high and always increase. This is something we must unwind, and it is also a matter of the individual's independence in saving themselves and other aspects of it. Everybody, or everyone I know, wants to pay taxes, but they also need to be reasonable and work-wieldy, as I said before. House warming in cold areas and the equal house - to - house expenses are something that has been handled frequently and that has often been discussed here during the council. Something has been done, but for some reason it has not worked. Somehow, one hand has come in the pocket and taken the money back if a discount has been given. This is one of the issues that have been discussed so much, and it complains so much that it will become like a noise in the ears of many, but it is a very serious matter of equalizing the conditions of the country. There are between 9% and 10% of the population who are eligible to pay enormously high house - to - house expenses. I read today for information, an answer from the travel, industrial, and innovation to the senator - I asked here in the fall of various questions about these matters. That's where we even came from. so that the public would have difficulty giving a discount or even could not. The energy agency is, for example, an energy agency. in a competitive market, and the government cannot intervene. A few years ago, the approval of a two - pack energy pack changed. It would be too long to go back to review it all up, so I'd probably be talking about a pack of energy, too, if I went to that. I think he's had quite a conversation here, but I can see that the Senate world is very excited that I'll pick it up again. But I'm going to keep it. This is something we have to deal with. I've been calling today for information about how it's been standing here at the council and what would have been done and what can be done thereafter. I will try to make a suggestion, or even a bill, to continue working on this case. We're not allowed to discriminate against people. All these things are man's work, this expense, and therefore it must be fixed. Because I was talking about health issues earlier, there will be a nursing home and service for the elderly, of course, in there, as I came in. As a member of the Central Party, we have a suggestion made in a committee article. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children crossed last night. The suggestion is that there is a flow issue in the hospital, which would release, as it were, and step out of extra services and additions to nurses. I was together with others at Hotel Air Routes, as they were before, and I can't remember what they are called today, at a conference on health - care institutions, etc., from which the government buys services. It was very interesting to attend that meeting or that council because the problem is big and, in fact, it needs to be completely supervened. There is no way that any institutions that provide this medical service can provide the required services, I'll let me say, communication problems with Iceland's Medical Insurance and even the Ministry of Health while they're on their way. This meeting revealed something to me. It is unable and must be taken. Governments need to work out, as in other things, a clear policy and solve the problem. It's just that there's nothing more complicated than that in my head. It's just learning. Last year, we talked a lot about what children and youths can read and how they could be corrected, putting it in a better place. I participated in that discussion and sought information on how other countries were involved, which countries were doing better than us, and who were in places similar to where they might be doing worse. That was a very simple conclusion. The countries where learning results are better, e.g. Read-its and so forth, countries that better prepare the teachers class than we do here, which provide more teaching support. V.E.G. A minister of education has taken steps in that direction, but better if possible. We who want all the best for our children, that's what we all want to do. We all have to let our knees follow our belly on this project, there's no better time than right away to do it. The need for this has increased by industry and engineering. We'll be talking about it, and the government and the Ministry of Education have been talking about a big challenge in this regard. But then you hear from schools like high schools, and even from high school, that industry and engineering don't get as high a place inside it as it takes to further this education, and I'm sorry. There's no traders. There's a lot of structure around the country that calls for industrialists, and then we need to develop this education. As a result, industrial work is well paid, and other types of education can be compared, and there is no reason to avoid becoming an industrialist because the pay is poor, not at all. And then industrial education is often a means of further study, if one chooses to do so. It is often said that parents and guardians can do much better or that they should encourage their children to engage in trade and study, and I agree perfectly with that. This has somehow developed, so young people go to the book study further. We had a very clear policy in this for the last election in my category and talked about the need for special education from government to government. We stand totally in that way to further this article of education, for in the future there will continue to be more hands to do these things, since the number of people is always increasing. V.E.G. President. I've only put a tip on what I was thinking about discussing in this speech, came here into the hole a bit suddenly. I thought I was back at the speaker's file, but when I needed to fill in, I didn't quite prepare my speech. But okay, I'm not complaining about it. I'd like to mention, because I was referring to the opinion of the Committee 2 of the budget, which is why. Birgir Þógir Þórarinsson recommended yesterday, which is in my opinion of a very careful committee. It presents the changes made by the Central Party to the budget bill and is fully funded. It discusses mental - health issues, advice management, and other things that I do not intend to list today. Hv. A member of the council I mentioned earlier made this clear yesterday, and I believe that only members of other classes will be very interested in learning about these suggestions and hopefully accept them when they are brought up. I was rather surprised to see that the tax has been taken out, or that at least it has been postponed. It was a tax that, like more fees have been paid in the past few years, totally incomprehensible to me. We should seek other advice. There may be other discussions, but we should seek other advice than waste disposal. I said in a speech in the fall that growling garbage is like sweeping the trash under the carpet. There's been a lot of technology in the incineration of garbage, and we're supposed to consider, since my platoon member has been working on it. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça, as measured by a synopsis proposal for the construction of garbage combustion, as foreshadowed by the neighboring countries, Scandinavia, Sweden. They also need to be classed at the same time. We need to do much better in the category of garbage. That's not in enough trouble at all. We're exporting garbage with ships. It's like taking the trash to the trash can from the neighbors. There's nothing different in my mind. There's no waste of it. That's a lost operation. We need to be responsible for our own garbage and then place it in a way that brings honor to all. We need to show greater respect for nature in this regard. We're talking a lot about global warming, and we're talking about plastic in the ocean, and we're talking about garbage and pollution everywhere, which is a fact. We can do much better in this regard. Then we're supposed to start in the park at home with ourselves. We Icelanders are in a lot of trouble, and we need to handle this responsibility, not by sweeping the trash under the rug, as if the cost of waste was involved, or by sailing it to other countries, which are like throwing the trash in the park with neighbors. We are to do this properly in the interest of nature and of all of us in the foregrounds. V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna have this much further now. This discussion has been very good. I have no complaint that men have spoken here for an hour, as has been offered to members of the budget board. It's just like one good show on TV, after show, they're often for an hour. They have been varyingly amusing, these factors here in the pit, but still fascinating to listen. I'm gonna make this a good one for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u38	A respectable president. I had little desire to talk about the budget, and that made me very happy when I was. A senator mentioned the energy package case. I was really happy about it. I love talking to you about what you're talking about. A senator who can easily say that I think of him as the best member of the Central Party. That's why I wanted to ask him about the connection between them. Why doesn't the Central Party expect sea cables to change their proposals to the budget? Where's the cable that was supposed to come as soon as we approved the energy package? So another question: Has energy prices in Iceland become the same as in Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter, and for the compliment of being, I heard, the hottest member of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u40	Best...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u41	Best? [[Up front.]] I don't think I'm totally up to it, but I'm at least. Most of three inches count. I have to tell you, if you think of a pack of energy and a sea cable, we were never talking about an energy cable in the case about a pack of three, but we talked about slices, samurai pieces, and that the three energy packets could be, and that's one of the pieces of energy package four would come into the table. In this context, we talked about a cable. I hope this explains the matter to the senator, even though he is fully aware of it and is asking about something that he completely knows the answer to himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u42	A respectable president. No, I didn't. That's why I asked. The answer surprised me a little bit. I thank you very much for the answer, and again, that I mean it from the bottom of my heart. Every time I ask why. A senator gives me honest answers. He is modest, as was shown in his speech, and that is why I think he is exactly the best member of the Central Party, the best, and I really mean it. There is no sarcasm behind it or anything like that. I always like to ask. A senator because, as I say, I get good, honest answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his compliments. I'm just saying, like someone said, "I'm like a horn, I'm moved by this compliment." I accept it, as the senator said, that I am mild - tempered and demeaning, didn't I? I planned when I came into the council to be at least one. Amateur, as much as God gave me to stay. I also signed my word of honor when I arrived at a council a few years ago and enjoyed seeing them write, I was so shaking when I signed, it was so soon. Perhaps my modesty is in my blood, so I can do nothing about it, but it's good to hear it. I'm not gonna have any more words about this than thank you for the warm words to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u44	Mr. President. I intend to use my time to discuss health matters primarily. It is now the day two in the discussion of these matters, and there is not much that has not been mentioned more than once and more than twice, so I don't find my time and others here particularly useful in reviewing the budget bill for a team and showing criticism or commendation if so. My health is mindful of me and others, and I would like to consider it in that context. The fact is, there is a considerable increase in health care, and this has been the case with the three financial laws proposed by the government of the left - green, independent group, and the forwarding process. That's about 34 billion increases from the budget of this government in 2017, if I'm correct, and we're talking about 15% plus/minus, this is 245 billion now, and then the extra part is about to be offered almost 30 billion, 29 billion. It's a lot of money, and it's a big increase. Yet, fires burn almost everywhere in the system. You can take it easy and say, "That's just the way it is. There is never enough work to be done. In some respects it may be true, it is never well done. But it is possible to do better. It is simply possible to make better use of the money that is being done in our health system than has been done in the past by this government and better than are promised in these financial laws. The quality and safety of the service and interests of the people must be in the foregrounds and must simply work together the Word of Governments and Decisions, including decisions on how to use money. It's a priority that needs to be examined and criticized, and I mean it for good. We need to give financial support to where the need is truly the most and to stop. to transfer an assignment to the state from independent active specialists in many parts of the system, to discontinue missions without providing an analysis of these advantages, i.e. whether this is a change in the quality of services, security, and capital use. Moving a project to the state or state-created institutions without having it, does not just help users in the ministry, but simply dissuades stately institutions, as I think the cases have shown, e.g. The conditions of the Land Hospital now exist. This is not the only reason for burning fires, but it is clearly one of them and certainly not helping. I'd like to go back a few months to the time when the International Health Conference was adopted to 2030. A declared goal of the modeling of this policy was to put down lines that can withstand the passing of time. Within the framework of policy development, the minister can present his political vision. This does not sound bad, but the basic reason for setting lines on a course that is to be lived a long time and that must be settled is wide consultation. While working in this direction, many were observed, but many were kept out in the cold. I'm just going to go back to a discussion about the bill how some stakeholders were ignored in that process, including Organization for welfare services. It is an enterprise that is not a government company, operates in the field of health according to a service contract or other related pay to the state. It's a couple of dozens of companies, partnerships, autodiversaries. In his review of the course of health care, this organization described the lack of consultation that was in control of policy development. The policy and discussion were made up of institutions and the components of the health system that were involved in its initial phases. There was a clear line in which there was a very short discussion of specific groups of subjects and then other factors, such as the management form, which is the direct result of the failure to consult best acquainted with members of this type of service or type of management. It was spring. Under these criticisms by the Health Services Association, the National Institutes of Health, the Icelandic Medical Association, the NYC, etc. What these vast numbers of companies, institutions, and health - care companies, which did not meet with the political eyes of a health minister, have in common, are not to be Kingdom rulers but to work under a government service contract. These are individuals who have been an important link in Icelandic health care for decades but whose experience has also been evident in the short period of time. We have been speaking of the importance of making wise use of funds and efficiency, not of whom but of the service, but of managing government spending to this important case and the quality and security of service to patients. The system is run for public funds and it is the central role of the public to ensure the public as well as the most secure and reliable system. I sat yesterday in an interesting seminar for the Association of the Organization for Health Services, the Department of Medicine, the Social Services of Health Coaches, the Health Services Association and the Iceland Dental Association. This is the spine in Icelandic health care, which was promoted to this seminar called Annmarks for the government's purchase of health care, and that was the subject. Some 31% of the donations available for health care include extracurricular services, such as services. According to budgets for 2020, the total supply is 245 billion, followed by less than 30 more, but this 245, which I do not know how the rest will go to the 76 billion, 31%, members of the Council. Of these, nursing and living space take the long largest cost of 48 billion. Then comes the medical cost of 12 billion, rehabilitation 6 billion, physical therapy 5 billion, dental 5 billion. In addition, we are talking about the cost of 32 billion. It is the product of 22 billion, aid tools 5 billion, and so on, a gathered group of unidentified to 5 billion. This is outside. I am not going to minimize the loss of my empire, the fires that burn there, or the need and the complex activities of the Landskeeper. It's been repeated during the past two days, but maybe because this has been discussed less, I'm going to spend my time on that part because I believe that this has something to do with it. At yesterday's seminar, the company was KPMG with an introduction to a report it has won; in fact, I haven't seen this report; I don't think it's presented, but there was a presentation on the main points or points mentioned in the report. It's worth one Mass to go over those points. According to these, the main problems for the government on health care, the use of proben, are, first of all, that the trade process and arrangements are blurred. It suggests that the negotiation and export procedure is unclear. It is unclear how health insurance is going to apply within the standard for public shopping, something that is urgent to be handled by a body of Congress. There are conflicting agreements in the preparation, preparation and implementation of agreement agreement agreements and small formalities and then characterised by mistrust between parties. On the one hand, the work environment of these people was described as blurred. The time of contracts is usually too short, and it would have a negative impact on progress, investment and structure and uncertainty in the working environment, reducing innovation and implementation of experienced workers. Third, it was said of the blurred role of parties and responsibilities in which the Ministry of Health handles policy, financial and economic contributions, the land doctor's office with professional qualifications, and the health insurance of Iceland take care of shopping. The interaction of these parties would be very inaccessible. You could hear it in the case of many people at the seminar yesterday that they missed the arrival of the Ministry of Economics to the deal table, which is something else I believe is essential to a discussion. The lack of conversation, information and cooperation between health insurance and services was discussed, and the point came back. It was also said of the limited knowledge of Medical Security to care for the analysis, the preparation of agreements, the design of them, and the monitoring of them, something important to be done on. A situation between parties was discussed with only one buyer. There would be no way to resolve a problem. The Ministry of Health would simply be arranged if negotiations did not reach, and often the result was dramatic and sudden changes to service recipients. Finally, the lack of analysis and cost assessment was mentioned. This would not usually be an expense assessment of the type of service that was negotiated. Service and quality were often poorly defined, not a vision of the services of the providers and the patient's flow in the system and an example of a mutual lack of awareness of what is required of service and how it is valued. This, Mr. President, does not sound particularly fortunate, and unfortunately, there is no evidence that the situation is any better when our financial awareness of our otherwise superior health system, the part that takes over two thirds of the total health budget, is shown by the examples, and that has been discussed here in this discussion. Officials are no more than independent workers, with this black hole we're dealing with, and it can't go so much longer. I would like to take on a few examples, and I still have my mind fixed on this fine convention of speech that I sat on. It's a little bit of how, I don't know if I'm supposed to say ill, but it's been done by the health authorities to keep peace or to create war because sometimes I feel that there's a better way. I don't know if we can use the wording minister to go to war, but that was a bit of a tone yesterday, and I missed it, actually, so I'm telling you honestly, not to see any more senators, senators, e.g., at this fine seminar, because they were told stories that are relevant to us. I want to start physical therapy, and we know that story. A contract with a physical therapist was extended on the side of health insurance by nine months without prices. Then a six - week invitation was announced. It was not willing to negotiate with a physical therapist for the sake of the physical therapist, and only qualified personnel were allowed to participate. This delay has certainly been extended, but only by health insurance to give physical therapists more time to prepare, not to have a conversation about a different approach on the subject. Certainly, the cost of health insurance has increased, and as a result, the system has increased under physical training since the change of the payment system in the spring of 2017. However, it has also been observed that the increase has slowed down, and it can be reasoned that there were certain oppressors to meet, and then some increase must have been expected, that would have been the purpose, for others to take advantage of this service. There is also a need to compare this increase with some savings in other parts of the system. Some have mentioned less disability, but I don't know it. It takes more history to look at it. However, it is clear that this is an important part of the rehabilitation process, not only in the well - being of those now able to use that service but also in other parts of the system. That's the story. The cancer community is another society that has been treated somewhat. It received a request from the Ministry to continue the service despite the failure of a new contract and a new arrangement was due to be established, and then, from the Ministry of Medical Insurance, an extension was committed. Then, changes were introduced, and now the initial examination, the cancer examination, also to the Land Hospital at the end of the next year, with no clear benefit. It has not been shown whether the service will be better, whether it will be less expensive, whether it will be better paid, whether its strength is better paid by taking preemptive tasks, such as the more important and important tasks that he will perform, and no one else can do. Clinical studies were done three years ago by the Cancer Society. It has paid off in long periods of waiting, unfortunately. Now the evidence is that it is so good to have it in the same place as it was before. Fine. It's called a dog's pavilion, or a ring balance, but let's look at it. It doesn't matter in itself here any more than in any other time. Under which hat is this, but it's important that you know why it is being changed and that you can reason on the matter of quality, security, or cost. It is also true that in recent years this service has been paid by the cancer club 50 million. Now it's got the highest. Health Ministers come forward and say: We will guarantee this cost. That's at least Fifty million that leave the budget. All of this is done without understanding exactly how it serves the interests of those using the system. Then there's something very interesting, and it's actually deserved a special discussion, too, because the government's tendency is to transfer an assignment to the government from sources who are employed under contract. There is usually a detailed requirement behind that agreement. However, that is a requirement, although it may not be in harmony with payment or may not be sufficient. But that is a requirement. But when the service takes place, as in this case to the hospital, there is no requirement. The hospital's just going to solve it. I believe he'll do it well, there's professionals there, but that doesn't make it any more difficult to monitor. Another story many know is that of a professional doctor. There are contracts available from the beginning of the year, and this is in force of regulations with the agenda and discussions of Medical Insurance and Medical Association have not concluded. We all know the story of the wait list. I believe that it is the full will of the health authorities and the government and all the government of the United States to overcome these requirements as far as possible. There is one of the best there, of course, but the way that has gone is simply not particularly credible. I think we can all agree on that. It could be better than that. The way it is taking place there is not a sighting of the end of the rainbow, that we get rid of this list of what we can, the maximal use of employees we have, and the facilities we have against our needs. There's some other factor that matters, and that's the political vision. It holds government, government, responsibility. The message is somehow this way: We'll keep our lists before we're looking for cooperation with an independent body. There's the knife in the cow. Another person who can say that he is not even, some health care professionals. It was noted in the review of independent clinics at the financial bill now that there is concern about how little emphasis is placed on the core operations of health care centers, i.e. Medical and nursing. It is true that much more money has been brought to the health care center with the goal of establishing it as the first stop than when we consider the funds have been followed by a new kind of service; mental health care and psychological services. True, it is good, but it is very unwise, not to speak strongly, to count the funds twice. During this new service under health care it will not go into the nuclear functions that have been medical and nursing. There has been a need, too. We also need to strengthen our health - care providers to meet that need if we are to reach the goal of strengthening them as our first stop, so that we can do better. I have to admit that I could not get into business with state - bearing clinics to see if the situation was the same. But this is at least the situation at independent centres, which are a large part of the health care system in the capital area, in order to be maintained. Finally, in this illustration, I want to talk about nursing homes. It has shown that there has been no new extension of contracts with nursing homes. Instead, a legal Regulation is set that does not take into account updated RUG factors. This year, an increase approved by the Council to 276 billion. K. because of the increased weight of nursing, in connection with the budget talk, it does not work out. Despite the agreement in this hall, a large part of the budget proposal was made on additional contributions to nursing at 276 million to face the most urgent emergency, it does not result from, according to Iceland's Medical Insurance, that there were no contracts. And why aren't there any deals? Iceland's health insurance has the contract, says the Department of Health. That's all the answers. In the Treaty of the Government's Left Greenness, Independence Class, and Progress, the same is true. that you must consider supporting the management ground of nursing homes. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to read from the review of a company's Association of Health Services: ON September 10, 2000, the Council was submitted by a TV program for budgeting the year 2020. The budget of 2018, 2018, and the budgets now laid before 2020 include cutting down the current operation of virtually every nurse in the country. The bill also includes surgery for the management of day-to-day services in the country, whether in general or in special day selections for special populations such as individuals with alzheimer or MS patients. In accordance with available budget and financial programmes for the period 2020/2024, the cut-off period is to be continued between 2020 and 2021. It has repeatedly been observed that by the Constitution of Iceland's Medical Insurance for 2019, which was the result of the failure of negotiations, according to one report, the payment system of nursing homes was tolerated. In view of the change in nursing weight, as I said before, and that, despite a further report on the importance of this payment system and the special funds I mentioned earlier, was not updated to households. This was done one - sided without announcement, without consultation, without notice, and this I know because I watched the whole thing very closely. Last night at the seminar, there was a situation difference between Iceland's Medical Insurance and Our Deal. It crystallizes with the fact that the Convention failed and the homes function according to the one - sided registration. There have been four contracts this year, and there seems to be a lack of incentive to complete a contract, at least does not seem to be able to place enough information on where to go from the position in which the parties are currently in to continue the contracts. As a result, nursing homes that will pass business on the right side of the bar this year are becoming counting on the fingers of one hand. Survival figures from 30 nursing homes, which were in the budget of Medical Insurance for Nurses'Service in 2018, and then fell into the New Bank of 2018, show that in 2018, 15 of the 30 were negative. Bear in mind that when nursing homes or other health care professionals working under a service contract fail to run their way on the right side of the line, they will attend this coin only to the next year with the required loss of service and worse management. There's no raise, there's nothing else to pick up. During the past year, half of nursing homes were expelled in minus 2019, and 26 out of 30 nursing homes estimated that the recovery would be negative. 87% of nursing homes will be fired this year. What did the government covenant once again say? The goal is to strengthen the foundation of nursing homes? It was somehow that way. This means that the combined publication of 2018 was negative about 350 million. Estimated recovery of the same 2019 homes is negative by 850 million. K. They are the same people, except that they are caring for our best people, the elderly, and the elderly, above all others, deserve a decent service that the Landstics, our flagship, need to be able to do their job so that the Landspians can do their job. Here we are talking about priorities. Mr. President. We need to worry about this situation. I believe at least Not only does the government and the Senate share their concerns with me. The difference between me and the government is that they have the authority to change this, and I expect to see a tendency toward them in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u45	Mr. President. There are a few things I would like to include in my talk on budgets by 2020. There are a number of changes to be made in the budget of the bill, and since many have gone through those points, I do not intend to do so in this talk. But there are some things I want, as I say, to act. Some of these are repeated material from last year's meeting, and I want to first mention the insurance bill that will be reduced to 0.25 percentages now according to the bill. According to economic forecasts, the income of the insurance bill is rising a little bit, about 1.5 billion a year, and now for the first time over 100 billion in 2020 - no, pardoning, just about 100 billion on budgets of 2019 and on a plan available, which goes to over 102 billion in 2020. Of course, this is one of the pay that the job pays most of its effort, for most of us here in the hall know that the increase in insurance was in the way around the collapse of the year that it is long ago time for this charge to go back to the point of collapse. In fact, this is the first year that we're looking at increasing unemployment as a part of our towards and an additional amount of money, because I think it's the right thing to say about 10 billion people in unemployment insurance. We'll see what this substantial increase in unemployment is, in fact, a low percentage of the total income that comes from the government budget. There are, of course, more factors that have been added to be funded by the insurance fee than I allow to claim, without having a deep analysis here in the pont, that the insurance bill is all too much to become a general budget of government funds but not intended to live up to the sole factors it was originally intended for, even though it takes into account the factors that have been added in late under the insurance hat. So I want to reiterate that it is frustrating to see how far this price can be achieved. We in the Central Party have proposed a change to the bill that expects a double reduction in this budget so that the reduction will be 0.5 percentage points, not 0.2. The fact is, there is a lot of room for that, and we should do so in order to let additional oxygen into the job life that is so desperately needed by many to keep this loss. Another factor I would like to mention, which is repeated material, is the capital tax. Thus, for those who remember in the first budget of this government, in December 2017, it is a great deal of importance in combating the rise in capital income taxes from 20 to 22% and were adopted here, as is the case with most tax issues proposed in the history of this government. At a convention, it was said that a year's expansion of the capital tax would be changed so that capital taxes would bring on real growth, not on name. I can tell myself that I had a certain understanding of the lack of confidence in the implementation of the short - term budget for the year December 2017. Then in December 2018, there was a whole year of financial work, but nothing happened. I asked about it back then, and somehow it had not been time or contented with how to implement it. Now we're back here two years later, and nothing's happened. Was it mere formality to contribute to the promotion of these tax changes, but would there be an antidote that would lead to capital tax growth, not to name production, but to salty forwards for the anticipated future? Now there is only one budget left in this government when this one will be approved, and it will be interesting to see if the government groups will fulfill this part of their promise and what is stated in the Treaty, that capital gains will be taken from realism rather than credit. This is something that matters, and if nothing has happened at that point, we will be reminded of that year. Independents who support this government have been particularly diligent in saying that this is coming, but it takes a little more time to implement it. Sadly, two years have passed, and there is little evidence to suggest that there will be any change when the last budget of that government will be submitted until one year. I wanted to remind you because I had an understanding of this at first. - Shall I speak faster or shorter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u46	Shorter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u47	It's good to go. paritaprevir Níelsson's armour has come to the hall, for against asking his fellow class members what has become of the change that turns toward taking money from realism and not of name, I will speed up my case as much as I can. This was a contract made between us right here. This is what I wanted to say about the fiscal tax and I'll expect to review it up to a year if there's no claim. But I trust each other. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson is very successful in following this matter, for I know that he is deeply interested in and deeply understanding it. Next time, I'd like to go to green taxes. It has often been criticized at a conference that green taxes are, apparently, the government's special interest, and no member of the council is going to be buried in it, at least. ... nota council of the council of the left green. Yet, that has not yet been the answer to the success of human efforts to achieve with measurable goals by means of a so - called carbon tax. It's been rising again and it's still up 10%, if I remember correctly. Of course, I don't think it's acceptable for men to act in such a way as to bring up a tax rise under the flag of green taxes without having anything to hold on to their effectiveness if their function is any. The fact is, this is just a general tax increase that this government has been so interested in, apparently, unfortunately. We at the Central Party shall bring up an adjustment proposal suggesting that the rate be reduced from the expected rise in carbon tax, but we will see how it works. I'm a modest optimism and, in fact, a relatively pessimisticity, but it's only the standard in the real world that teaches it. At any rate, I'd like to make sure that, after the time we've gone through with the rise in the carbon account, the hand doesn't trust to explain in a measurable way how that tax recovery works. There is nothing in the law of the law itself that suggests that there is no effect on the tax system. Another tax that fell a bit from heaven a few months ago is so-called puny tax, and I want to commend a financial committee, don't you think? [[Investigated by a Economic and Business Commission.]] The Economic and Business Committee is, of course. You're taking this to yourself, the guys sitting there. I'd like to commend the committee that's appropriate - just both of us - for falling away from this demented tax. [[Up front, just both.]] Of course, it was quite prepared. Now they're going to give their thanks, the guys in the front row, for all of you who can't see. It was not prepared well, it was not prepared, and it was just another attempt to raise taxes. There is no way to flaunt anything that is like green taxes that should achieve green goals if one does not know what the tax will be and does not know how they will get along with it. Of course, there are some superficial explanations, but the fact is that this was not the end of the matter, but luckily it was gone. I would so much like to make similar decisions as to the rise in carbon pay now and more pay made by the Icelandic taxpayers during the New Year's Eve. According to green taxes, I'd like to briefly establish the development of funds for transport and communications, a range of 11. The contents of the chart on page 3 - 9 billion are being added. A total of 10 members of the Committee's Committees are expected to make budgets of 2020 and 2021 but then to go out again. I expect a new government, when it becomes a kin, to make it better, and to reimpose the funds, at least - Time goes by pretty fast. [[Up front.]] This shot, this injection in the transport sector this year, and in 2021 according to plan, it's important, but I'm sorry to say it's not everything. If we watch that we now have an estimated 3.9 billion special funding, it is estimated to be a road, and surely it is not fat - headed when it comes to financing the current road. But there seems to be an over-the-date need for big-time airports, domestics, and ports. I'm thinking that in the work of the environment and transportation committee, when a transport program comes in, hopefully over the next few weeks, something will be looked forward to the fact that a part of them will only be due to the ill necessity of going to seafronts and projects at airports. So I think it is unrealistic to look at the way the injection in Vega itself will be done in the way it is suggested, but the need is many times compared to what is stated here. In the chart I referred to on page 18. In the 2011/2012 issue of this committee, it is clear that the development is positive. The fact is, when real investments are being looked forward to from this point on to the maintenance that has been entrusted to them, it has been very short during all this time. We get into a big maintenance debt, so that a mild word is said, and an investment in shallow wood has, unfortunately, fallen apart. They're coming from a very low zero, and it's best for all of us to approach it with that in mind because it's obvious. We're still watching it, for example. that urban areas on the West are linked to base networks with malar, even dirt roads, if you can say so. We're still talking about the message being that it's going to take decades to finish the Smokey Way, the Southland Road, and the West Coast to the citynes. It is an enormous task to do, and with the amount of money that is available here, it is accomplished very slowly. But this is what we do better when it comes to a transport plan. But without counting it, I trust to claim that a donation to road construction, either for maintenance or for a new project, on a mile [mile] on the highway system is very low and especially low if we look in 2006 and 2009/2010. I think that with all the increased traffic in rental cars and the pressures that this traffic has put on the road with increasing transport, we are not able to reach our tails in terms of our need for maintenance. I just want to come back on the carbon bill, because it has to do with the taking of traffic. It is calculated that the carbon account, although not always traffic, is a dramatic part of it that goes up by 360 million. K. between the years of 2019,2020. At the same time, an estimated 500 million large amounts of oil will be delivered in 2020, from 12.3 billion to 12.6. The trend in terms of economic forecasting does not suggest that those who wrote these budgets have any faith that the carbon account works, for there is no evidence that the carbon account works. There's something else I'd like to point out, other environmental taxes. It's on page 8. 385 on the budget bill itself. I haven't dived into this number, but the increase between the years is about 50%, from 4.8 billion to 7.2. Although the roles were reversed, it would be interesting to get an explanation from one of the legal committees in the hall. The same applies to specific services taxing by 39%, ranging from 6.6 billion to 9.3. All of this is under the rule of song that we are now reducing taxes, finally, at last. There's one thing I want to come in before I'm happy about it. The vice president of Brumes, Níelsson's son, inconspicuously, shortens my speech. Table 5 on page 24. 387 of the budget bill is given to the management base of the budget of the A-part State Fund by topic fields. This is just to remind you of the amount spent on the media issue. There's a multimedia budget of 2019 when the amount was 4,711 million, to 5,315 million. I have to say, at the times when, in many places, there's a lot of work to do, I think it's pretty much in the background. I'm not going to make any specific suggestions for those matters right now, but I wanted to keep this up. Finally, though, I'd like to say that the ship's probably sailed to the point that there is one adjustment made by a financial committee that I think could be greatly added to the reduction of the taxpayer next year. It is a 3.6 billion reduction to the new construction of the Land Hospital on the Highway of Ring Road. I'm thinking the ship isn't sailing. It would be wise to stop this project and start it somewhere else. The job would be done before these drills would be finished on Ring Road. I also know that I'm in a lot less part of the councilroom in terms of that position, but what has been going on so far encourages the fear of the steps, and there's not much evidence to suggest that the success of the task will be the way I certainly believe everyone in this room is going to be. But as I say, there's no evidence at the moment. To that end, I will finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u48	Mr. President. Climate change will not be brought by air, but money, and the central category seems to be on that scale, some kind of air throwaway under a cover, which it calls the measurement of what is invested in money for specific projects. The cost of climate change is fact, and these are large sums of money. Money needs to be adjusted, money needs less, and money needs to be increased. It's billions of dollars on top. What, then, is the income of the carbon pay we collect? It's not earmarks, it's not market income. It's going to the park for cars, all kinds of cars, at least $3 billion a year. It's going to be electrolinks, strengthening and supporting cars over the country, the energy exchange, that's what they say. It is quite certain that there is a demand for increased will from all rentals, public transportation owners, etc. So it needs to be raised by carbon. Then there is the value of carbon binding through deforestation, land healing, wetlands, etc. and we might even talk about shorthands that are positive in climate pressure. True, it is true that not every cent can be traced to the carbon. Then I ask, How do you say this? What's the formula? I'd love to hear it from you. paritaprevir The result of this carbon price is seen in the case of Berghir Ólason. And another thing I want to know, what I've been listing: how will the Central Party finance what I've been listed for billions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u49	Mr. President. First, how to measure the results of a carbon tax. I readily admit that I have no suspicion of it any more than the Minister of the Environment, I stand absolutely in a hole, and I could now save an environmental minister in this case that I'm filling it up. [[Up front.]] I just have no idea how to measure this, and it's the same thing as the Environment Minister has answered. [[Up front.]] The fact is, of course, that if they develop at all times. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson listed, which are only fractions of the action, the reaction that is being considered here at home and abroad, if all the operations are to be run through with speed, we are likely to be entering some of the most economic failures we have seen in later history. It is this way, as we have spoken in the Middle Ages, that we must approach the matter based on science, the very measurable goals. For all these activities to be taken into account from something that is not measurable - we know the discussion about 1.5°C and 2°C but, of course, it all has to be detectable in one way or another. If it's to take care of all the activities that are most concerned, I'm not going to allow myself to say what some people say about them, I think the effect on the economy of the Icelandic and Western world will be that the position of homes, companies, society will be much worse than if people approach it with moderation, focusing on things that will result in success and not in any formality. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u50	Mr. President. I can assure you what. A senator says that we are extremely moderate. We're probably paying, that's from other tax dollars we're paying now. What happens in the future at that point, I won't tell you, but I know that if we don't respond to what's going on with capitalism, we're going to get into extreme disaster, whether we can handle it or not or not, we're going to pay enough. That's it. That's it. Now I'm gonna pray. A senator who later uses his answer. I want to hear how the Central Party wants to deal with this, how he's going to help us finance what we're doing now, even if only inquisitions, electric cars, and 3 billion. How?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the counter-sponsored. If we look at how driving and vehicle are treated, we have an entire table bearing within the framework of taking these 3 billion to the indiscriminate in terms of the cost of goods and the worthy of extra taxation on environmentally friendly cars. Then there is a very different question about whether this is really wise for a much longer time than we are watching right now. I think it's happening in a way that the car producers control it much more than we do by national tax laws. But now there is a short period of time, so I'm not going to go deeper into it. The question was, How will the media finance this operation? The central category stresses the growth of the land's business and home so that tax recovery will increase, making a total profit. That may even happen. are taken by reducing taxes, tax percentages. It promotes the economy that produces more taxes in the Kingdom box. [[The president calls.]] We don't want to go along the path that a panel of greens left to make, is eager to follow, to add heavily to green taxes, so that's the case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u52	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u53	Mr. President. It was not surprising, however, that a member of the Central Party was slightly inclined by those who have been called in the English language ◯climate sceptics, but by modern skeptics in the seeds of global warming, at least repeatedly, members of the Party minimize the science behind it and make it very clear that there is no scientific measurement and no science here. I find it very difficult to attend that discussion. But I was going to ask. A member of the Parliament, as the other members of the Central Party have deputized a so - called evil idea, I think, will do enough to put it into practice. But now it's up to you. A senator, that the companies in this country are not good enough to sort. The companies in the country are the ones who represent most of the victims relative to what they buy from the products. The way to get the members to classify better, and the growling of less taxation has been the tool that has proved to be good in our communities around us. How others view the problem. People of the Central Party to change these behaviours of an enterprise?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u54	Mr. President. We have even. Kindly say that waste, if properly held, can include a particular resource, not just costs. There is a synonym that is proposed by all members of the Central Party to be viewed as the work form of high - tech garbage incineration. Of course, it is not acceptable that we are doing -- Well, that is what is being done. But I ask the contrary, even though I'm not in a position to do so here in answer to: Does the senators take the left green to see that we're moving wastes between countries with its its own carbon tracks and bringing our own problems abroad as far as this is concerned? I think we need to set up a situation that allows companies to see their best interests in handling the garbage. In my old business I was in here for years, all the cutters of concrete iron, wood, and so on were very well kept in mind. Although this is a major part of the overall problem, it is still that plastics can have their own use, wood, and commercial waste. We need to approach these things with our eyes open, but I don't think it's going to be done by forced tax measures, since the above seemed not to be thinking of how they were going to approach it. We'll see, for example. Areas such as Ísafjörður, which must be carried their garbage by long distance, to a fool's hole in the western part of the country. There have been significant successes in this category without any official tax compression in the past. I imagine that it's achieved because it knows the people and the companies that this will bring benefits to this town without my research to prepare it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u55	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. In effect, a senator agrees with the objective behind the taxation, i.e. to get people and businesses to sort out better, not to throw away valuables. This is the instrument that countries around us have been able to use, and it has reduced the price. I agree with the senator that it is not acceptable for us to have a substantial cost of exporting wastes abroad, and it may be necessary to have one large incinerator anywhere in the country. But there is no solution to the environmental problem in the large context, by no means. This may be one way to prevent the export of waste. However, the calculations so far have not been shown, unfortunately, that it is necessarily the most practical way, perhaps the most because we are so small a country, i.e. so few people live here that we really need more crowds and, as ridiculous as it sounds, more junk to burn to make them pay off.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u56	Mr. President. That's an excellent last word in return, that we need more junk. I think that the small thing I took from Iceland, which I know with the limitations I mentioned and indicated, can become a pretty good guide in achieving success around us. I think it's very important in this context, for example. Just the public and corporate expense awareness that the public is aware of this: hey, if I'm misinforming or turning in more garbage than is fatal, it'll affect the town fund that's supposed to be up to educate my children and all the projects that society has in it. I think that's the way to do this, not force it with an poorly developed tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for the Bergþór of Ólason. I pray for respect for my charismatic drama that I feel has ruined my speech or severely shortened it. Hv. A senator pointed to me a question about the capital income tax, and I believe it is a very difficult thing for us to try to calculate the real capital gains. It has been widespread in the discussion that people are paying a small tax of capital income, but the mass pays no taxes because of the tax paid on all the benefits. We have a problem. I'm asking why. A senator would be easier to lower this tax than we used to do in the complex operation of trying to find out exactly the real income. I know that neighboring nations have taxes similar to ours today, but they actually pay less taxes because they are taken from real wages. That calls for a very heavy system. I'm asking why. A senator doesn't agree with me that it would be easier to lower the tax. We'll see what the mass of capital money is for the normal Icelanders. Although it's a financing goal, he pays off no income taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the answer. I totally agree with what. A senator, of course, would be the only thing to bring back the tax. In fact, when he proposes that the taxprofen go to 20%, I might be able to make a change in the motion of putting it down to 18-9119%, but I would be quite content to put it back to 20%. I think it was just a mistake, and I guess it's because when you decide to do that, you'll find that there's a lot of complications involved in the analysis of real-life production at a time. I'm the kind of person who wants the system to be as simple and transparent as anything in a modest tax system. I remind you every year, although men have only carried out the tax increase line of this operation, I think it would be a great improvement to make the increase from 20% to 22% go back instead of working on the real growth goal. But either it has to be done, and if I get any advice, my vote will fall by reducing the tax rate rather than increasing the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u59	Mr. President. Now that a lot of things have been tore up in this fine discussion of the budget, I have to admit that there's a certain lack of appreciation for this financial debate. You wonder what you chose. Many people have talked about many things, but several factors are the essence. Well, first of all, it's just not some really bad financial bill. It's not much of a budget bill, either, but we're in the middle of the season. We understand how that government works, both pro and negative, and there may be little reason to do otherwise, but to point out just what might go better and wait and hope for space, perhaps after the next election, to make up for what is missing. There is no end to talking about the classical budget, health, transportation, and, of course, income institutions, but in order to avoid repeating too much material and even obvious things, I just want to talk about a few topics and finally come into play only on the terms of state funds. I'm gonna start with the innovation. The contribution to the EU Framework Programme on Education, Research and Technology, seems to have been overestimated at some point, that I am excreted in Brussels, but still too high an estimated 787.9 million. K. I understand that if someone from the budget is there, he would correct me if I had a misunderstanding. But it was moved down instead of moving this money into place. This money had been assumed, that it would be used in innovation, and that, as a result, I feel, rather boring that it will not be used in innovation. There was an opportunity to improve, since there was a calculus. Most of the time, there were 7,87.9 million who could have been used to this party, but it's as if they were missing ideas on how to use it. That's a sin because we need more innovation in this country. We are extremely busy bragging about the magnitude of innovation, yet, for example, innovation is really a recession on innovations. Because Rannis often finishes most of his money early in the year and is not able to support all that was worth supporting, technology fund is not well financed. There is a problem with the companies who want to go into great innovations because to form the largest single strength available at Ranni's today is up to 70 million. K. Which is certainly a large coin, but in the large context, this is not enough to get a company from the beginning to the place where it can start to do big things. There is a general lack of investment money in the Icelandic economy that many have discussed. There's a chance I can do better than that. In the long run, I think we should consider that the Icelandic state is a shareholder in the Asian Development Bank. The Asian evolutionist is an amazing tool for promoting a variety of developments in Southeast Asia. But why does no Icelandic evolutionary bank exist? Why is there no funds directly aimed at ensuring that new technologies and ideas can receive both loans and investments that they need to get through the initial steps? This arrangement is widely known throughout the world. In fact, this is why some countries have become very prominent in Iceland. Of course, it would be desirable if the bank, pension, and other large funds available could be investing and lending in the amount of money needed, but it does not seem to have happened for natural reasons, and then we need to ask ourselves: " What changes are there in order to make it work? I don't know what the answer is, but maybe the answer is that it just needs someone who's meant to do it. This could push innovation into a considerable way. Of course, innovation goes hand in hand with another group of subjects I want to discuss, which is the educational language. A day-to-day report was now published by a committee I direct, and there we discuss a little about the phenomenon of a strudeling ever-education. It is the idea that we stop viewing education as something that we start to do early in life and then finish sometime, usually in our 20's, and then stop adding. That's not the case anymore. Most of us are very diligent in adding knowledge, experience, abilities, and especially professional rights throughout our lives. It's something today that is a special case in the system. It is not expected that ever - increasing education will be the same as ordinary or traditional education. This makes it difficult for some high school students who have had a hard time offering permanent education opportunities to do so. Also, there is limited access to the university system in some cases. It would be possible to go to a high school route, to offer what is called a physical exercise, but real - life assessment is not yet a university level, and I think that in some case, it will occur because even if everyone is willing to make this arrangement, it's just just a small amount of money to go to work at this level, and this will cost some money. In general, so many are badly funded, and it seems, without certainty, I can say that the formula for students'values provide very different amounts of money, even for very similar studies. Of course, I don't have the formula myself. This is a specific problem, but there is reason to believe that schools in the country are particularly discriminated against in this regard and that some schools are even saluted beyond others. They need to see if this works out and correct it so that schools work on equal terms. If we are to prepare for a longer future, we need to realize that the kids who are starting school this year are not going to the workplace until 2040, even 2045, or approach 2050, depending on their high school careers. We have no idea how society will be in 2045, but we can try to make sure that those who come out of school at that time will be as well prepared as possible, including those who come out of school at that time. by making good investments in education, by making better use of the funds that go into education. It is a recent observation from OECD in this regard that perhaps we are not getting as much out of the education system as we should be doing compared to the control countries. In any case, there is a problem with how money seems to fall into education. My exhortation to the government in this case is simply to try to coordinate the system, to do this so that all schools are doing as well, that the schools can all offer a top degree of education, and that we stop walking out of school and become able instead to acquire a flexible lifelong education throughout the course of life. So only on climate issues. I heard before from a talk. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son that a little environmental taxes and environmental expenditures were being criticized, of course, But I think it's important that we realize that carbon dioxide emissions on Iceland's responsibility is not an alpha and the Omega problem. We are on one earth, the whole human race, except for the individuals on board at the international space station. This one earth must work together to solve this problem. We are responsible for some 4 million tons of CO2 equivalents each year, i.e. In a direct way, the United States. We're releasing about 24 million tons, plus/minus some scrawl. But Iceland is a small country. Mankind as a whole releases over 1,000 billion tons of carbon dioxide a year. There's a lot to do to get this down. Some of these 1,000 billion tons are in a circuit that can be maintained by agricultural reforms and measures, but most of these measures are simply due to the fact that at times a major burning on carbohydrate chains that have remained in the world's soil for millions of years. I began to wonder recently how much it costs, not just Iceland, but in general, to take a billion tons of carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. There is no simple answer, for there are many ways. You could do something similar to the CarbFix project, injecting out carbon dioxide. It seems to cost about $5 billion in that case. We could start trying to turn this into fuel and make use of it. Then we are talking about even up to 700 billion, which is, of course, a similar amount that was used to save the banks in the United States this year. The TARS project of the United States government. But it would simply be possible to change the way the consumer acts and other things are. There's no right answer. But one thing I see in this is that when Iceland achieves its commitment - and I hope we get it - the question is, What are we going to do next? What will we do after we have fulfilled the Paris covenant? If the answer is, we're done and then we can stop, and all the other countries can just take their responsibility, then we, I think, are losing a certain opportunity because all this education and all these innovations that I was talking about turn around just to create a chance to overcome the world's problems, whether there's a lack of access to fish - we've built up an excellent industry around it - the lack of the access of aluminium - we've built an excellent industry around it - or an overexploitation of carbon dioxide. Where is our industry? Why are we not going to assume that one of Iceland's major exports in the next decade will become a technology to rid the world of overexploitation of carbon dioxide? This would be one of the things we could do. If we do this well, if we have a powerful innovation policy now, this could bring us considerable financial gain as well as the incalculable advantage that possibly mankind will not be seriously damaged by climate change. It's just a little thing. I hope she returns something. But only on the role of the taxes and the government in general, so you just shift. You see, I feel that it is now a good reason to discuss how we are involved in a fortune - making community and how we finance the treasure of the Kingdom. Where does money come from? In this context, it is important to be careful about a particular context. For decades, I began to wonder how World War II would have been if the United States had driven their economy at that time according to the concept of government today. I think there's something we can say for sure that the allies lost the war because one of the foundation leaders is that there are always limits to government funds in each case and that it is justified by trying to avoid walking too close to the private sector. This sounds like a zero-sum game to me that someone else has to lose. But Iceland's economy and economy in other countries are not zero - in - line, much less when we talk about all the international transactions that take place between them. Thus, the ultimate limit to how much money a state can spend is not dependent on how much money they can make or how much money they can pass through their budget. Rather, it is simply the production and production capacity of the society behind it. For every cent lost by the government, some teacher, some nurse, somewhere in the system is building roads, building bridges, education children, doing something useful for the economy. In a very large number of cases, it is a private company that is accepting this budget and then putting it back in traffic by various means. Then there are people who take money in the form of pay and put it back in traffic, and gradually this will go out in a useful way to drive the economy forward. As a result, the conservative attitude of trying to limit the expenses of the state's budget because of the not - to - be - destroyed ideas of the state is in many cases undermined by society's production and interest in the private sector. At whose expense? Yes, it is one of the most important factors in society's overall production capacity. Who is she? We have a measure of it, it's called production tension. Surely, we do not want the production pen to be top - to - top because it has certain negative consequences as well. Similarly, it is not to say that we should always be on some fee drinker for fun. Of course, we are to take care of the financial resources and, in general, spend on things that pay much back to our community. However, this would be beneficial if archaic economic theories were to be replaced by newer ones and that economic management would be in harmony with products and manufacturing ideas. This was done during the second world war, and this was literally the way the United States used to win World War II because they realized that what they needed, above all else, was to get everyone to work to make what was needed to win the war at that time. Mankind is now faced with another war, but this is not a war with any country. Rather, it is a war, in fact, against our own shortsightedness, against the fact that we have been releasing into the atmosphere 1,000 billion tons of CO2 for a long time, and we seem to be giving in. So if we were to turn the economy into a solution to this problem, we've had a multiplicity of proof that there would be a great economic benefit to us. According to modern economic theories, it appears to be more consistent with the way things work, it is possible to assume that it may be possible to adjust the expenses of a state fund with the intention of achieving and maintaining a particular amount of production, which means little unemployment. You could say: We don't want any unemployment except what may be systematic, i.e. People who have problems working for some reason - and they could solve that problem too. This is possible because we understand modern economics. To put all of this into context, I may first criticize the fact that these financial laws, such as the budgets of the past few decades, maintain some sort of stationary point toward society. Worse still: This position has gradually been undermined by long - term community support. It is evident that schools are less funded than they were long ago, if you go far back enough; in the fact that rural society can live up to certain expectations of its inhabitants; that it is simply harder to do things that seemed perfectly normal around 1960 or 1970. I'm not saying that we always have to go back to that, because there was a lot to do with the community then, too. But perhaps we should stop and ask ourselves, " Why can we do fewer things of a particular nature now, despite being doing more of another way? ' Is there something we have done to ourselves by becoming caught up in some kind of delusion about how government matters really work? Can we, perhaps, educate ourselves by examining just earlier ideas, by pushing even worse ideas aside, by reaching better social data for everyone, as well as by perhaps in the process of solving the biggest problems of our day? I think this is possible, and I encourage anyone who can affect the results of that matter to try to change it - at least next year if it's not possible right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy interesting speech. Hv. A senator introduced education and innovation. I want to come up here, first to keep my voice straight. Senator. This is a future, and no matter how we ponder economic theories or anything, I think most of us can agree that future economic growth is primarily based on innovation, research, and education. I think money, though, is always well spent in education and innovation. Of course, we have to be careful to make good use of the money, to be sure, Mr. President. I wanted to keep it in place here that we have the next budget rate of 2017 raise money to innovation by 13.8% that the real value in the context of the objects is a fairly high percentage, whether the comparison is back in time or at the value of other budgetaries where there is not a very expensive investment. We have also increased to high school to real value at this time by 1.4%, i.e. This is where the shorthand money should be used for higher donations per student. We have raised contributions to the university to the absolute value of less than 3 billion, 6.4%, so we're thinking it like a dog. A senator was talking about. The question is, because of what. A senator pointed out a report indicating that we may not be getting enough money for the money: Can the senator just review the report and the standards? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u61	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, it is true that there have been very fine increases in donations for various lawsuits and, as I said at the beginning of my talk, these are not exactly bad financial laws, although they are not the most wonderful financial laws that could ever be imagined. One thing that makes it hard for you to do government opposition is that it's a real will for the government to try to make things better, and you celebrate it. To answer a question, why? I was referring to an analysis of various factors involved. Monday from OECD including was discussed about the general economy in good condition - or whether it was the World Bank. A lot has happened this week, and memory may not quite work out. In any case, the results showed that Iceland's economy works well, most of it works very well, but there are certain weaknesses. One weakness mentioned in this context was that, in view of educational contributions, Iceland has a lower proportion of graduates at different levels, etc. but people should expect to be in comparison with other countries. I'm sorry, I can't refer to this more accurately because I don't have the reference on my hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u62	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. The senator's answer. I think the essence is the point of that. The speaker mentioned, that our appreciation for the money, no matter where it goes, the school system, or anything else, is important. We appreciate the ability to have an efficient school system where we can give our students the best service and teaching, whether at a high school, a high school, or a college degree. We are certainly looking to compare ourselves with OECD, with the northern countries, as we know, and this is important. Hv. In an interesting way, a senator may not have had time to go beyond that depth. I talked a lot about my financial background. I don't think that it changed when we look to economics what it means to the economic climate, to what policy we have, and to how we manage the resources we have, what the consequences are, because the impact on all the subsidies of valuables comes through the extent we see in the state's budget. Well, that's 1,000 billion once. We see economic forecasts taking into account what is seen in Kingdom funds plans for the future, and that is a big improvement. The World Cash Fund has, for example. Give thanks to governments for things that are different from those of the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u63	Mr. President. I realize that now, when it happened. One senator says that I may not have addressed just what I was referring to these teachings. I'm pointing out that there's a tendency in government affairs in Iceland, and in other parts of the world, to act like a government fund is a homebook, which it's not because no home can produce its own currency. Thinking in such a way is an old tug in Neonic economics, which has been largely proved false. In addition, ideas have come up in late-tallnesian economics and what is called modern money theories, by permission of Presidents, ◯modern monetary of theory, which simply check these early theories. As we look at our government spending, it is true that there are 1,000 billion, and surely we are being commended for how well this works, but that does not mean that teachers are still badly rewarded. Nurses are still badly rewarded. It's hard to get people into these classes. It is also simply difficult to run some of the government's institutions. It will always be, but maybe if we were working for better economic teachings, we could do better. What I'm actually pointing out is that there may be some sort of mind error going on somewhere because some people think that a government fund is like a homebook that it isn't, and if we quit, we could use the right models and get a conclusion that may create a way to be with well - paying teachers who are better off, we might be less concerned about how to pay rent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u64	V.E.G. President. We have the budget under consideration. You could say we're in the final meters of this round. It is a budget that for the first time in seven years, from 2013, will be cast out, and there are certain factors that may have an impact. Iceland's Office has even been Reports of increased economic uncertainty in this country, as it is called, and there is apparent that the economy is slow, and therefore appropriate measures have to be taken. In this regard, you need to mention a series of presentations that need a considerable contribution, especially at the moment, as is the case today. The first thing I'd like to mention here, and I'm focusing on health and welfare matters. With the members of the Central Party, we have proposed adjustments that are aimed at fostering and fostering. To them. However, there are some uncertainty factors that are involved, and it is sufficient to mention travel as a major source of influence in a relationship where it has been last to lose a lot of employment in the country and thus an important source of currency income. It matters what will happen in the coming years, and it is urgent that the government and all of us here are awakened and fell asleep over this trend. It is a pleasure to see that the first steps seem to be taken to expand the base of Akureyri, and the local people look to investments like KEA, who have already produced plans that could be followed. It was also reported today that the locals were working on an international flight between Akureyri and Britain. It was only disappointing to see that flying development fund is not active even though I know or think that it will be called to him, if we can put it that way, if this international flight gets back on which I hope it will, of course, be. Our proposals, members of the Central Party, aims to establish a powerful basis for good and strong employment, and that the government's tax policy should motivate to create the conditions for innovation and to allow innovation to become a solid basis so that it will unite in the development that is truly needed in this rapid world of progress. Today, we were invited to a council meeting. There were guests from the Coalitions of Coalitionists and inventors and KNNWN. These are pioneers and inventors who count as high as 400. I'm sorry to hear that they have not been supported. They sent a message to the budget committee asking for 2.5 million to support some kind of operation, but, as the situation today, everything is being done in volunteer work. I hope this will be revised by a financial committee and I encourage a financial committee to find the message from these bodies and revise their request. When we're talking about innovation, it's so important that the chain be continuous. I want to name all the schools, all the degrees, from high school to college. There are no degrees between those that are less important. In this regard, we must see to it that we add to the workers in the country. As members of the Central Party, we make adjustments to the budget bill, which is fully financed, thus not adding to the balance of the state funds. In this regard it is worth reminding that effectiveness should always be exercised in the management of public funds that are no other than public funds. Year after year the work of the management system in Iceland is growing and the costs it brings. This cost is paid by taxpayers, and as a result, taxpayers need to reduce burdensome regulations and make sure that their stalls do not grow any further. In the case of the workforce, it is important to remember that many have lost their job for the past few years. As noted in Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin's minority in the budgetary committee, there are now some 7,000 people without employment and an increase of 2,700 in one year. Under such circumstances, it is important that governments do their part, e.g. by lowering the insurance bill. We're here on the country with the second largest taxes on an enterprise, second-large taxes in the North countries, after Norway, and we realize that high insurance costs are the worst in companies where pay and pay paid are a large part of their expenses. It is, in fact, strange that governments did not contribute or contribute to reducing the insurance price even more than the small decrease reported, especially in view of the fact that the company has had to cancel a number of people in the past eight years. I also want to discuss the circumstances of nurses in the country where they are among the most important homes in the country. It does not add to their promises to strengthen their foundation of activity, and to put it frankly, it can be said that for now their business is in total chaos. This was made clear at a hearing held at the Hotel Natura yesterday and then. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson used to shave. I am increasingly aware that at the same time, we would like to expand our ministry in people's homes so that they can be more comfortable living at home. I think these operations need to be performed at the same time, but it doesn't look like anything's going on there either. We face the fact that there seems to be no conversation between the nurses' homes and Iceland's health insurance, but the cross contract between that was completed at the end of 2018 when health insurance changed its one - sided methodology to finance. It is a very reprehensible decision, and kind of surprising, a decision made in the absence of discussions with nursing homes, social services organizations, or communities, some of which run these homes. The budget of the Management Board 2020-2024 shows that the largest public funds project in relation to the nursing and rehabilitation sector is an effort involved in increasing the number of nurses, both by rebuilding older space and by building new ones, i.e. building a new nursing home. It is clear that the space currently on the drawing table will not depend on what is needed. Thus, we need to go deep into the sewing of the nurses'financial bases, and even further research is needed to be done on the National Revision Reports, which have been published in the topic field. But it is difficult to see that, at the same time, nursing homes have been cut down. That is a rather striking fact when we need to be mindful as much as we can of older ones. In Birgir, the son of Þórarinsson, by permission of a president, says: ▪ Organizational organisations in welfare services have repeatedly pointed out the need to support nursing, residence, day-separation and rehabilitation practices. The world's most difficult area is a nursing home. It'll even come. This is because it is impossible to achieve the size prosperity achieved by the number of beds that are normally recognized in the capital area. To that end, we need to keep in mind that we would like people to serve in a nursing home in their home. I don't think we're going to move everyone to the southwest corner. It is important to improve the interests of older citizens and those who rely on pension pay. It's unannounced to be asked on social insurance benefits, and it's intolerable that a pensioner can't work without impairment because it has to be so that everyone can improve his benefit. In addition, it gives greater satisfaction to life, where social factors play a key role. Those who fail in a job market experience many who do not share in the community. Everyone wants to be part of a community, and everybody wants to contribute to the community, they can, and I think that's a very important point to keep in mind. Older citizens and those who rely on pension pay are still waiting for justice, as we have often heard. Deforestation continues to affect people and has a negative effect, mild said, on the mental and physical health of people. We in the Central Party focus on changing the system, which does nothing more than discourage people from participating in social activities. Older ones have given up their life's work and deserve to live in good standing and security. We want pensioners to be enabled to improve their interests with increased work without having to endure impairment above. And that will not have a negative impact on the wealth of the state. Most people appreciate the importance of Landspiration. A land hospital is also the largest health center in the country. At the hospital, professional personnel work hard and often under difficult circumstances. We are faced with a complex problem at a land hospital, and it has been noted that there are people who should rightly be allowed to live in nursing homes. Also, the hospital's design problems are often discussed. I'm glad, then, that Iceland's University plans to make use of all his nurses that he hasn't done before. It would also have been a step in raising funds for the University of Akureyri so that the school could receive more nurses. A very large number applied for nursing studies but did not get room. In addition, it might have been suggested to strengthen especially those schools that offer hospital study. We know that there is a shortage in these professions, and in such circumstances an unusual action must be taken. Bear in mind that the Landspians are both an emergency hospital and a local hospital, and I wondered if it would be right for me to bring these units together. The hospital is too big. It's overcrowded, etc. One thing is clear, that the pressures of the health system will continue to increase over the next few years and even decades, and my knowledge needs to be given to more people at the table. I mention independent medical professionals, physical therapists, psychologists, and others with medical expertise. Many of these parties do not negotiate, and there is no solution. Hospital lists are increasing, particularly hospital waiting lists, and surgeons have expressed concern about the situation. Therefore, in the Middle East, we have emphasized the challenge, and we have an arrangement to increase the contribution to nursing homes in order to free the seemingly stable stopper. It doesn't mean putting more money in the hospital, it takes some kind of different action, and that's why we're doing it. Health Ministry policy is to promote health care as the first stop for those in need of service. In Birgir, the son of Þórarinsson, our senator on the budget board, says, by permission of a president: ▪ The health - care directors in the country came to a meeting of the Gaming Committee. In their case, it was stated that the stocks still need to be funded at least 800,900 billion. K. This year, as discussed at a meeting with a budget committee in 2017 so that they can carry out the required ministry. Therefore, we propose a transition to the bill that 250 million people will be put to health institutions in the country to meet the greatest challenges. I'm thinking the model needs it all over again. I'm on the verge of not spreading the pressure. This tells me that I can think of a problem faced by ambulances, but the problem is gone. The potential for pensioners in a general labour market needs to be strengthened, and in this country, they have less employment initiative than in the countries we compare with, and the range of recruitments is much smaller. Many countries have been able to revise their systems with the goal of enabling pensioners to do their job. That my knowledge is that it should be the first step by the government to create jobs so that people can do their part. We see that the number of pensioners will increase, so we need to take action. This system's ability to perform a so - called professional assessment has been fraught with the idea that people need to be evaluated first, to see if they can do these jobs. I think it's starting to fall on the wrong end. I see the way so that I can start working. In fact, it is possible to advertise for participants, take a sort of test project, and see step - by - step how it is done because we need to be careful. We would like to catch everyone we have to catch. This, of course, must be done in cooperation with the government and with those on the market. Our proposal, then, is to promote a work agency that has national work posts and has the expertise needed. The opportunity for a job should be real, and the way to work should be effective and important for those who want and have the ability to be at work. To say this, I am especially concerned with those who suffer from mental illness, and finally, I just want to mention that I am quite content to see that Grófin, a mental - health center is being provided for the support of its activities. About 60 people make use of the work each month, and an average of 18 people arrive at the central station each day. You could say that Grófin is an answer to a similar operation and goes by The Cathedral, the Geysi, the role site of Iceland's Bat School, and the Pita Association and the Bergins of ◯ Headspace. What a joy it is to see that this is now published!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u65	V.E.G. President. First of all, I want to express my joy in this discussion because it has been rich and has been perturbing in it. I compare this with the last two financial talks that have been extremely superficial. Since no object could be thrown into place, it is a special pleasure to have 40 minutes in the first place to cover this budget and its emphasis. According to this, I would like to say that Generalis's appearance is that the budget is natural in a swamp film. It doesn't in itself matter whether you're in a government or in a government, if you're in a government, if you're in some other power of authority, if you've been handing over the budget and the money power of the government system that makes these financial laws go away. This power has been delivered there. In itself, and I admit to having participated in, one of the largest political advancements to the office system consisted of the law on public finances. Even if we burn into the spirit for some matter, an urgent and urgent project, there is no chance that it will pass through, not even a single one. Nevertheless, the natural tendency is to put together suggestions to try to improve this flat bill. This bill is extremely flat, Mr. President. It is very in the spirit of the way the government is composed, that the two powerful chairs of the government can and must be transformed into one another, i.e. The independent party is becoming a tax-happy class that was left green and that has always been. It prepares for the Marxic health system, which makes cold water flow between your skin and your skin. That's the Independence Party. Left green, on the other hand, by taking part in a soldier of previously unknown size for ten years and by building up military power. It's not that I'm fucking with it, it's a good defense project. Then there is the third group, which is only a small part and slow down, as it has been since the establishment of this government and is now dead. [[Up front.]] I can hear a poem, but I can't hear what it is. What I was going to say now is that the priorities of this budget bill, which I say again, are very flat, but it seems natural that government officials have had quite a headset when it was composed. This shows you this rearranged priorities. Because I was saying what the Independence Party has become, I also say that left green resorts to delaying the use of righteousness once again for those mentioned among the hands. I'm going over this at random, Mr. President, and I hope I'm sorry because I still have plenty of time. One of the measures now being taken is to withdraw 3 billion from the new construction of the Land Hospital. This is called laterage, but is a natural delay. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It's a new word. I can still hear a poem, but I can't hear what it is. They're dressing the canals at a caramel store, it's a caramel letter, so it looks better. It is simple to avoid being deceived by it. At the same time as this happens, e.g. that the land hospital does not get enough money for its business, being assigned to the hospital every day, a project that was well handled before. The latest example is a series of tasks torn from the Cancer Society and placed in an overcrowded Land Hospital to extend a waiting list. Since I mention the Land Hospital, we can also mention that no matter how we handle our money, it doesn't matter. The government and the left green don't care what we do with money. That's why we're sending people into foreign replacement operations. In this respect, the Independence Party, as we are glad to receive a direct currency - it is paying twice as much for replacement operations as we have to do because political civilism is not possible to negotiate with a company upstairs in the seasons that could do this and do, use proben, 150 operations a year for those who have given up on the wait. Left greens and their health ministers managed very quickly - no Minister of Independence has succeeded, so I know that I will create double the health system in Iceland in as soon as the left-green health minister has succeeded. So I still mention the Independence Party blessed by himself that he is in the same gear as left green, when he sees a group of people seeing him as a tax stock. The rest of us see only a group of people, but the Independence Party has now joined the left - green team when he sees a group of people seeing him as a tax collector. Then you start thinking, " How can we pick some more of this tax stock? ' Pencil tax has been invented, imagine, plough tax, and this is to be encouraging, Mr. President. I spoke to a man who works in a big company who has had significant results in reducing the waste and garbage leaving that company. By starting classing, the company had 60% success during the first year. Why? Because they were interested. 140 tons of waste will fall into this company. They are now in a position to leave the company in 24% and because of the way they class them, they can sell parts of the waste and part of the garbage. They also save. I asked this fine man how he likes to get the tax on the watch. Is that not encouraging? I asked. Nohei, he said, it's not encouraging, it's discouraging. This is going to cost a fortune for our country's home. Why is the capital area not more classified? This is because the city authorities have failed to enable people to classize. Why not think before they throw in such taxes that they don't know what they're going to do? No, they're just gonna throw it in the pit. This is no financial administration. There has been significant results, e.g. of Stykisholmi, in the category of garbage. Why don't people just take time and get into this? Why do people not give the city authorities - although they need a long time to turn around, but all is well - an opportunity to allow them to classify more? Let us note that much more of the household waste is organic and is therefore suitable for molts. This is not what left green wants to do. With what? The members of the Central Party. paritaprevir During the day, Hjaltason Gauti undranged to explore the potential and the practicality of building high - tech dumps. It fell on rocky soil by the wind. Councilmen left green, they want to export our pollution. They didn't want us to be burning garbage here because it would come out of the air, but they didn't care if they carried it into the middle of America and let them breathe it, even if they carried out the garbage and the pollution. These are the measures that the left green now offers in the environment, apart from attacking the part of the homes that owns a private car and scraping about. 6◯8% of the emissions and taxes of that group completely killed. We're going into the energy exchange that they call it. We don't know what it's like to dump electric cars when it comes to it. Maybe we'll move a teamup out to Africa, just like we've done with our phones. Then we can move the pollution out. It will make the left green happy to be able to do that. But we do not look far ahead, and people are constantly speculating on some of the secondary things, wanting to ban plastic bags, which are 1% of the available garbage but find at least 250,000 tons to be buried. That's not the point, I'm not talking about burning it. It's just not in the picture. They could do that for us, but, of course, Dan, Sweden, and the Germans see a chance to burn garbage. It is a heat source, energy source, and if we look beyond 101 and the largest areas in the country do not have all the areas of our luxury in Iceland to have access to warm, cheap water, unfortunately. That's why I feel somehow, as I said earlier, that the dominant elements of the government bring out the worst in one another. I have spoken to the middle class for the need to increase the number of resources in nursing homes. They've certainly built some of them, but they're not quite enough. One of the newest nursing homes ever built in Iceland, which is located in my home area, is kind of new because people are not available to work there. The priorities of those who run the house are not exactly the same - because we've talked a lot about it in the council, including the leaders and supporters of the government, even though they're not doing so, that the Landspians need more money to run. That's right, but you can't buy everything for money. A few days ago, we received a memo from Iceland's Medical Association on why it is so hard to get people to work at the Land Hospital. Money has little to do with it, Mr. President, so I'm going to repeat what I said from this public speaker the other day: The problem of a land hospital is a management hospital. It also means that we are not using handmade funds properly. We all know that money can be taken all the time, that can be done, I don't talk about in a demanding business like the hospital's business. Why, then, do people not set priorities? For example, why do people not have to expand their share of responsibilities? telecommunications, pedestrians, private cartels, also negotiate the increase in numbers going to the nearby hospitals and to Akureyri where there is a success, thank you, very bearable? In these areas, the Lands Hospital of University, this careful institution, can focus on the difficult situations he needs and must attend as an emergency hospital, as the flagship of health care, i.e. the heart functions, the cancer surgery, etc. He can make the simpler operations go away and thus shorten a waiting list. Now it is quite clear, Mr. President, and will appear, unfortunately, that the latest action of the health minister, to take a check on the cancer community, i.e. breast and cervical examination, will extend the waiting list. This does not mean that the ministry will be less expensive or better, on the contrary. We've just come out of the condition that the ambulances in Iceland were having tea together. The first new ambulance won't be here until 10 months. But seriously, the situation was that we knew of one ambulance that we saw at the Red Cross the other day, which was held together with a film to make him hang out. It's an ambulance in the area that's one of the biggest and most difficult to cross in Iceland. For two years, political cults have been forced to make a deal with the Red Cross. He was finally made the other day, but he had been able to give it to the Red Cross for his birthday, in view of the fact that 90 years since he started driving ambulances, to rip them off, without someone else being found to drive them out. Mr. President. It's so awful it can't be described. This is what an independent party and a forwarding party get into. It's amazing. I'm not going to be so positive the whole time in this talk, I'm going to be even more positive, and I'm going to review the main groups of me. We suggest adjustments, which are carefully implemented and well-finished. You can compare them with other changes made here and cost any 000, i.e. They're all in some lowlife, a billion here, half here, two there, and something like that. It's not like this for us. Here are precise numbers that have fallen to benefit. So I start reading, we suggest a general law order gets 300 million. K. ... inexpensives. If this is approved, it will likely be to repair any condition that is particularly bad in the capital area. Still 80 police officers are missing just to get into the same condition that was at the turn of the century. This means that police response in the capital area is unacceptable. The additions I don't remember have taken place in the past two years have been aimed at increasing the number of police officers who monitor Internet crime and computer crime. That's a good price, but they don't make calls, Mr. President. They will not respond to assault in some part of the area. As I have done many times over the years, the food of the police in the capital area has grown to such an extent that the number of people making calls is much lower than it was. This increases the risk of police injuries that have certainly been reported; people have suffered far more because we are sending fewer police officers and women than we were in previous harsh calls. Nor do humans seem to realize that one day's stand is costing 5.5 positions. It seems that people don't realize that. Therefore, because of the expensive cost of day - to - day service, the police are expensive. You have to realize this. Also, see that the 80 positions I mentioned earlier are expected to deliver approximately 16 people on duty. I remember that there are two or three men in the middle of a week on night shift at the capital station to handle services for Kopavog and Breinholt. Who knows that's not going to work? I think we've been very lucky that we haven't made a situation here much worse than we have. We suggest the capacity to be dropped, 400 million, i.e. The idea of government making all the media media media media. That's a very bad idea. We've run a Kingdom Media in Iceland since 1930. In 1930, it was a great idea, but now it's 2019. We have a company, a flow band, a blog, and a information system all over everything we don't need to be a state driver, no more than we want. I have also pointed out it from this public address, and I'm going to do it once more, that men have talked a lot about the complete separation of state and church. I'd love to talk about segregation of state and VOLV. I'd like to put up with the idea that may only be a private idea now but I'll bet it's a little later that gets more feathers and more flights, the idea of allowing people to choose what they do today. They remember that we can take the parish fees and say we want to contribute them to the Association Society, Civilization or University of Iceland. That's very good. Why don't we let people do this with the annual bill of RUS, park it in the hour, Radio History, or whatever? Why not? It is claimed that the government radio will have tremendous trust that it will, but it would be evident if we opened this door how many people would still choose to pay their annual fees to the State Radio as they have always done. As it is now, as one person knows, there is only one way out of RUSH. We can tell ourselves from the National Church, but there's only one way out of RUSB, and it's down to six feet. It's different. You don't get out of there. The middle party suggests 100 million. K. will be added to the mental health care of Lands Hospital ◯ University hospital and 5,000. No, that's 100 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A senator, and as a result of a special discussion about the mental health of young people, especially those with addictions, the following day, all were very positive. Today, members of the Parliament have the opportunity to test the sincerity of the will that was presented here during the day to resolve these issues. Now there's a chance of turning it in a positive direction, i.e. by strengthening the mental health field of the Land Hospital. We suggest that the economy system will be set up at Iceland's Ministry on a level of 1,100 million. It's very much the spirit we've been talking about, that we want to subtract. This is a very logical step, cutting down the booth with a practical requirements. The government in Iceland has been blown out over the last few years, including The Independence Party watch. I don't think it's been a lot since then, so we want it to be made up. In addition, we'd like to submit a economy requirement for the union of Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC. They agreed to go on this project, and they're going to create a government agency of 300 people, which is a money bank, and then there's gonna be a branch of the Huns Bank. I'll admit that I'm an odd part of them, but if they're determined, we'll probably find that making a profit of 350 million. We suggest that a nursing home be given money because of a business problem I mentioned earlier. They cannot be manned. Because this nursing home is extremely difficult to run, we suggest an additional 800 million will be spent on this problem. We also recommend 30 million healthy elderly ones. The elderly's health may be one of the best precautions we have, except for what we also do as a natural person, that the professional income of the elderly will not dishonor pension incomes. It may also be the best health that can be offered because it prevents depression and isolation and allows people to remain active longer in society. It allows people to be with them, to use their abilities, experience, and knowledge. True, it is shameful how we have associated with this group in the past few years. We Middle-class people have suggested other things in this regard, we have suggested, for example. Government employees can work to 73 years if they choose. What do we do today? Government workers are almost thrown out in the month after they become 70 years old and, in some cases, these are people, hard-tempered people with great experience, made contractors, and for the administration of the government, they can't work in unless there's another 100,000 call, and then they'll be cut. I must admit, Mr. President, I do not understand this matter. I don't want to understand it because there's such an obvious benefit of doing this. The need to stand up in this discourse over and over again and with these simple truths is quite different. It's quite remarkable that by not allowing sensibilities to earn money without ripping it off over 100,000 bucks, they are paying taxes. I'm now looking at the chairman of a legal committee that I know is a smart enough man. I don't understand why this can't go through here. I can't get it for my little life. Now it's a man's chance to do this. We suggest the fall from a 10% rise in carbon charge of what I said before. Why are we going to chase after people and after the things that are about to happen to us? At the same time, people cannot agree on who's going to pay land transfers in the country's main ports for cruise ships. I checked the other day that the biggest ship that came, e.g. To the city of Reykjavík in the summer, a ship that covers 6500 persons when there are many people, i.e. of passengers and crew, it's like a fairly large rural society in Iceland. And how does it get electricity? Yeah, that's three 21,000 horsepower diesels on board. How many cars would there be in that, Mr. President? I'm not that quick to calculate, but I think that would be a perfect reason to look into it. The cost of carbon is estimated to be on cars that spend 32 to 7 liters per hundred. We suggest that the Lands Bank and Hafnar Square be sold. I guess that's about 2 billion bucks. They say, "This is not the right scene. " All right, then, we'll just make a pact proposal to direct it to the stockholders of the stock, the entourage 98.3998.7% of the Lands Bank, that this will be done. Why in the world at a government agency, a government company, even though this name is highly highly known today, to base headquarters on the most expensive property in the country and too large a headquarters? It has been shown that a portion of this is to be rented out. It's supposed to cost 9 billion. Let's sell it the way it is. I already said that before I say it again. I was at a really nice meeting in Breiðholti the other day, and the Breinhians said, "We want government agencies to be moved to the Breiðholt." I said, "You know what, I'm willing to take the Lands Bank up to Breinholt." And I still am. I'm willing to submit a law bill about it if it turns out that the National Bank headquarters is in Breiðholt. They have at least not to be on the most expensive property in the country off the dock. We're good to go. We think we're going to have 250 million. K. to the health institutions of the country. Because the Landspians are so much, they need so much, they take on so much, we sometimes feel that health agencies in the country are lost. That is why we want to keep them in many ways in the same troublemaker as the Landsaver. That's why we suggest that they get more money. We suggest deforestation, by means of carbon equations, will be increased by 30 million. K. It's natural to be sure, and humans know that if we want to be effective in carbon balance, and if we want to succeed in bringing the land equal to carbon, we are deforestation one of the best ways to do that. We propose that the administration board be suspended. It saves about 550 million. K. This allows people to look at the way that this building is drawn and not fit into the street image that is on Banka Street again. However, there is another story. We suggest that customs, especially drug control and national security, be increased by the allocation of 250 million (U.S.) contributions. As everyone knows, we are struggling with an enormous problem related to drugs. We have also entered the firing line of international criminal organizations that bring more drugs, especially heavy substances, but we have seen for a very long time. We can also see how these substances come to the country that they are now trying to get their feet on the market of Iceland's drug market. We want to protect ourselves from this as much as we can, but it's not just about drugs, it's about general security on a border that's going to take over. That's why we do it. We recommend that insurance be dropped by 0.25%. Like other Americans, we have been waiting for the government to cut off insurance, but it has not fallen its weight. She has drawn her feet in like so many others. This will cost $2 billion. which are the sum of the value of the Land Bank. Of course, it will contribute specifically to small companies, small companies and mediumsizeds, to the reduction of the insurance bill in this way. In contrast, it will stimulate economic growth here. It looks like a recession, and the government fund is in a corner because plans were made that were made a year ago. However, there is another story. So we suggest that the insurance fee be reduced in this respect and believe that it will be the key to promoting SMEs and promoting economic growth. We suggest the loss of a valuable tax price onletting environmentally friendly cars is 60 billion. K. As this proposal is established on the part of the government, it allows for cheating. It offers because it is not defined in the motion of an environmentally friendly car. If I was renting cars, I'd just say, "Hey, they're all environmentally friendly, I want a discount for all of them. That's what it's all about. There's 60 million people hanging on this thing that's natural just a drop in the ocean. Still, we want to save these 60 million because some day the drop will turn into a river. We suggest two things about disability and all the cohesiveness that this government has - I mentioned earlier that the Independence Party is willing to raise taxes here as seldom as before and that's left green to delay the penalties being granted their corrections. They are willing to delay it, and they are now holding back for two years of complete justice. We suggest that support be put on the arrival of the employment agency, which costs the government budget of 200 million. It will enable microorganisms to promote themselves and take an active part, earn extra power, and thus gain opportunities and full lives. In addition, we propose an increase in the cost market of disability and the protection of 325 billion. K., both that disability can have access to supportive work and that those who can fall into such a category will not be punished by the immediate loss of their income. These are just the suggestions offered by the Central Party at 2nd. ... abundant. It is worst that the man who was interested in knowing the cost has left the hall, but this will cost 4,660 million. K. That's our opinion. In turn, these 17 teams could be approved to achieve the results that I have described here in very few words. Of course, we hope that our power of reason will control 2nd. the budget and the acceptance of these suggestions. As they are installed and as their groundworks are, it will not change the circulation of the state funds to the worse in any way, on the contrary, as we have noted. Just making it possible for older people to work as they can, and choosing to do good for all, both for them, for a wealth of government, for all. Mr. President. I see my time is getting away from me. He's been gone for a while, so I've got to let my case go for a while. I may come back and add to what was lacking in this talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u66	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father reviewed the motions of the Middle Party and came in many places. I'm just gonna come in on a few things, mainly to get a reason. A senator helps with what he was in some doubt. First, insurance costs are to be dropped in order to be served. Second, there was what. A senator has doubts about the administration and the presence of the council and what to do. Legal committees to the budget and budget process. I think we should speak with caution when we have such judgments. I'm just going to do one thing in this context. A review of state finance policy was very effective. A legal committee provides more space than was intended. It is very helpful in these circumstances. There needs to be a balance between the budget, government policy and the work of the Generals. Here's just one example. Then we have to look at it in the process. Many of the proposals under budget are supported by a financial program. I could refer to the Federal Bank's financial affairs, and more than the International Cash Fund says that relaxation in the maintenance of government funds and a fall in direction interest earlier in the year was the right economy response on the part of the government and softened the economy, that the government's economic response was at its right and quick. AGS reports that the support of an economic and credibility of an economist has made this crisis more milder than ever so as to be maintained, sharper. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. He does not need to convince the person mentioned here the need to lower the management rate. This one has been speaking for six years, most of it to deaf ears. However, it is not a World Parliament, a budget or anything like that that that makes the decision, does Iceland's Secret Bank. It's very good, though, if the budget, finance, and the Ministry as such, the highest. Minister, has had some benefit in the fact that the zebra finally made the right decisions. It's very good to have a round of applause from the International Cash Fund, the fine funds, but I'm still going to say that I'm a little bit aggravated the other day when his deputies said, "Well, now there's plenty to do in the interest of growth reduction. In spite of all 3%, the fruit of control is 3%. I don't want to quote such an old trend that took place in Norway, where the Norwegians had to contend with considerable inflation. They fell very fast, very steep, and in short, they have not been in an inflation situation since then. It was found that very dramatic and very dramatic - I'm sorry, Mr. President - the decrease in operating growth had a striking effect on the decline in in in inflation. However, I will not take back my statement that the influence of Generalis on the budget is not as great as I would have considered desirable. Government policy, says why. Senator - I have to come back in a minute and finish that sentence. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's a pleasure to see the loss of the steering growth. I know why. A senator has fought for it and has talked about it, and it would have been desirable to think that this shrinking process had taken place more quickly and earlier. However, what a joy it is to see that it has been happening, and it is in harmony with a government policy that is designed to provide resistance in the economy! What a joy it is to see that, now that it has not been so often, the money policy - just right by it! Senator, we have an independent money policy - working on a political agenda. There are some new times and changed times, and in the context of a moderate increase in pay and in the contract of life. We see context in this. I came up here because I know why. A senator is very excited and happy to see, if I understood him correctly, the Land Hospital will rise at the Ring Road. He was deeply concerned that there was a correct proposal, about 3,500 million. K. I just want to think that it's because it's a side step that explains, in fact, of practical action in the prevention and natural working of the treatment core, taking into account the current contract. It has been decided to complete the foundation of the house before the next building developer is in place. This offset means that the accumulation of the treatment core and other work projects is secondary between 2020 and 2021. I know why. A senator knows the law, and he knows that we're not giving out money if they don't make use of the year. This is the plan. Still, I can be happy. A senator by assuming that the treatment core will be ready for the 2024 construction program, according to the plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u69	Mr. President. There we go. A senator entered an interesting point because if our Middle Class suggestions to build a new hospital in a better place had been taken into consideration, we would not have had to delay the task. This hot concrete will be there for the next 200 years, and we haven't bitten off the needle with the way transportation will be done around this hospital. Men mentioned the city line, and I asked an employee of Lands Hospital ▪ College Ohf. the number of patients expected with the city line. I didn't get the answer, because it's just nonsense, and it's just fine that it's happening right now. It needs to be later, or a delay, as we call it in Icelandic, because of the wrongness of the local setting. We knew this all along and have said it many times, but unfortunately, they did not listen. Of course, people will see, unfortunately, when this hospital is further built up in this insane place - we are burying 100 billion in the Hydromese -- how much more reasonable the suggestions of our middle-class people were about building the hospital in a better place, for example. Up on the people who are now going to close by selling it land. The 10 months finance minister of the year destroyed the Vifil position. If they had been listening to the Middle Class in the past, they would not have been in the process of cutting down some of the streets around this big project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u70	Mr. President. We'll talk here at 2nd. For the next year, I'd like to step aside to some of the grammatical sectors of my case and take for a special team. I go far and wide, maybe not very organized, but I'll discuss it in the big context and then some things. Much has been said about the matter. Senators yesterday and today, although I must admit that I have not listened to the entire discussion. There are some things I especially want to come to. First, I'd like to point out that the Central Party has 17 different options for the bill, and they're fully funded, i.e. We take care of money and expenses. We offer increased funding for law enforcement and customs, and I'll take some words later on. We also contribute additional funds to nursing homes because of business problems. I'm just going to step on that. We contribute a little more funding to health institutions in the country, we contribute a little more money to forestry, and I will come to that in my speech. Also, we contribute to the growth of the markets and to the detriment of pensions and employment income. I'm going to go wide and start my talk with public remarks. Government plans for the last year have been marked by far more optimistic than material has ever been, and they are now culminating in human affairs. It was relied on for continued constant fluctuations, even when signs of increased uncertainty and evidence of a decrease in economic growth were raised. After a long economic growth, economic growth is now expected to bring about no more economic growth in the year that goes up slowly next year. Proliferation forecasts are lower than they have been, and it is important to put the sails into the government's affairs. This, in turn, requires that now more than ever to set Kingdom priorities. This decrease in economic growth is reflected in the financial bill, and it is now up to 10 billion dollars in government funds. ... turnup next year. The central category has stressed that governments provide the basis for strong employment, prosperity, and general prosperity. The government's policy on the tax issues is to include the motivation of companies to increase staff and improve their terms, as well as the conditions for innovation and further economic investments. The middle class puts emphasis on simplifying the operating system and reducing the booth rather than on adding to it. All such measures reduce the burden of industry and the homes of the people of the country. There must be a requirement for normal efficiency and management in all public functions. In view of economic growth, much is to be considered, with the nation's highest exports. In recent years, we have observed unprecedented growth in tourism, which has created a large part of the population's income. There is evidence to suggest that there is no reference to calm, and the failure of a airline was a significant blow in the current year. Hope is that this will not result in prolonged contractions. It is noteworthy that this nation's largest source of income in the past years receives reduced donations according to this bill, and the cutoff by more than 10%. Then there was hairy deficiency during the year, and it was not just a blow for a government fund; it was no less a blow for many communities, where hairy fishing is a major part of their local life. This also refers to lobster fishing, which has been greatly attracted in recent years and is hardly a tenth of what they were ten years ago. All these things I mentioned, fewer tourists, less hairy fish, less lobster fishing, less income for the government's funds, so we need to act. The central category feels that the response should be determined by reducing the activity of the public system. You can't see it in the budget bill. Mr. President. I'm going to go from one to another in my speech. I'm going to impregnate in the infamous delinquency that pensioners can fight every day. They are designed to make it possible for pensioners to feel as if they were able to tolerate the reductions in social security far beyond what might be considered normal. The global security system that is at any point run by the need to rely on the pension payment of the people who have worked hard for their rights is a system that needs a major review. The original thought behind the pension system was not to rule out the individual social security rights but to come in additional ways. People won in the right way with their jobs, but now it's totally turned to their heads. It must be the rivalry of all of us to encourage the survival instinct of people who are all in the blood. If the pensioners want and can win and earn modest incomes on the state, they will not cut down their pension income money beyond their regular tax returns. It is not acceptable to prevent pensioners from making a few incomes without being impaired in their backs and backs. It is also about quality of life, the quality of life of older ones. Quality of life includes This means that older ones get more out among people, enjoy association, and find themselves able to do something. Mr. President. It seems that the government has a special interest in laying on new taxes that are supposed to have something different from what taxes have generally had so far. I've mentioned those nice taxes, for they're supposed to give them a special and nice experience when they're reassigned. These are the so - called green taxes and taxes that are supposed to change behavior and are a special favorite of the governments of these days. I'll say, for example, the carbon and the sugar tax. By the way, Mr. President, how does it go to eliminate the taxes placed after a collapse, the 100 taxes considered to be an example of a good left government flying around here in 2009 to be in charge of the year 2009-2013? How's that working out for you? Or is this just a clean addition that we're looking at here? They seem relatively few of their fronts, and this government seems to be on the same route. The budget is planned to add new taxes because of the cost of waste due to 1.5 billion dollars. increase in income next year and more later, when the income will be fully implemented. Farmers and watch posts have expressed concern over the fact that taxes on the population no matter how well they do their job of sorting waste. The tax was to be implemented for years, and a company was to collect garbage. Waste has severely criticized the planned tax on the subject, and the rural communities complain of lack of communication. It seems obvious that the purpose of this tax is not environmental protection or an increase in recycling or recycling, and the purpose does not appear to be to reduce waste, as becoming tax is an inadequate control tool. In neighboring countries, the city's average taxation is estimated to be less than five k. but 4.5 k. if the highest tax is excluded. However, this was planned for taxation to be 15 K. a kilogram, which meant a 62% increase in prices in village. It is therefore a special reason to rejoice that in the government's transitional proposals from the pressures of taxation and to realize that this new tax system is suspended, at least For a while. These ideas on fiscal taxes raise some questions, including about who handles the garbage. It's the locals. Will the Kingdom, then, help them with this taxation? Who does the tax hit? People and companies in the country. Who's growling? Who handles the watch? Who's paying for the guards? What will be the effect of this tax? A few of them. Councilmen have foretold that this would reduce the price. What, then, are people to do with their garbage? This could lead to some increase in the fact that people simply dispose of garbage in undesirable places. Is that what we're asking for? The government had no suggestions on what to defend this money. There's no suggestion, it's just taxation. I would have thought that if such taxes were to be laid, it would be to facilitate the processing of this waste, classification, recycling, and incineration. I proposed earlier in the fall of a proposal to make a resolution that the practicality of building a high - tech dump here in the country would be like the news of most of our neighboring countries where garbage is burned and used for electricity and heat production. No matter what we're going to use in the predictable future, there will always be some waste left to burn. Since plastic is really nothing but beaten oil, burning plastics and other wastes is really the same as burning oil. Why should we not consider how practical it is to build waste in accordance with the highest demand for pollution, to deliver heat and electricity, and to dispose of waste? No, they saw various baits on that proposal. They may think that there is so much to be replaced and regrouped. The people I've been talking to and learning about in these matters don't think they're at all. We have 250,000 tons of garbage a year. How much do recycling reduces that? 10%? 20%? There is a limit on how low we can go, so we always have to burn something unless we want to move it abroad. I heard from some members of the council discussing this matter that it was extremely practical to sail on ships that blow out greenhouse gases across the sea and burn them elsewhere. However, it is not less polluted to burn it than it was in Iceland, so I am surprised by the response of the senators to this proposal, and I think it might be better to examine the matter carefully and determine if it is practical. It's an expensive project, but we can become self-sustaining with our resources. Let's not get wasted. Let's take care of our own waste. Mr. President. The nursing home in the country is one of the most important foundations of the Icelandic welfare system. The government has not kept up with the government's plans for strengthening the base of nursing homes and daily training. Since its start, the government has consistently reduced contributions to nursing homes, which are generally very heavy. At 2018, a nursing home contract and Iceland's health insurance ran out when health insurance changed its methodology to finance. The decision of Iceland's Medical Insurance was made without a single discussion in nursing homes, corporate partnerships in welfare services and the Union of Icelandic rural society. The central Party feels that there is a real problem with the world's nursing homes and makes adjustments to the budget for a special addition to nursing homes up to 800 million. K. to correct and address the urgent needs of the nursing homes. The central category contributes to the development of forestry by about 30 million. I'm going to discuss the forestry for a few minutes and a window first in a booklet published by Iceland's Management Board in July. which is promised to improve land use in terms of climate change and carry the subtitle a 'Collin binding' and a reduction in land emissions to the ◯. At a presentation in the Valley of Old age, the procedure was described to ensure that we were able to become a part - time land of carbon in the year 2040. This is where the government's work programme on climate change, and it says in opening words, by permission of a president: Iceland's government has proposed a climate action program. Its aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as possible and contribute to increasing carbon binding so that Iceland can live up to the objective of the Paris Convention to 2030 and meet the government's goals on the noncarbonization of the country in 2040. The brochure contains five actions on this subject, and one of them reads, with the permission of a president: - It's not that bad. It's a deforestation of new forests for carbon binding. The action involves growing forestry in order to increase carbon binding from the atmosphere. Later, the brochure says, with the permission of a president: In forest culture, significant amounts of carbon dioxide can be bound from the atmosphere and bound in wood and soil. The restoration of birch forests, land - healing forests, forest development, and timber are all examples of actions that bring benefits to climate as well as other goals that harmonize with government goals. A special point will be made that a new forest will be cultivated on a land that releases carbon from the soil. The share of forestry in major projects is expected to increase from 1,100 hectares a year to 2,300 hectares in 2022, with a total increase in carbon binding of about 33,000 tons CO 2-values in 2022. Foresting is being accomplished in cooperation with landowners, partners, businesses, rural areas, and other bodies. So many words, Mr. President. These are big plans. Woodforestation is to be increased by more than half in this year, 2018,2022. Then, in this beautiful brochure, we find that in the year 2022, there will be twice as many acres of freshforest as there are last year, 2,300 hectares. All of this is very beautiful and looks good on paper, but the fact is that while this beautiful text is written and released, governments reduce their contributions to wooding by less than 30 million and more, taking into account the various needs of the wood farmers to which they have enjoyed so far, up to 140 million. Mr. President, there's not a word here, Mr. President. We cannot increase carbon binding by deforestation and cut down contributions to the forest industry at the same time. It just doesn't work. Forests are and should be one of the most important opportunities in Iceland to put carbon out of the air and hence an important contribution to climate. I'm surprised that in total the budget is reduced by 144 million on the budget bill, taking into account the budgets of the past year and the promises given on the increase in funding due to carbon binding. It is clear, then, that the forest will not be able to do what it is designed to do with increased forestry. The cutoff to the forest is on the horizon, focusing on the importance of forestry when it comes to carbon binding. Forests create a number of jobs in the country for the future, mainly in rural areas, and production from Icelandic forests saves valuable currency. Despite changes in economic growth, the number of tourists, or the financial failures, the forest does not go anywhere. He lies and grows to the long future and creates employment for future generations. The forest provides shelter and provides conditions for many other fruitful growth. New forestry reduces greenhouse gas emissions from broken land and binds carbon into soil. Smaller donations for short - term forestry have a serious impact on the development of growth stations that raise young plants needed so that efforts can begin in the structure proclaimed by the government itself. I'm not making this up, Mr. President. The government is proclaiming this, but then they reduce the donations. The amount of money is lacking to pay for plants that have already been negotiated for production. Smaller deforestation contributions mean longer less carbon binding in forests, which makes it impossible to keep promises of non-carbonization in 2040. This means longer-term lower wood products, fewer jobs in the processing of timber and more wood imports in the future. Only by using science and reasonism can we make real progress in the environment. An example of this is the expansion of forestry, and in view of the need for growth in forest plants. In this light, the central category proposes a change in the bill to raise the contribution to forestry by about 30 million. K. Finally, before I take my case on forestry, I want to point out those who have doubts about forestry and forestry binding to carbon that there are multiple binding opportunities of e.g. One size vs. birch. If the amount of land that goes under forests is growing, it may be only 1◯2% of the land needed to bind all emissions in Iceland from carbon when using the right type, i.e. Osp. We may not want to do so, but if we are going to use a Icelandic book, we may need 10 to20% of the country to bind the same amount. Reason must be guided when making decisions if we are to be a non-carbon country in the future. That's why I think it's important that we do research in this field, expand our new forest and continue on this course. It takes a few years to start a project like this, and it's going to slow down for a few years. That is why we suggest an increase in forestry can be made so that at least we can. ... keepyourheadinthisact. Of course, I wanted to see much more donations for this group of paintings, and I have already suggested in this chair that forestry be four times as much as the present plant. Mr. President. One of the changes the Central Party has made to this bill turns to the police and also to customs, where we offer additional contributions to this operation, law enforcement, and customs. We believe that there is a need to promote police law enforcement and police demonstrations and that the police have not been built at all after surgery after a collapse and, in fact, far from it. It is best to see the figures of a number of policemen based on answers at the highest level. The Minister of Justice we're asking from the one we've got here. That was the case with law enforcement officers in the whole of 692 in 2006. Earlier this year, 6,64, the number of people has decreased by nearly 30 in 13 years, as the population has increased by tens of thousands, the stream of tourists has increased in empires, and crime has become ever more complex and international. During all of this, police officials decrease their numbers with such talk that the police were promoted, and they do not mention that the police have increased according to population, police work, and large - scale number of tourists, or according to the advice of the police authorities themselves who considered it necessary for six, eight years ago to increase the number of police by more than 200. Since then, it has only been reduced. Therefore, in the Middle East, we suggest that 300 million more will be put beyond what is expected in the budget to the nine police agencies in the country, which would be useful in increasing visible and general law enforcement in the country, which, of course, has a significant preemptive value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u71	Mr. President. There are several points in a talk. A senator I would like to ask him to go a little better with me because I don't get it all. It may come first to the economy. I understood why. Not as much as a senator would have said at the beginning of his speech that this place, in the economy, was an important step in the affairs of the State and that it reduced the booth. I would have thought that then there was something in the sounds that ought to be cut down, but that's not really what it is. In his talk, a senator reviewed the changes made by the Central Party, and they go out preaching extra expenses for certainly other lawsuits, but they are done in the budget, but more expenses are done at a convention, and certainly by means of means of means of funding. I don't feel quite compatible with what they say, i.e. to cut back the state's business and reduce the fall, but at the same time, extra expenses are put in place. It sounds like a phrase to me. Why not just talk about other emphasis when it's really what I hear the media is talking about on the budget bill? I'd love to get some. A senator explained this better. Is he serious about this or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. She says that it looks like a fragler when I talk about bringing up the booth, bringing in a government business, and when I offer extra expenses for police and forestry, as mentioned in my speech. Because I was interested in what I talked about, I simply didn't have a comment that we too contribute 1,100 million. K. cuts for all the Council of Management, which is a 10% budget for budget management. That saves $1,100 million. There are other eco-efficiency requirements in this room that I'm not going to read; the suggestions are presented in Committee 2, a smaller section of the legal committee. I believe that we are consistent when we recommend that first the government's supreme government be implemented, i.e. The Ministry where the government's supreme government is, and we think it's a good start. Of course, we could have gone further, and we could have taken all the government's institutions and made some practical requirement for them. We feel better about our presentation starting at the top and suggesting that it be saved first instead of going down to individual institutions. I was the director of the Agency for many years, and we know that institutions are very different in terms of economy and management. Some may have saved for years and may not have been fair to make the same demands on them as to any other institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u73	Mr. President. I understand why. The senator, in effect, is not saying that it is important to bring together in the affairs of the State but that he wants only a way of managing a business. The Kingdom is far more than that, and the Kingdom sees far more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u74	It's the State, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u75	I'm the one who's asking the questions here. There is another question I would like to ask about the sale on the property of the Land Bank that is expected 2,000 million to be available. It cost the Bank of Lands 1,000 million to buy the property, but I assume the Central Party will take all the 2,000 million that he intends to get for the property into the government business. What does he see in his mind the 1,000 million slain by the National Bank? I want to know what this is all about because I don't feel like it's working out. Then, finally, I want to say here, because of what. A senator spoke a lot about forestry, that contributions to forestry are not being cut down. However, there is a change in where the funds are set. There is an increase in forestry, and on the outside there is a proposal from a greater portion of the legal committee to place just 28 million in forestry, so it simply does not resist the view that forestry is being cut down. I'd love to. A senator would answer the questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u76	Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Arjörn's Árnadóttir is very much concerned with the many questions that I have, and I don't know if I can answer them all. We also seek economic management in terms of the unity of the Federal Bank and the Food Administration and are actually surprised that governments do not take sides in such organizations as these, large institutions at the top of the pyramid of the Management System, that when these institutions are united, they will not be controlled by economic conditions. The bow blows out, and we're making this suggestion to reduce it. Of course, if we were in charge, we could go to individual institutions. She also spoke of other things, e.g. forestry. I am so happy if the majority of the items are going to increase their contributions to forestry, such as at the turn of the day. A senator came to, some 28 million people. I'm glad, but we're going to make 30 million if you don't realize that this is cutting out for forestry. I think it's going to have to do a lot better. We need to go into real jungles with trees that bind carbon with a much more powerful force than governments expect in their proposals for agriculture and forestry. With regard to the Bank of Lands and the property sales there, I'd like to say that the weight prices downtown have increased dramatically. They've drawn something, and some projects have begun. The cost of property increases as something is done so that we do not feel that 2 billion for this area, as it appears today, can be obtained from the projects and measures it has taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u77	Mr. President. The Group's declarations have been very well introduced during the discussion. Senator and representative of the United States Group on a budget board, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson. He's also taken care of the Conspiracy's criticism of the bill as soon as he introduces the changes. The chairman of the Conspiracy, huh? paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, has also discussed them and the chairman of the welfare committee, why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. There is no need, therefore, for me to repeat a full list of all our proposals or information about the bill above my head, as has been done by the representatives of the United States. Our adaptability is to education, health, ideals, innovation, and climate. However, before discussing the service of the State to the Southnesians and the apathy of the government over that part of the country, I would like to discuss briefly the subject of taxes and income. It seems to me that the government would rather drive a government fund into a corner and press on to the welfare of the tax system rather than reasonable use it. The tax system serves two very important roles, making money to support the welfare community and funding infrastructure and, on the other hand, to counteract roughness. The level of possessions is growing very fast here on the land, and it shows figures that include: Secretary of finance has surrendered in response to a request from the chairman of the United Nations. On the contrary, the government does little or nothing to address that trend. To illustrate the trend, more than half of all the capital incomes created in Iceland last year went to the richest 5% of the population. But we in the United States want to level the game. The cost of fishing costs does not depend on the government's cost of research and control of the fish resources if the government's proposal for reduction of hunting costs as much as they have already done. At the start of the government, the cost of hunting was 11.2 billion, and now it contributes to 5 billion by 2020. Directors agreed to the highest proposal. A fishing minister to a year when we in the Union were severely critical, for it has been found to be a largely beneficial tool for making the largest projections, such as the Samherja, but not to the owners of the resource that is the Icelandic nation. The rate of hunting will be in accordance with the proposals of the government for a total of 5 billion next year, as I said earlier. To put these numbers in perspective, the profits of making companies were 27 billion dollars. last year, with $12.3 billion earnings. However, the State cost of research and surveillance was 5.1 billion. We in the United States want to raise the capital tax. He's here on land, and we want to disappear from the government's ideas of defending capital owners for inflation and changing the tax so that normal depositors don't have to pay their capital taxes, while the rest of them most pay their fair share. We want to put on a capital tax that affects property other than houses and both to earn money, but especially to balance the situation. We want to tighten tax control, especially because of tax control and the more efficient treatment of such cases will be effective. According to one estimate, tax fraud is at least 100 billion dollars. every year. So there is much to do. Sadly, our surveillance agencies have not been funded enough to oversee this. If we take the tax investigator in particular, there's a double operation in the system. If we were to change the law so that a tax investigator might also be a prosecutor, their research would not need to be repeated with the consequences we have seen, that it is too long until the result is too long, and then a case would fall. If we were to change it right away, we'd take it out of the system twice and increase the efficiency. We recommend higher carbon costs to counteract climate pressure, but we want them to be developed in cooperation with the unions and, in fact, we talk that any action we have to take in the next few years will be determined in a conversation with the union so that the equation and fairness in the measures that will be inevitable. Mr. President. We in the Union want the equation to be taken through a stepwise income tax system, but the aim is that the transfers, such as child support and growth improvements, will not be reduced. The house - to - house improvements are very strangely combined in the budget bill, and the growth reform system has just been destroyed by not changing the ratings so that it can over a decade, and then it automatically narrows down the system. According to ASI reports, 27,000 families have gone out of the interest system since 2013. The same is true of child - welfare. True, it has been added, but income restrictions are very cruel, so they do not work as effective in other North countries where child reforms are to match the status of children with those who do not have children. We want to change the systems and use the equations the state has. It is obvious that in communities where there is an even greater degree of equality, health and trust are even greater. It is desirable to be heading there, and we are expected to look to the Norwegian states when we want to change our taxes and reform systems, not west or search for role models at the World Bank. Mr. President. It was only about the revenue process that we consider to be effective and that is more than what we do with the changes we make in the budget. Now I want to discuss only the Southnes and the situation there. June 19th. was adopted at the General Assembly with all paid votes, as follows, by president's permission: The General concluded to commit the government to appoint a representative of rural communities on the Southnes and five head office experts, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Proconservation, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Health to implement a time-to-day strategy for promoting government services to citizens of Southnes and meeting major population growth there. The main effectiveness programme should include an assessment of: a. global impact of population growth in the region, b. the composition of the population and their different needs in terms of status, age, maternal parturition, etc., c. Whether local financial contributions have followed the development of urbanisation and population growth, d. influence downturn to tourism and fewer flights through Keflavík Airport on rural areas in the area. The staff submitted a report with results no later than December 1, 2018. Prime Minister introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. The proposal was approved on June 19th. It is fun to say that this group has not yet met. True, he has been appointed, but not one meeting has been held, and we are approaching mid - November. I take it as if, Mr. President, there's not much interest in looking specifically to the Southnes. The government, however, draws his feet to carry out what the General has agreed to. The fact is, however, that Southnes have increased from October 2014 to October 2019 by 30.8%, i.e. Between 6,000 and 7,000. But financial contributions have not been accompanied by this increase. It's like the highest. Government, commander. Ministers in the government and what. Councilmen, believe that this increase has nothing to say, that the people who have moved to Southnes will not be sick, injured like other people, etc. and do not need education, or ever-education, or law enforcement, to increase it or to add to public transportation. Mr. President. We Southerns can't accept this anymore. Is there anyone in this room who thinks that over 30% increase over a period of five years has no effect on society, and the state does not have to react? No. What the management departments have recently agreed on is based on population growth in 1% each year when money is determined to live up to its population service because there is some average population growth and there is no particular area that grows in that way. There's a huge amount of money missing in the medical service. It's literally money in this area. The police are also well-funded and the schools are educated. The same is true of public transportation, and in fact, the Southnes'communities have been in lawsuits and have been limited to the government because of them. Mr. President. I'm not going to have any more comments on the budget bill in this discussion. I found it very important to come up here to point out Southnes'position in which the increase has been the most important of all nationalities. But there is one thing to mention before I finish my case. It's not just that this situation exists, i.e. The huge growth that has been put to the fore in the southernnes, rather than unemployment, is the largest in the country. Today, there is unemployment in Smokeynestown, 6.5% in Southnesy Town, 6.4% and in the Vógs up to 5%. The least unemployment is in Grindavik in 2.7%. These figures are like this in the Southnes, while unemployment in the entire capital area is 3.8% and less than 3%, if you look at the country in particular. In addition, the combined population is special in the Southnes, with about 25% of its population from a foreign background. It's a combination of the population, it's a huge population growth, it's unemployment, and then it's a lack of service to the people who are extremely poor. Of course, we can use a variety of terms. The patience of the Southerns is gone completely. It boils on humans. People hoped that there might be some changes between discussions about the budget. It is acknowledged that the area needs to be viewed specifically by the synonym, but it is not expected to meet the situation, either in terms of population growth or the weight of the composition of the region. That's what I think, Mr. President, is a scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-13-31.u78	President. This has been an excellent discussion of the budget, and in many ways I think there's more to it than last discussion. It was noteworthy, though, that when the issue that has been best in the media today, the Samaritan language, somehow began to take root in the house, the interest in the budget was reduced for some reason, but it is as it goes. I'm not going through the budget much. I'm going to make a few adjustments made by the Central Party. Of course, putting together a budget is a challenge, and it is even more difficult when it is a recession; it is clear. Similarly, it is not pleasant for us to be confronted with a government fund fired with a tilt for the first time in seven years at least, seven, eight years, so it is smaller to the moulding, so to speak. As a result, we have stressed the importance of making adjustments in the way we offer suggestions to finance them and, naturally, are critical of how they are done. That's normal. There's nothing strange about it, but I'd still like to say that the suggestions and ideas are quite consistent with the discussions we've had over the past few months and a loss. This is something special in view of the fact that there is a considerable exchange between failure to respond in a way that one might have considered somewhat foreordained, such as. by canceling implementation of the Commission Building. It is normal to make the economy a regular requirement for the union of Sectors and the SEC. In itself, we should always make such a requirement when we meet with institutions, divisions, or fields, or what we call it, with the state slots, because one would expect that unity would produce some kind of economy on the operation. There's one particular thing I'd like to say. The members of the Central Party have done well over these adjustments, and perhaps they all need to be picked one more time, since they are here. However, if there was to be even more money to reduce the angle or finance of a project that we feel is necessary to finance without moving money between them, we are, of course, running a very expensive operation, e.g. The national radio that takes over 5 billion to heart, but of course it would be worth a substantial cut. Actually, it is time to reevaluate the role of the institution in the light of the changes in society that have made in the media and in the media in general and in the world. The government radio is an unnecessary agency, as it is operating today. So the funds could be used to make more work around them to produce materials. Maybe we'll go over it later. We also propose, and it has been shown that the property of which the Lander intends to build on price was sold. It is true that there is some length of arm between them, but we can, of course, respond in some way or in some other way. Of course, it is crazy, especially in contractions, that when we need money, we are looking at the fact that we are building a magnificent house. It is also very important that we keep looking at our priorities. I think the outcome would have been a little different if we had had a government that was on either ridge in politics. I suppose right men could have gone to lower taxes in hopes that their professional life would take over and put together in their government business. Likely, the left men would have raised taxes and tried to increase the charge of individuals and businesses to stop at the hole without minimizing services. It is not necessarily a law, however, to adjust your means of service. It may remind us of what has been mentioned here, that it seems that we could not achieve the most economical level in the health system by not using the technology and ability we have, for example. for private health care professionals, you might do much better. For example, we are also creating some problems, making ourselves a picture that has not been negotiated with expert doctors, physical therapists. There seems to be difficulty with the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health to solve problems involving private health care. I'm sorry, when it comes to operating the health system, privates are enormously important. Of course, it is possible to be careful in such a business that people and individuals have access to the necessary services. On this point, you're thinking a little bit because there are clearly opportunities to solve a number of problems. Another thing I think it's time to look at, and maybe we'll pick it up in some other way at the council is how the National Hospital seems to be able to take away all the money without properly realizing that you feel, how they are so arranged, why this constant need is there. Senators receive frequent information to them upon whom they bring up big eyes, e.g. for example, how to deal with such things as outlets and shopping, what demands are made when buying furniture, which are expensive instead of buying something that is good, not necessarily expensive. Maybe we'll go over it better. I think it's time for us to get down to some point where our important and expensive facility, which is one of the most important health institutions we have, and of course, we need to be able to stand and treat our staff properly. The staff is the most precious thing in this institution, as in many other institutions and companies. We're coming in on the insurance bill. I have no doubt that at least... A part of the government section agrees that this is an unfair tax that weighs on a business. Some companies may not have very high work expenses, high levels of employment, and can handle this, but other companies do the opposite. A lot of insurance costs, high taxes on the job life reduce incentives to invest, increase jobs, etc. Someone may say that if the price was dropped, the company would just put it in the pocket that's earned by it. That may be so, but we still think it will lead to growth rather than the other. I expect there will be a time between discussions to consider only the proposed changes. We hope that some of them will be approved tomorrow, but if there's a problem, they'll all be cut off by the government sector. They can, of course, be brought up revised and may be better developed or made available between discussions. I think it's important that the committee take a good time to listen and work. I know that the committee is well composed, and her chairman has shown that he listens to the voices that appear. The group has published its suggestions and no need to extend the discussion. Of course, we will continue to fight for those and other suggestions that we feel are about to improve the budget or the government's affairs. It's vast, it's expensive, and it's important to be successful. We hope that in a revised financial program, a year will be looked forward to because we cannot run a government fund with a tilt of many years in a row, and we really can't, and we're not supposed to. Our goal is not to do that. I hope, Mr. President, this discussion that has been good for the past few days will lead to a look at it, without any offer, how can it be arranged differently than we do today. Of course, we are always ready for a conversation with anyone who wants to do better in the government, seeking ways to save, manipulate, unite, and get more out of it.
