ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u1	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. We're out of Suðvest. "Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir, "that she can't attend next week. So today, on Monday, March 4, we are taking over to the General Assembly as an assistant to the Fjölnir States National Sæmundsson, 2nd, on the left movement's list of green bids in the district, the 1st deputy has announced incursion. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u2	Borist has a letter from the fourth. Smoke. s., Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvarsdóttir, says that she can't attend next week. It is therefore requested that Katla Þórhildardóttir Thordddddddóttir be seated in the General Assembly today. She's 2nd on Pirata's list in the district, but the 1st deputy has announced an incursion. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a letter for Katla Þórhildardóttir Thorfjörðurdóttir. At the same time, the board of directors and monitoring committees have been called to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u3	Mr. President. As noted in the case of the president, a board of directors and surveillance committee has assembled to review Katla Þórhildardóttir Katla, 2nd. A., from the government of the United States. Did the Commission agree not to comment to the letter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u4	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Katla Hólm Þórhildardóttir has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to her Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u6	President. Some time ago, the government introduced its proposals to meet the work market, and it can be said that they did not receive a positive welcome from a representative of the labor movement. I have previously discussed the possibilities that might involve looking into interest in interest to the growth and prices and financial status of the financial system in connection with debates, but it seems that there is no interest in it on the part of the government, and it actually has to do with that project or speculations about that matter. That's why my question is to the highest. Prime Minister simple: Is it possible to review or add the proposals of the government? Would it be possible to revise the suggestions that have already been introduced or to add some of the suggestions to help with the workforce?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The suggestions we have been working on in the past few months are thought as general reform proposals for society but also to pay for collective agreements, in view of the fact that many of these proposals conflict with the emphasis to make up the labor movement. They have been focused on the following aspects: the structure of social housing, the structure of structure as well as the quality of the environment. A senator is well aware of the first steps that the general living system was, of course, under its seat in its own time, but the suggestions now are more widely developed and are also about the protection of tenants and development of stronger rent markets for people so that people have increased their choice. Second, they focus on the length of the birthworm, that real steps will now be taken to extend the birthworm to 12 months, a huge life span for especially young children. Third, the tax proposals that have been best discussed are that of entering a new low - income phase to meet income - rich groups, and they also balance the standards of the tax system so that we do not see the tax system that has been criticized. Hv. A senator asks if there is anything to add: Yes, there is a proposal to allow access to the so - called first purchase of a real estate market, since, of course, a substantial proportion of those who are, for example, are already available. ... ina tenurewantsto enter property markets. On the other hand, we would like to have a conversation with the labor movement and the professional drivers about the issues. A senator specifically mentioned, i.e. The issues of the insurance policy and the interest levels in the country. So, yes, that's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u8	The president's request is that the timing system be frozen, but I'm here with a planned bracelet and I try to live by incidents of fairness in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u9	President. I don't even think I need a minute because the question is simple. Actually, it's just a routine of a previous question. Thank you very much. The prime minister for recalling what has already been presented, but would it be possible that something else is added to what has not already been introduced? Then I'm especially looking into things like tax issues. That's what's at the top. The prime minister has previously traced, and it is a pleasure to hear that the government is ready to discuss the financial system. But is there an option to add the suggestions that have already been introduced and what have already been presented?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u10	Mr. President. The suggestions that have already been offered for changes in the tax system are based on a more thorough report presented to me during the last week or even last week. It does not mean that they will change them to the foundation, but, of course, they will go to church treatment, and it also matters when they are implemented how we see the housing support system and the children's recovery system develop along with the laws. As I mentioned earlier, there are certain factors and I understood a question. The senator also asked for further suggestions. I mentioned suggestions for support of first purchases and suggestions on how to unwind the insurance, especially when it comes to consumer loans. Third, I would like to mention the pension cases that are something that have often been on the table of the government and of the labour market. There we need to discuss further developments when it comes to pensioning, and that conversation is, of course, ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u11	A respectable president. Once again, I'm here to discuss a serious situation at the hospital Hall of Vogi. Once again, I come to call on what we did here, the legislature, for Christmas, when we gave 150 million. K. to support the YES and activities there. I'm not going to downplay the good will as high as possible. A health minister has previously responded to me and talked about money for consumers, talking about additional assistance and growth in walking departments to put our addicts on when they come out of therapy. I'm still talking about the emergency problem with the Hospital Vogi, what's wrong with that. There's a waiting list for admissions high to 600 people. The number of admissions in the year is now reduced by 400 and has already closed the walking department in Akureyri. That's why I want to ask the highest. If at any point she did not understand the appeal in the community last year, which was here when Congress came together to call for this increased funding especially in support of the emergency hospital hospital hospital hospital hospitalisation, especially to the court lists and the desperate people who were waiting to be treated. Got the top. Health Minister at some point this call, isn't it? Why is that not all the more done? I'm going to the top. Is it not for the health minister to meet the exact appeal? I don't need to hear an answer. Health Minister for anything that turns into walking departments, consumers. I'm only asking about an emergency problem because of the lack of hospitalisations at the hospitalhouse of Vogi. If it wasn't possible that we could use this funding, at least The largest part of the 150 million that were specifically printed in our minds in an effort to meet and eliminate this emergency? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u12	A respectable president. We're still talking about S.A., me and what. A senator, and though at ease. A senator does not want the answer to the development of hierarchical activity, but he does need to look to what the council decides to do. [[You heard me.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u13	Oh, you want...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u14	In this case it is that the council will come to a certain conclusion to support a particular activity that is primarily a walking process. There is also the process of walking, and there is also an emergency. Even so, making a decision to assign the Land Hospital a ◯ university hospital to care for children and young people who have a problem of drug consumption is also a matter of dealing with the vulnerable. In that respect, this part is being handled. But I must, a respectable president, take note of Generals' decision, when the additional amount of money that the council adds into the business is actually earmarked for a particular operation. I have to say I thought it would be a pleasure that now for the first time there's money for walking around and especially in Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u15	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I can't quite figure this out. The general will and the like - that was the clear will of the Lawgiver, the highest. Health Minister, calling for money precisely in order to try to meet the emergency problem involving patients who needed immediate admission to Vogi. It is known, and it is known that a patient who is an alcoholic or a drug addict who makes the decision to have treatment tomorrow or the other person has changed her mind very soon. It is also known that the U.S.A. has run its own walking departments with self - resources in the time since health insurance was not added to the U.S.A. years ago, although they would have liked to use the funds to expand their service to the patients they were admitted to the hospital. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Health Minister: Where is the task of fostering a land hospital for the youngest consumers when employees in that hospital say they have no experience or knowledge to put their arms around the seminar? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u16	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator speaks of walking to the point of self - resources as the comment that we, the state that buyers of health care, were more concerned with buying the services of the U.S.A. Therefore, the contract between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the United States for this service is now under way, because the council considered it important to secure the work on budgets with a special and an earmarked contribution. That's why I'm surprised to learn that there's something wrong with that matter. But because of him. A senator then asks about the situation at the National Hospital of ◯ A university hospital I was last discussing with the director of the Land Hospital. Preparation is good, i.e. We expect to start the ministry for this group at the Hospital this summer. Even now, preparatory preparations with the child - protection authorities are in place to ensure the integration there. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is a very important but delicate service, and knowledge is available at the Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u17	Mr. President. When it comes to environmental protection, the situation, the importance, and the responsibility of our Icelanders are enormous, not just to ourselves, but to globally. During that weekend, the first international convention that focused on two, European cooperation and environment was held. It discussed what we all know, and the highest. Environment and resource secretary probably better than most, that environmental interests are at present most relevant to the public. Our ellipse is large, and we can see a similar effect of the transition, to say the least. Although the environment is not just climate, it is now the most important thing to do, and in these parts of the North, it is all around. The effects have already been seen by warming and acidification of the sea, changing fish progress, changes in current currents, and melts. Therefore, I would like to submit to a minister, ask him if he has begun his work to assess the overall impact of climate change on the Icelandic nature and natural resources of the nation, especially on European fish stocks, but also on other natural elements that we have so far enjoyed, rely on, and identify our country. I want to know what this situation is. It's important that we have our finger on our pulse, not just for the actions we need to resist, but also for how we can respond to our most important professional skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I agree with what was presented in the senator's case, that the environment is very important today, and especially when we look to the immediate future and, in fact, the long future. This was called a European partnership. We take up a great deal of EU directives in terms of the environment, and many of these have brought our legislation on the rise. But not everything that comes through there, like nature protection, and anything else that we've made very comfortable with here at home, in my opinion. Hv. A senator asked about the overall impact on nature and resources, and on climate matters, if I understood why. A senator is correct. First, there is the regular work of the Weather Service in cooperation with a number of other members of science, and now three have been published, the last one last year. I expect to arrive in March with a bill at the council, where I want to establish this issue, to ensure that the impacts of climate change on both nature and resources are under way. I'd like to mention one thing about what Iceland and I haven't had yet, but we're working on at the Ministry. At the same time that we have been made desolate, a plan of action, also called by its source. A senator's need for action, has to work out a adaptation strategy to climate change on a wide range of levels, into all that attracts, e.g. Increase sea level and its impact on society, infrastructure, and so on. In June last year, I work on proposals for the best way to work on such a strategy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u19	Mr. President. I thank the government for the warm words to the European Union and then I would like to direct the latter round the words only to economic motivations. I'm not only talking about higher carbon costs but also the fact that we need to promote sustainable agriculture and thus stress sustainable development, which is much more likely to produce environmental success than many others. There I would like to refer specifically to your bill. A senator and chairman of the Forest of Katrín's daughter, the Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir, of the change in agricultural and agricultural laws since the last fall, which, in fact, did not bring great happiness to all members of the United States. Minister. It was suggested to expand support to farmers so that they can achieve environmental, forestry, innovation, completion of forward operating operations, and tourism. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, what is the position of such progressive paces within the government, and whether we should not expect actual and ambitious suggestions from the highest. That's a government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u20	A respectable president. I would also like to agree that economic catalysts are an extremely important control tool when it comes to the environment and especially when climate change is involved. In view of the government's seven adviser action program, economic incentives are in many of the measures outlined, especially when it comes to the development of the energy system, which is of great importance. When factors involved in resource use, agriculture, fishing, and other factors come into play, I feel that economic motivations can be applied even to a greater degree to achieve results, including in the energy exchange I mentioned earlier. Then we'll work together with agricultural and marine eco-efficiency, i.e. In the first place, sheepfolds, especially in terms of carbon binding, make economic incentives so that they can participate in the future road. [[The president calls.]] So there is at least some of it. A senator mentioned a start.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A health minister who is interested in matters I am interested in is a group of people who do not have loud warnings. For a long time, a prison agency has offered a petition to the Department of Health for the violations of human rights in the country's prisons; governments seem to believe that this is where her dirty children, Eva, are, in spite of their mismanagement and misdemeanors, committed by the Icelandic government to administer humanitarian treatment to these individuals. Instead of being alone in his struggle, the U.S. commissioner has given attention and repeatedly direct inquiry to the government as to how he intends to ensure the right of prisoners, including mentally ill inmates, in an adequate way. In the absence of answers, both from health care and from the minister of justice, an agent came to the prime minister, hoping to respond. The situation is extremely serious, and the Ministry of Justice has accepted the concern of the Agency and described that the execution of the law on the full penalty does not guarantee the rights of prisoners. The Icelandic government has known about the loss of the situation but, unfortunately, there is no response, there is no apparent lack of interest in recovery. It's the highest. The health minister agrees that this is entirely an unsurpassed treatment of people of freedom? And can we ask, Will the government answer how they feel about securing the human rights of this society beyond the appointing of a committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u22	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator to see that this is an unacceptable situation. I also agree with comments that came from the General's agent on the same subject. I believe that the way we treat people of freedom reflects society's position, so they need to get their hands on them. I have stressed that both public health care and health care for prisoners are secure, as well as for mental - health services that are consistent with the emphasis we generally see in mental health matters and in the comfort of health - care professionals. In fact, there are only enough financial resources for mental health in prisons of some 50 million. K. This year. On the one hand, we are talking about some of the financial resources that have been taken for years at the South National Institute of Health for Little War but have not been set aside in this way and additional 30 million to prepare both detoxification and general and specific mental - health services for the duration of abduction. The aim of the contracts currently on the National Medical Insurance Table and the outside of that arrangement is to be carried out in the hands of specialized hospitals, which, of course, have to be done at four locations in the country. [[The president calls.]] It's all in place. We're about to finish the deal. I hope that I can identify the council, at least. The Council of Congress, from the conclusion of the matter over the next few days. We're in contact with each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister for the answer, but unfortunately, this is in no way consistent with the information I have received, both from the U.S. Marshal, as well as from a recent prison agency that I recently visited. The situation is simply that jailers care for all the incidents that arise in prison, whether associated with serious mental illness and dangerous prisoners, in great discrimination, or inmates suffering from physical illness. They certainly do this as best they can, but it should be noted that prison school is a total of up to nine months, and of course it is not a substitute for health studies, whether in nursing or in medicine. They are made aware of their spiritual and physical well - being, of medication, of serious wounds, of any situation in the country's prisons, of any danger to themselves or to other prisoners. Lack of instruments in the affairs of mental prisoners has led to their being held inside a prison in a detriment of freedom. Of course, this is a serious matter. It's very serious to make sure that this is just some conversation with health insurance when the situation is as serious as it really is. [[The president calls.]] We must do better than this because every day of freedom is very burdensome, although the equipment is not as tragic as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u24	A respectable president. I suppose that's what it is. A senator is asking a health minister because the answer is there. When I say that an agreement is being made with both health care and special hospitals regarding such services, both public health care and mental - health care, may arise. A senator was confident that this is the case. They are being set free of charge and do not represent this matter in groups of people, nor do they allow prison guards to have tasks to be carried out by health care professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u25	Mr. President. On Friday, a new report on the fourth industrial revolution was called. Although the report did not contain many material policies, it is for many reasons. However, the report stated that Iceland's position in education in science, technology, engineering and mathematics is very bad compared with many and even most other OECD countries. It can also be expected that in the coming years, social changes will be significant as a result of technological development. Achieving the effects of artificial intelligence on the pros and crafts of the country is not to be underestimated. In view of the report, it is reasonable to ask: What action is expected from the government in order not to fall further off the train in an international comparison? Most of the world's countries are now striving to outdo artificial intelligence, technology, and self - efficiency, so we need to be involved. I'd like to know what measures to take. The prime minister feels that the most urgent way to react to the fourth industrial revolution is not just to have us sitting on some average but to give Iceland an opportunity to be prominent. I'd like to ask you, too, how much? The prime minister envisions that the benefits of growing self - efficiency in the community will benefit the common people in general and what has to be changed so that this industrial revolution will not result in such a dramatic change as the last one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of Parliament, also chairman of a future committee, cooperates with the work of the Generals and the Ministry of Presidency. I think that's important because of what you're doing. A senator mentions what action to take. I also think it is time for us to start discussing whether there is no reason to place that committee in formality. That is primarily a formality. We're gonna go for a second. A senator was at a hearing together. It's turning into a huge change, not just a job market. And that may be what this report shows, it is not only about changes in employment markets but also changes in society everything, a social conversation, but possibly also changes in very profound aspects of human identity. I witnessed this assembly in the Israeli scholar Yuva Noah Harari, who wrote a lot about these matters. He wondered whether the religions of the new century are faith in the evidence and faith in the information; after we have moved from religion to belief in God, we now believe primarily in the evidence. I thought it was an interesting theory. But this is one of the things we need to consider: How do we make our data, so I talk about tangible operations? How do we keep our hands on the data in our community? It enables us to do better because we repeatedly find that we do not have sufficient data but that we are at the same time on special opportunities to base our decisions on good data. We have an example now, a new web, a record of income, since we have a unique opportunity to collect data and thus build our policy on real-life data. Then it is an investment in research and innovation. There, the government has already set standards for university and high school policy. We're planning to invest directly more in innovation, which I think is a top priority, because as noted, Iceland is behind other countries when it comes to most aspects of innovation except the technical infrastructure. We use the technical infrastructure, so we're all in community service, we probably have the highest proportion of the nation's population on the world community media, but at the same time we can do much better in using these good technology. [[The president calls.]] Then I want to name the lower level of education in the next input.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u27	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that the promotion of the future committee is a positive idea and that the work of the committee has gone very well. There is a correlation between the work that was part of the Committee on the Fourth Industrial Revolution and what we are doing there. It is true that technology needs to be developed. The society has changed so quickly that there is a certain gap between how we think about technology and how we as a community talk about it. Such perforation has occurred before. We can see how much and how far - reaching the urbanisation and property transfers that took place at the time of the steam machines affected society. During that time, there was a tremendous increase in the imbalance. Although the quality of life of everyone has grown dramatically, we have really been arguing over the last 200 years. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister once again: In what ways should we prevent the new type of community that arises because of this technological development? [[The president calls.]] That's a key we need to deal with here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u28	Mr. President. It was of interest that this is specifically discussed in the short report, i.e. the impact of technological change on the balance and the control of government policy. Then I'd like to say about the changes that will take place there that will be relevant to what governments will do to support the people of the country to cope with these changes. I mentioned earlier investments in research, but it needs to be considered with the ongoing education program, and that was one of the facts. We need to emphasize a much greater degree of education, which we have certainly increased in recent years and decades, but not from this concept, the changes that are taking place in a workforce. Then I'd like to mention something else, that now estimated to be the most important factor in education and primary education in a decade. I wrote that it referred to critical thinking, creative thinking, and emotional thinking. All of this was much lower in the arts just five years ago. However, I am very happy that in 2011's textbooks, which I had the privilege of signing, there is criticism and creative thinking among what we can call the basic aspects of the study report. [[The president calls.]] The emotional intelligence, however, had not entered that curriculum. Of course, we need to approach the entire educational system so that we will enable all to cope with the technological revolution and cultivate our own opportunities for it. It's a huge equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u29	A respectable president. It has now been over two years since the manal program has expired at the end of 2016, which, of course, is far too long for such a serious matter. As has not been observed in any country and has recently been reported in the news, human - trade issues have been an ongoing problem in Icelandic society. Reports have been saying that the efforts to combat human sales in Iceland have been so devastating that international institutions have made comments on how few charges have been presented in this series of cases in this country. More recently, the protection and circumstances of human tolerance have been criticized in this country. There is no doubt that a good plan of action would be an improvement. And as I said before, it's been over two years since the last plan went down. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: What is the contribution of a new human action program? Also, I would like to ask if there has been enough money in a financial program that I know is in progress for a new game in human affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that an act form of action against the human race has been established in its time, with the nature of the matter in its own time. On the other hand, I'd like to make a mistake that, of course, it doesn't mean we're not here on a human-sale plan, but it's closer. There are laws and other practices that deal with the man - made sale. I'm impressed. A senator may be overreaching the river with his claim that mansal has been a permanent problem in this country recently, as he put it. I think it's hard to argue with this statement exactly. However, human halls have been very involved here, and they have called attention to it, as it were. A member of the U.S. government must be referring to the findings of a foreign party who has wondered why there is little charge here on the land in human affairs. That's why I've answered, so the rights here in Iceland are very different from those in the United States. Fortunately, I say now, in that we don't have a lawsuit, but the charges are made that there is a greater probability than a lesser conviction in the matter. The police have. It has issued a lawsuit in human affairs, has received indications on the possibility of mansalion, but has examined and dropped. So it is in itself in a good way. However, this does not change the fact that we are working on government emphasis on human affairs that I will hopefully introduce to you in the days ahead. They have been in progress for some time and in a thorough consultation process among and outside the board of directors. I think I can claim that in the next few days, this emphasis will be presented, first possibly on the consultation puzzle to give men the opportunity to have opinions about it. But at any rate, they'll be officially introduced soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm not going to argue with her about what is a persistent problem or what we think is a problem each of us, but at least the man's room has been a problem in Iceland. Not to be overlooked is the fact that if we are not looking for a problem, we cannot see it. If we never express speed, no traffic law will break. I would like to emphasize the importance of a new man-salt program being fully funded for success. It is impossible to set up plans that are so unfunded that they cannot be followed. It has been observed that both police and unions have felt that they lack tools to work on these issues. We have been criticized for the means and circumstances of tolerance. For example, it has been criticized that Iceland's laws and regulations on human rights and occupational rights have made it difficult for us to ensure their safety in this country, as well as future safety. It simply tells us that the victims have left the country before they can ever testify to judgment. I think it's very important to respond in some way, to find a solution to these matters regarding living and working permits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to make certain that there is a law in penalties that includes what one would call the manal in everyday speech. Of course, there is a definition of being under compulsion, and this is being carried out, making police and prosecutions as well as others involved in these matters. This may be e.g. At the right time. A senator - I don't know, but I've been careful in the discussion that people want deliberate, or perhaps misunderstandings, mixed in one discussion of human halls and what is commonly called a social subheading, which, of course, is completely different. I think it's important to separate these two things from the discussion. But that does not change the fact that police and others need to be alert to possible human sales in this country, such as elsewhere. We know that there is an ever - growing problem regarding organized migrations indiscriminate and indiscriminate purposes. I'd say the police were very good at this. She has been given special instruction on these matters, rather than regular instruction for regular police officers, just to be equipped to identify the potential manales. As for the financial agenda, I'd like to mention that money to be expected in a financial program has not been specifically expected. The investigation of offenses is subject to the same laws as other illegalities in this country that the police operate within the budget. [[The president calls.]] Of course, human halls and investigations in human affairs fall, as do other lawbreakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u33	President wants to compliment you. Councilmen and the highest. advisers to do their best to respect deadlines, although the time monitoring system is down. It may only be turned off permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u34	Mr. President. Recently, the National Archives received a report on local archives and documentaries from a local government office, i.e. in December 2018, it was in its traditional surveillance role that it has not been doing for a very long time. There was something I wanted to talk to the highest. Minister. Of course, if a local body is to be met by law and serve the level of government and the public, the main premise is that we have a clear, good frame and reflect the demands of our modern society. In this context, I would like to mention, in particular, that my query turns to the electronic filament of local archives, that in 2009, a project was being carried out to the National Archives Department electronic language and document review systems. That project took much longer and was more costly than expected at the time of its departure. The changes were significant, and the most complex technical part was changing the data to the form indicated by the National Library's regulations for the possession and publication. I'm gonna throw up one thing and another here. The results of this exploratory analysis show that improvement is needed on a global scale in local document collection, both of which is the maintenance of electronic data and then the implementation of regional reporting activities. I'm concerned that local society data or institutions could be lost. It's not good for us civilians, especially in time, because it is of course important to be able to download older data when working alone, whether they are scientists or people writing essays or looking for our origins or something like that. There's a lot under there. It is shown that rural and regional records have not ensured the preservation of these data, and the monitoring is not readily controlled to say that it is okay. According to the survey, 30% of its local archives are said to copy important documents in some way, not enough of a targeted security copy of the most important documents, etc. Now that the time is up, I'd like to ask about the Regulation I know is in the Ministry of Education, when it can be expected and if the lead-in period is acceptable. Does a minister see that the distribution of annual business grants to regional archives from state funds would require a review? Finally, in view of the tremendous cost of electronic surveillance, I ask whether the minister thinks it should only be in the National Archives, that it should be handled, but not all the museums out of all places.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for coming here for a speech tour to discuss this subject. The National Archives of Iceland works by law on public libraries, No. 77/2014, but 3rd. They say: The National Archives of Iceland plays a role as a candidate for official document review and document management. In addition, the collection is the role of the public archive.◯ These factors in the role of the administrative organisation are both specific, involved in leading document management and government documenting and rural society by setting the rules for the preservation and disposal of documents, providing instructions and monitoring of documents to be received and maintained, both electronically and paper, from national and private sources. A respectable president. When it comes to community self - control, it results in 78 percent. in the Constitution and the legislation on public archives to decide the operation of local archives or to agree on the operation of such institutions is at the power of each community. The rural areas that do not run local archives can negotiate with the National Archives Report on the electronic saving of documents. The government sets up a frame of electronic filing of documents with the local archives regulations based on a set of official archives and then strengthens the collections by means of contracts and by means of collections. The government's contribution to the budget is 31.5 billion. K. to the local archives. The rural communities carry in front of certain laws when it comes to official document custody. According to 2 mg. Section 8. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, rural management is obliged to ensure that legal duties are respected and monitored. A respectable president. As mentioned in the case of what? The senator is within the Ministry of Education and Culture in a department of the Regulation on the operation of local archives and will soon be discussed by the government's consultations. It will sharpen the role of local archives in preserving electronic data. Its type includes: look to comments received by the earlier words of the Regulation. Just as other members of the council were present today, i.e. An e - mail, about the local archives and electronic filing that will also be considered in the Ministry. Then I'd also like to tell you what. The senator that, following this inquiry, I will discuss this matter in particular with a new national document that will be set up in the next few days. Finally, I would like to say that the adjustment, of course, is very important to consider, because this is a significant cost and that both the National Library and the local libraries have discussed how to divide it. We are also entering a new world regarding the need to preserve electronic data. I strongly highlight it as the minister of the seminary that what we do is self-sustained and that it is settled between the National Archives and the local archives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to put in a single word of need, and I'm sorry that the clock is up. By increasing the amount of paper documents and electronic data, the nation's collection has increased. It's a golden opportunity to kill here on one of the parish tools. One of the declared objectives of the government is to increase the number of jobs without location, and one small example of successful arrangements is found in Isafjörður. During the past few years, national archives have been in progress. It includes the registration of a panel number in a central database. This has helped four employees to gain an accurate knowledge of the field. The agreement with the National Library is one year at a time. The continuation of the project remains uncertain each year. In view of the good experience at Ísafjörður, I challenge to the highest. A minister will take advantage of the fact that this and other forms of work will be established so that employees will not have to live with uncertainty but will be able to organize their work as long-term projects. Why do I ask a minister that they're going to do this? Will such priorities become a priority?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up the subject. In fact, even the regions of Kopavogi, where they have played a major role in a number of editions that are in the late 1980's and electronic and paper editions. These include interesting projects, such as the making up of sheep in Kópavogi, which appeared in 2017, the settlers in Kópavogi, which appeared in 2016, Kampar in Kópavogi, which was published in 2013. I think this is part of watering, as it were, trying to cultivate it well and make sure that such museums get a worthy role. I agree with what. paritaprevir Guðjón's servant, S. Brjánsson, is about to take jobs to these collections of the capital area where appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and members of Congress for the participation. I think it's extremely important that local archives can ensure the preservation of electronic data, but monitoring is not good enough when you see that most of the data in the administrations today have their origin in electronic systems. In turn, we cannot preserve everything by printing and storing it, e.g. not audio files, image files, or databases, perhaps that was what I was trying to enter earlier. I believe that if we're going to let every local archive in the country cost such equipment to keep it all too costly and then we're not going to be able to do what we know most of the local libraries have to do, because they've been underdeveloped for decades, and they haven't even been able to record what they have to record today. I wondered if the National Archives itself should not save only what belongs to, for example. Audio and image files are more expensive. Then we build a good system that accepts it. It may well be that the City Archives could, I don't know, but I think money would be better spent by saving such data only to the National Archives and by other means supporting them to local archives. Of course, more than 30 million are going to the museums, but there are a lot of them, and they're a very small amount of money. We see the e-mails, they're also documents. If 47% of our rural communities do not keep what is supposed to fall under their legal records, as we have sadly seen repeatedly, it is something we have to make a good impression.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u39	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator, this has proved to be a major and dramatic project. The lack of money has been complained. It is quite clear that although all local administrative agencies use an electronic data system, only the city office has reported and received access to an electronic document list. So there's a situation difference. I agree with members of Congress who mention that the local libraries play a very important role. It is our job to hold these documents in place so that these sources can be preserved. We do so in an orderly and upbuilding way. But it is clear that we need to work very hard on this Regulation and consider that all of this is done in cooperation and harmony between the National Archives and the local archives. Our greatest source of information is the literature product we have been able to preserve. I have the theory that it actually brings about an increasing quality of life, that those nations actually do better things that keep their culture, history, and other factors in life and have good fortune to do so. I think we're examples of such a nation. I thus take to heart the concerns and comments presented here, which will be used at work ahead of this Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u40	Mr. President. It has long been before that the voice is a professional tool of many classes, especially of teachers. We have much to do with what we do with our voice at work that it doesn't fail. In view of the fall of Akureyri's sentence on a sports teacher who lost her voice because of the unacceptable work circumstances, and you can say that it's an unprecedented judgment in itself in which the voice is recognized as a professional tool, I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister whether it believes that it can improve education as part of a teacher's study of voice and voice bait and exercise for the teacher's speech instruments. Does a minister think that this will be done right now when the teacher's school is being revised? And does a minister think that amplitude should be standard equipment in a classroom? Valdís Jónsdóttir's daughter, a speech pathologist, has been reluctant to let us know what works to use her voice, especially her teacher, what can be done. She has been tireless in trying to present good indications on these matters. I have to agree with her. The noise is defined as a harmful sound and is considered one of today's major health problems. Unfortunately, high - school noise readings, both in play schools, in sports houses, and in swimming halls, show that the demands for ultrasound are not met, and the noise is far too often above limits. I was in a classroom myself, where the accident - safety company lent us an eye, which turned red when the noise got too loud. It's most damaging to say that the ear was just always red. The noise for teachers, students, and everyone was way too much. It is also something that can be solved in a house by action, but it puts undeniably pressure on the person's voice. Teachers are also most likely to consult a doctor because of voice problems and discomfort related to them. In this context, I'd like to say that there's been a lot of discussion about the PISA investigation and the results and possible reasons for them. There, there have been many discussions and concerns, including those in the United States. One of the results of Valdís's findings is the usefulness of the amplitude system in the teaching environment. It's got results. It shows that most of the children and young people said that they could hear what a teacher was saying when using the heavy - volume system. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on what I mentioned earlier and whether she doesn't think it's only education needs to be done, but it has to be done directly at the teacher's school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u41	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for this inquiry and coming here to discuss the subject of the teacher. Teachers are the foundation of the school system and one of the big projects of the minister here is improving the teacher's global working environment and increasing the recruitment in the class. To illustrate, tomorrow I will introduce government actions aimed at promoting teachers'education and improving the working environment of teachers. Already there is emphasis on voice and voice bait and speech practice at the University of the University of Iceland and at the University of Akureyri, with special-trained teachers. At the same time, vocalization is taught on a training course designed to be a hobby, parenting and education experts, and development therapists. These studies also highlight voice protection and training. In the present organization, sports instructors receive training in vocalization at the base of the study, four classes. In the new and adjustment of the Master's organization, which will be used by the next textbook, students will then receive further progressive voice training during the fifth year of the teacher's study. The timing is determined by the fact that at this time teachers go to advanced field studies. The schedule for this training is in progress and is built to include on experience and restoration from our students in field education, since they have had experience in serving in a gym day after day. Our students who have been trained and trained in the use of speech have found satisfaction and talk about benefits on the scene. From the above, it is clear that all teachers are trained and instructed in the use of voice language. To promote education and training, you might have more courses in voice bait, voice protection and history for all students of basic and master's studies. For asking why. A senator on amplitude and if there should be a standard setting in an classroom, it is my opinion that a careful step to the ground is needed, despite the fact that what is very interesting in the case of Valdís Jón's Jónsdóttir, the speech pathologist, i.e. that we put more emphasis on teaching in our voice and use of voice in our students' studies. But because the way of teaching has been changing substantially over the past few years or decades, I think we should keep it up and down, because we also hear of children who have trouble opening space because they think there's just too much noise and want to be in another space. Of course, we need to meet the toolbox that teachers have and that we consider how our children are best suited to learn, that a study environment is attractive, and that it is a measure of tranquillity, but also a source of encouragement. A respectable president. I reiterate that I am glad that we are discussing the teacher's working environment on the basis of its voice appeal and importance. It is my opinion that we should discuss the subject of education more frequently at the Generals because here we are laying the foundation for the future. Here we discussed the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. It is quite clear to me that the answer to all these key challenges, or the issues we face, is and will be education and will be reexamined and emphasis on reading in the widest sense. Then we come back to the importance of the teacher. It is the teacher who will lay the foundation for all the work that we will shape for the future. It must be in common with all of us here to foster the teacher's working environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u42	A respectable president. Here is an important subject that is the use of the teacher's voice and the protection of his voice. I'm especially happy to hear that both of these basic teachers have a high priority on them. However, the use of voice protection and voice protection must also be part of the ongoing education. Because we are also dealing with the teacher's work environment, there is sound retention in the classroom that may have the most impact from day to day and that the quality of design and sound is emphasized when a classroom is being designed and, in fact, a teaching environment. I have personally tried that in that classroom where I started my course of teaching, it was a very, very bad sound stop. The room was so absorbed three or four years ago, and I got to come in and talk to a student group. I can't describe the change that happened to the work environment with such a good playout design. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u43	Mr. President. I still want to thank you. A leader, Berk Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter, for raising an interesting subject. How important it is that we look at all these security programs when we discern the circumstances in which the different classes work! I think that in terms of the teacher's professional protection and use of voice, it may be equally appropriate to consider whether it should be in the primary school course at some particular point, i.e. in the education of their children, to introduce them to the use of voice, and to teach them how to use their voice and voice intensity to make their language known and to be heard in a convenient way. Then we'll come back to it as soon as possible. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative came in with a sound delivery pump. Finally, I want to point to singing as a very effective method of teaching vocalization.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u44	A respectable president. It's all about knowing how to use the spell. Thank you. A leader, Berk Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for bringing up this important subject about the teacher's working environment. There is quite a fairyish challenge in classrooms and in the student environment, that is knowledgeable to all present, both the visual and the challenge in the audio environment, quite adventurous. The noise can be very intense. I think most people who have had to reach a group's ears may at times have to speak lower. Sometimes you need to lower your voice, and sometimes you need to place the stillness inside a group. I don't believe in electricalized communications, and I'm a little afraid that a stronger is designed to create a wall and actually add to the challenge. [[The president calls.]] I have doubts about it, and I have more faith in coaching.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u45	Mr. President. It is very good to talk here about the well - being of a teacher in a classroom and is an important discussion. It is good to examine creative solutions, smaller classes could be an obvious solution to this particular problem. However, if a teacher's education is to be revised, other factors can also be considered, and particularly to improve the study of disability at a teacher's school. Teachers working with a very diverse group of children, and they vary in intensity about so - called, with the permission of a president, the neuro-diverses, which often resent children's education. At my best level, which is quite good, there is no mandatory courses in disability at the University of Iceland in teachers. However, increasing awareness and recognition among teachers of diverse student groups can have a positive effect on the work of the classroom, both for teachers and for students. So I want to point the top. The Minister of Education, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddd, should not forget the variety of people if they are revising teachers in HI.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to move on for a little while, since it was gone by the wind. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson, i.e. ... withanimportantwalls. I agree with the presentation, but I would like to add only that there are certain teaching tools that we can also use, which are audiobooks. Not everyone can read the study material in a way that is well prepared in a book. Just as it isn't anyone who can be a priest and sing. Not necessarily any teacher can produce material in a well - understood way in a book such as many who have listened to audio books may have come to realize that if the reader doesn't fit the volume, you'll be able to make the sound book ◯med detSamme◯, excuse the sleigh. This is something that I think is relevant here for future ideas on study development, that audio books are also taken there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and for any members of the council who have brought a rather interesting question about this subject. I'm on the level that it's important to be in the study, not that it's just something that's in class for a very short time. It is good to know that plans are in progress and that voice protection and training are not increasing. V.E.G. Ministers and others talked about a lot of noise in a big space and stuff like that. What I mean when I talk about amplitude -- I just want to say that I've tried both of them and talk from experience in these cases -- that it's very good to have a grip on. Sometimes we have large groups and rushes, and we have to let the mitigation be, but we need to reach students. I also agree with what. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson, sometimes you have to say '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '-'-'- '-'-'-'. All of this is at home in the educational environment, but it is that at some point it is possible to have access to more efficient systems. That is why I feel that teachers should have access to it, so I ask if it should be required. There are, of course, questions about what might be done, because at first I mentioned the results of our students in PISA. So it has been said: Could it be because students simply don't hear well or that children don't develop language because of too much noise in high school that makes them hear what teachers say? We know that our speech sounds can simply drown out loud and do so. I thought about it because I think we should be therapeutic and have the tools and toolboxes varied, rather than the rest, and that teachers will learn to use it in the environment they live in at each time. Thank you for your fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u48	A respectable president. I agree with what has been presented regarding the ongoing education and re-education. Of course, it is very important that teachers have access to such things and as we focus on the use of voice. When it comes to listening, it is only known in some school activities that even children do not want to go to school if they are too loud, and this can develop a measure of anxiety and distress. So it's a big deal, both for the teachers and for the children, how it's designed. I find it very interesting to hear this in relation to the possible results of our global comparative test, PISA, and whether that's just so that our children don't hear enough from our school system. I'd be interested in taking a closer look. What we're doing, and I'd like to state it, a respectable president, is that we're looking at our entire education system. Why is it that children in the North are measured by Icelandic schoolchildren? I have to tell you for my part that I think there's more power in our system. I think it's about to turn something towards the mind, too, i.e. that your children have not even had enough presentation on these tests. We made a special presentation now that the PISA was submitted. This was done at the time, so I'll mention it, in Reykjavíkurburg for the 2006-2007 test, and it was immediately effective. That was a close call. But in terms of the subject we're discussing, voice bait, soundout, and amplitude, I agree with the procrastination. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, I have to admit that I may not have liked such an amplitude system quite enough. I'm here to listen and to learn more about this because I think we should use all the tools we have to improve the teacher's working environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u49	A respectable president. Microbit is a small computer the size of a credit card which is a small display, a 25-bit LED screen, and two buttons that can be pressed. It can be connected to a battery, as well as to a stream and a variety of applications. The abilities and diversity of the computer are remarkable, considering how small it is and who it is directed to, i.e. High school students. A few years ago, the microbit project was introduced under the rule of Illugi Gunnarsson, the highest. A minister of education at that time, and the Association of industry, which financed the process in some way. Then these little computers were to be distributed to all students in sixth and seventh grade schools in Iceland. The educational agency accepted the project and distribution and set up a very good process, in which nearly all schools, if not all, could participate. This was done in cooperation with the State Radio, and there were some fun little videos called the Code 1.0. An Ævar scientist also participated in the project, creating an act on the computer's programming history. However, there have been reports of changes in the project. Changing and doing things more efficient, etc. may be quite nice, but upstairs you've been worried that even the project should be canceled. True, in other questions in side rooms, I have been assured that this is not the case, but there are some changes in how the computers are distributed to the students and how to go to the project from now on. That's what I ask, i.e. how the project has developed and whether all students get their computer as they used to, or if it's just a class set. The project is very much combined with a synonym that we agreed on during our last session on digital carpenters. This device works very well in digital structures to create e.g. to do the same. Thus, it is ideal for the beginning of the fourth industrial revolution, educatedly, in elementary schools, and in the future. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to hearing the education minister's opinion of the future of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry. I'd like to mention that now at the Ministry, we are developing education policy to 2030 and we realize that one of the key challenges of this model is to promote educational, industrial, professional, and technical sectors in the school system. As I have mentioned earlier, if we are going to face the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution, we need to pay particular attention to these articles. As mentioned, at a conference in Iceland we were discussing and these challenges are the proportion of those who graduate from these articles in particular low in Iceland. We also know that these articles continue to make innovation, research, and development. In my department, we are working on a plan of action on how we can strengthen these articles. We certainly are setting priorities for this kind of money. One of the latest examples is a new study course to study in video games, but funding for the next fall has been established. The Microbit project, or rather emphasis on programming, is currently included in larger projects carried out by the Ministry of Education and Culture by the National Association of Industrial Services, the Union of Iceland, U.S.R., and other stakeholders. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Consider the factory, a 14 - year - old creation competition for young people, and a basic - school innovation competition. In both of these innovations, programming is one of the factors involved. The Microbit project has developed since becoming a microbit microcomputer to students of the sixth and seventh grade to be part of a teaching program in elementary schools and part of innovation and programming of projects that the Ministry of Education and Culture cooperates with stakeholders. A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks whether all students of the sixth and seventh grade will get their own computer, such as when the project began. To answer, the change was made that, rather than having all the students in the sixth and seventh grade, the schools get their own computers to have a class set that is most useful for programming teaching, but after such classes the schools have just called it. This strengthens the size of the school project and strengthens it. The schools themselves are assigned to lend students the tools home if they are desired. The microbit project partner will continue to run the Code 1.0 web, which is a powerful video information panel, programming projects, and challenges for the kids. Schools make good use of it. In addition, the projects are open for use for all interested ones. The future of the project is also asked. Microbit is a tool that can be used in a number of ways, and it is my desire and will to use it to the best of all partners. However, there are other tools, such as other types of PDA and programming systems that can be used for programming and programming. But it's clear that the microbit project has reached a high level of distribution and it's a general pleasure with it. For my part, I want to continue to contribute to its increase, and it is, of course, a most enjoyable, dignified president, that it has brought many to consciousness and to think about programming, and many schools have so many more programs to teach. Because there is a positive development, it was decided that every school would have computer computers this time and then allow them to work it on their own terms in teaching. It so happens that the transmission of the microbit computer will be sent to the country this week and then the schools will be able to request computers for use. A respectable president. I welcome this initiative by the then minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, for bringing this up and in like manner. For me, it is so urgent that children and young people have access to different study tools to promote themselves. A key element of this, and it takes time, is that teachers have a good access to and can adopt programs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u51	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, which has actually been about the development and innovation of elementary schools and the encouragement to school to care for her, which is very important. I would like to ask the question in the discussion how a teacher's training is conducted and how direct encouragement to teachers is made to make use of small computers. I have felt that it was often the biggest threshold in programming that there was no knowledge of the teachers in this field. Similarly, I would like to know how the results of the project have been evaluated or what is most likely to be considered in order to assess the results. I have no doubt that this project is very important, especially before middle school and the top grades in high school. Such training is of utmost importance after a certain foundation is built in reading and mathematics.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u52	A respectable president. I'm gonna come into the beginning of the microbit project, how it was introduced to school. Certain schools took the lead in that subject and started with microbit. They worked there as pioneers and then presented it in other schools who applied to participate in the microbit project. Then teachers from these early schools and others went to them with their new computers and worked to implement the project. It would be interesting to learn how this knowledge has been distributed, according to the teacher's assistance. Now there's a lot of information in the code, and it would be very bad if it were used for the future. It would be very nice to see another mention of that teaching material, make it better and better, increase participation there, etc. I want to ask you again about the access to the computers. It's like the highest. A minister of education said that schools have the authority to lend out computers. A great part of this, of innovation, is being able to stay busy using a new device. I wondered if the device could be accessed in any way, e.g. by buying a device if only a class set is being published. I'm assuming that the piece goes for about 2,000 to the 3000 call or something so that, at least, it could easily be offered in some way that each one would receive his own copy. It would even help older ones to try to get into a digital factory and create their own roofs with a small, inexpensive computer, an enormously versatile.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u53	A respectable president. The Microbit project is very interesting and we can already judge certain results of it, e.g. based on the community discussion of programming. We know what's in here that children and young people play a lot of games and stuff, and it's an interesting part of how games are shaped, how they do it. There is so much of everything we're doing when we go to the automation. So I find it very important that in Icelandic educational systems, technology is laid a good foundation and is clearly a major part of it. As with all good projects, even though the project is very good and good thinking and the project is needed, we all agree on it, usually the induction and the follow-up that are most important. As far as the teachers are concerned, we are working harder to get the tools and tools available to them for the task. Besides, I want us to keep thinking about the induction and follow-up. As indicated by what. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson also plays a vital role in the bioavailability and the ability of children to continue testing themselves and working with programming. I think there's another factor we need to consider regarding the induction and follow-up, i.e. The time children have their equipment and what it gives. I think it's one of the textbooks that shows up with a good idea, we do it, and then the Senate continues to inquire about it, and we make sure that the introduction and follow-up of the project will be good. I think we should take this matter back on schedule and do what we've been doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u54	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u55	A respectable president. What did John Lennon, Pete Townshend, Keith Richards, David Bowie, and Ray Davies have in common other than being young men who faced a mouse and a wave revolution that changed the world and all of us in the 1960's? Yes, they were all studying art after having found it difficult to get into traditional schools. The art program helped these men to find them, not become atheists, but created priceless and incalculable values for the world. This does not mean that all young people who take the lead in art studies are in line for world fame or wealth. Rather, it is evidence that art studies sometimes help young people to find themselves. Art study helps us to activate our creativity, one of the most important human qualities and is increasingly relevant to what machines will do for a greater degree of work that will remind us of this special interaction between our hands and our minds and senses that create art. We need to talk about how schools have ambition and hard work but also from underages build up art studies in this country. I've been working for the highest. The Secretary of Education and Culture five questions about the private art schools that have been recognized by educational authorities and subject to the same laws as the State's regulations and schools, but they fight in the banks and face many problems. These are schools such as the NY Arts School, Photo School, Iceland's Movie School, Klassiski Art Ball School, the School of Songs in Reykjavík, and the school of Songs Victor Demetz, all schools that have achieved remarkable results. I'm asking what it's like to have the government's support for art studies at the college and college that's conducted at a private art school. I'm asking if a minister thinks it's fair that students of art school have to pay double school fees against students of other schools. I ask about service contracts at the art school and if housing costs are taken there. Or do many of the school's funds go to house expenses? I would like to ask if the contracts of teachers'remunerations are expected in the treaties of the state with these schools. And finally, I'd like to know if it's the highest. In view of the difficult situation of many of these schools, a minister intends to revise these agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the entrance, and especially for bringing up these great artists, for instance, is one of my favorite artists, of course David Bowie. It was nice to hear of him speaking in public talk at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. No. 88/1997, the arrangement was adopted that each year's budget revealed which private art schools should receive contributions from the State. Support was established at the General Assembly. I will briefly review the organization's plans for what has been changed into the law on public finances and cause me to go through the questions that arose. Senator. August on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, January 1, 2016, changed this arrangement to the point that now it is expressed in budgets which will go to certain topics. This involves the decision to support private art schools and the decision to make a administrative decision, as 2 mgr. 1st par. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993. Therefore, the whole process in the decision to support private art schools requires compliance with administrative principles as well as with guidelines of 40 or 42. legal on official financial matters, along with regulations from the Council of Jehovah's Witnesses. 643/2018. The situation today is that a new arrangement has not been implemented, and while in progress, contracts made prior to January 1, 2016 have been extended by one year in an appendix. A respectable president. I would like to state that these are significant changes in the environment of the private school. I think it's very important that we consider what this is all about, and we've given ourselves a certain amount of time to develop this Regulation. I am very aware that this can sometimes lead to uncertainty that I am sorry and believe very important that we are working this case so that the schools that have been laying the foundation for a particularly powerful culture of the nation do not have to be too uncertain over the next few years. It's one of the guides when we review Regulation, so I'm taking it out here in the Senate Hall. A respectable president. The minister is asked whether students of these schools should have the same rights and the same support as students at public schools. The minister is also asked if it is reasonable for these students to pay double the fees of school to students at other schools. It would be noted that students who are recognized as a secondary school in high school enjoy all the rights of public high school, for both schools work on the basis of high school law, No. 92/2008. Public schools are on the basis of law and regulations, but private schools are freer in this respect. In public and private schools, a wide variety of high school art studies are available. When the Ministry negotiates a service contract with an approved private school on offer, there are a number of factors, such as a similar program of study is available. Can study as a hobby, with needed analysis, a demand for future study, or a need to be satisfied? It also provides guidelines on how school is connected with the formal school system. It is important that the end of study succeeds as we continue to study and work. All these factors are fundamental when making a decision regarding a service contract and a financial donation. The decision of the private school is then whether and how high school fees are put on the study. When the student selects art courses, he has many options, and he has the authority to decide whether to choose public schools or private schools. For example, students at Iceland's Art University receive a full donation from the state, but in many countries, private schools that collect school fees reduce government spending. Whether or not to collect dues on the government, the school is self - sufficient. The value of the art class in a college model is in the range of 1.83/4.2 million. K., which is very much compared to most other studies. When a government advance to college in 2017 is debated over the number of annual students, it is found that each student's contribution to the University of the Arts is considerably higher than the average of the colleges. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, then, the support of the State for university art students is in full harmony with the support of students in public schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answers. In fact, I have to say that I would have wanted the discussion to be about the issues of a special school, not necessarily an art school, but a special school in general. In fact, I think there is good reason to discuss which environment we live in and thank the highest degree. Minister for review of the situation. I had failed to realize that the laws on public shopping were how to complicate this process for us. I want to reiterate how important it is that there are explained and good service contracts with people who are willing to take part in a good study here, whether it is in the art or anyone else, it can be preschool, elementary schools, high schools, or even colleges, and the importance of the Ministry of Education having a clear policy in these matters. What kind of study will we offer? So, what demands do we place on the person? And what are the rights and responsibilities of students? I absolutely agree that it is a question when schools receive a donation from the state whether they too have the right to collect unlimited school fees. [[The president calls.]] There may be some discrepancies. I think there's a reason to go over it and talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is true that there is good reason to discuss the subject of a very special school and will no doubt have the opportunity to do so at a council assembly. I find that there is a special matter about art, a tiny amount of laws other than other schools, and art schools need much more of the support and support than other schools do. Such schools, such as the highest standard of uncertainty, live in a state of uncertainty between the year and the year. A minister mentioned, and it's good to know that the minister understands it. In general, I believe art might be a more important part of high school in this country than is now, dancing, singing, illustrated, and sawing. There is reason to try to weave it better into the study. The problems of independent art schools are different and varied, and they may not be reasons for going into the stitches of each institution in this field. But the other is important, that schools develop and develop, and that they are appreciated by both the government and the government, and that schools and the local authorities find that within the government and the Ministry, there is an understanding of the value of the work being done there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u59	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator on the importance of art studies. I believe that in recent decades, we have done quite well in this regard, and we think that the culture that thrives in Iceland is a testimony to the results we have achieved. I couldn't agree more. A senator that we need to focus more on the factors, and when we discuss the challenges we face in self - efficiency and the fourth industrial revolution, we see that there is a special emphasis on - what? Yes, first of all, creation and second, emotional intelligence. Note that as we examine the study schedule at the basic school class of 8,◯10. class that it does not always meet the choices that we focus on in our primary study schedule. I can tell you what. A senator says we're going over this specifically because we feel it's urgent. Now that we are introducing educational operations and recent training in the teachers'class, we have a special relationship with the Art University on how to improve and increase the number of teachers in the arts so that we can meet the standardized schedule because we have a lot of faith that it is the way forwards. This is a work that young people find exciting in creation, art, and so forth. We have as a society of all births to do very well in this regard, as history shows it to us. A respectable president. It is urgent to consider that the work environment of a separate school. They produce a variety that would otherwise be out of existence. We need to pay attention to their financial affairs. But it is clear that the budget for forming in the Art University is clearly comparable to that of other Norwegian countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u60	Mr. President. We Icelanders are very proud to be on the lead when it comes to the equality of the sexes, but despite the fact that much of this group is so excellent, we can say, when it comes to the points of the employment market, we stand our neighbors, e.g. in the North, quite behind. Not only do we have a sex - trade labour market but our neighbors, women here, have less career or responsibility than the rest of the North countries, and quite a lower percentage of women are employed here than are recognized there. And then, of course, there is a problem with high level of education in large groups of women's classes, which are hard to see when their education is satisfied with pay. In this context, it is very interesting to consider e.g. A high school teacher with an average pay of the last figures of the Hague, which are before 2017, is about 550,000. in a month at the same time as the average total labour market pay is about 700,000. In view of other well - educated classes, it will be remembered that this group of workers with five years of university education is clearly inferior to the average wage in this country but also considerably inferior to other academics, whether in a public labour market or in the public. Less than a year ago, the Parliamentary Party proposed a clause that would prompt efforts to get the right of the female classes and to promote special negotiations with the labour market parties to raise these groups specifically on the basis of analyses that would be met together. We were greatly disappointed that the proposal was greatly watered down on the part of the Parliament. But it remained, we can say, a step in the right direction, where the General concluded to hide financial and economic secretary's involvement with the labour market partners and the local representatives on ways to ensure equality with the pay of different professions and also that the remuneration of the remunerations of different professions would be undertaken. in order to obtain gender based pay and to take special note of the work experience of your partner. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How do these discussions with the labour market members and the representatives of the local communities that the General appointed Minister to begin? And what were the results of the analyses of remunerations of different professions that were approved for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u61	A respectable president. As a leader knows, companies, institutions, and communities are now being introduced into an equal pay standard. I hope that in the long run, I will be able to reach the target of the induction. This will lead to progress for the national labour market. This induction is intended to establish and maintain remuneration at work sites. On the other hand, the economist position does not take in pay between workplace and market, the subject of the Parliament's resolution proposal and this inquiry. At this point, it is possible to say that at the scene of the U.S. Council of▁málilation, which is the territory of the country, its local partner, and the city of Reykjavík, there is a final stage for the joint remuneration of the event. I hope this policy will be introduced soon. The aim of a joint pay policy is to ensure equality in remuneration of public workers, to promote the payment of pay signals, to other favours and remunerations and to ensure that the public's competitiveness in the labour market is competitive. The policy also discusses that countries and rural communities will work together on better pay statistics and the joint use of information on pay and pay development. The members also agree with that, i.e. Official employers, working together to analyze the salary and agreement between markets. Official employers will work on this in the near future and, of course, will be in context of a conversation with trade unions and the collective organisation of public employees. For the analysis work, it has been carried out. It has been over a longer period of time because in connection with the changes in the pension system of public workers in the autumn of 2016, it was signed under a declaration that there would be an ongoing assessment of pay between the public and the general market. This work is being carried out by an overall company of public employees. The results of this diagnostic work are to be expected in the months ahead, but as you can see, the complex issue that humans have undergone here is the challenge. If successful, the results of this work may be included in a discussion about the salary of different professions. It has to be said, as it is, that although you want to be optimistic about the results of the analysis work that all people agree on, it is not the experience of the past few years, or decades, I should say, that it is easy to get parties in the public markets and generally to view matters of this kind as well. In there, playing a lot of factors. From now on, the pension rights were a special barrier to comparing the terms. So it was not by accident that a step was reached at the end of 2016, but it was the very thing that we made changes in the pensions in ways that could be taken aside and said: We have now reached equal rights in our pensions and can direct our eyes to the other. What will remain in the discussion, I picture, there are various rights related things, e.g. A law that applies to government employees. We can take as an example a reminders process and other such factors. How will appreciation for this be shown when compared in public and public markets? But to have said this, I hope that we will get a good result. I have here given two examples of the cooperation of a workforce member who is involved in this inquiry, and it has been a fine partnership with the pay record. [[The president calls.]] We know that well - chosen pay statistics are essential to the identification of individual employment groups and sex - income types.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u62	President. I'd only like to read from the information of Iceland's Women's Court of Rights on the Council decision for national reform of the ideals of women's classes. The review is so tight on the position. It says, by permission of the President: The fact is that most women who work within a field of professional work usually pay less than those who work within a staff where men are more than they do. Sadly, we still live in a group where women's work is less valued than men's, where the contribution of women to society is still worth less than that of men. President. I'm interested in hearing the highest opinion. The financial and economic minister is concerned with why the community values the work of women less than the men's jobs and whether the Minister feels that it is normal for the legislator to step in to correct this discrimination, whether the Minister of Ministers considers it to be discrimination, or whether this might be just the normal result of the free market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u63	A respectable president. There are interesting numbers seen in the OECD biomarkers, or ◯Better Life Index in its design. It discusses this position between hours of work, hours of work, pay, and leisure time. It's very interesting to look, for example. that men, according to figures from Iceland, do a lot more than women. But for some reason, women still have less leisure time than men, despite less work. It is simply because of taking into account other nonemployment activities. It is not enough for a woman to do less paid jobs, to work more out of unpaid jobs, and to obtain less leisure time than men do. There's another error there that would be worth taking into consideration in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u64	A respectable president. Last year, the health minister's response to Oddný HardydirdHarðardóttir request for a lack of nurses shows that almost 300 nurses lack enough to finance medical facilities. Their staff and medical staff ratios are also far too small. We all remember, too, how the conversation of the state with midwives who are now under trial to be paid for the work they performed when they were due to be struck by a strike. The contracts of these large groups of women are now being released from BSRB and BHM. A number of cases show that when it comes to dealing with large groups of women, there may not be a direct need for government benefits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u65	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I have to admit, though, that I thought it was a long version of ◯ We're not doing anything about it, are we? Of course, the government has a private discussion and is molding dress policy from normal levels, and it is being done in the wake of all conversation. And, of course, there's a pay analysis on the pension policy, but it doesn't worry about what's being talked about here. This refers to a specific analysis of the status of the female class, both in a public and public labour market, not necessarily just between these two markets, and secondly, which was the core of the original Congress odorary proposal, that the exception of this problem will not be different from that of some agreement between the parties to change this. We know the dolphin race that becomes a workforce each time it is tried to raise individual groups. The approval of those who are not to be raised is required to enable special lifting of these groups. It's a little special, and it's kind of a clear example of our value at work. We build a community of knowledge, but we pay for teachers. We pay the teachers who treat the smallest and most vulnerable individuals, and then it goes up to the university level. I'm telling you, it's a lot harder to be teaching at a high school or a high school, with quite a bit more sensitive or more impact, we can say, a formative effect on the children and the individuals. But this is the underlying value of society. We underestimated caring and education, and these large groups of women, of course, are affected. I want less than ever. The minister to say that Friday is the International Battle Day of Women, and I really hope that the government is taking hold of this matter and being more ambitious and that my fear proves inexplicably that the very changes made in this matter of our last spring have been targeted to destroy it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I don't think people should approach this huge project that's being planned so that it's some kind of pussy for the government not just solved it. We're talking about evolution in a group that's happened in a century, and people come up here in a public chair and say, "Wait, why don't you just solve it for once and then it's just like that? Of course, things don't happen that way. It is true, however, that a broad solidarity is needed between all involved in this matter so that such things could collapse. It is also a matter of examining a variety of ways. I think we only need to open the collective agreement to that, for example. that those who are outstanding can benefit from it. The subject was well spoken of by the teachers'class. What caused these classes to remain in pay for so long? Also involved are rural areas after they accepted the basic school class. I can say with what. A senator when it comes to the importance of a natural reward for important work because it has been shown that the nations that pay the highest pay for their teaching work at the same time produce better results in academic affairs complete. In fact, in lands that seem to be superior in comparison with nations in the field of education, fewer people than they want to be taught. So it is sought after to become a teacher and is well paid for it, and there teachers are also appropriate, let's say, respect in society. [[The president calls.]] But there is too short time to dissect all the huge issues presented here. Why has this happened during this long time? I don't have the answer here in seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u67	Mr. President. It is well - known that the oceans cover two thirds of the earth's chaos. The Icelandic law code is 700,000,600,000 square miles, and we need to look to that area because there is a growing tendency to preserve sea or part of the sea here and where. Great Britain is, e.g. with an ambitious plan called Blue Belt, the blue belt, that looks 4 million square miles. There is an umbrella organization that calls itself Mission Blue, where there are about 200 public organizations that have marked for themselves the 120 areas of hope they call, the ◯hope spots, here and where the world is working on peace. There have been plans in the North Pole to describe up to 10% of the Arctic Ocean into the program slowly. These are ideas that can protect marine habitats, spawning areas, or training stations. There are bottoms, corals, thistles and stuff like that. Of course, the purpose of such peace is direct pollution, restrictions of shipping, and present or possible mining, so I'll mention something else. Here in Iceland, we have a large reservation called British Fun. It is time to analyze more potential areas that might be suitable for peace. I give you more or more coral areas. There are several such areas on the south coast that are protected and may be able to increase them. There are high - temperature areas on record signs, both the levy and the bridge of Sir Francis, and there are cohesive areas in Iceland where mining is already under way. This is a tremendous slow - growing species that cannot cope much with certain areas, and it needs to be looked at and more. Our responsibility is really quite high in this, Mr. President, i.e. To find this balance between natural and natural protection, the sea is indeed the source of enormous wealth and, of course, food as well. There are a variety of international commitments that Iceland has made, and it's a big goal for us to look into global sustainableity. My questions to the highest. Ministers are these: What's the minister's position in order to prepare the peace of other seas in Iceland? How can peace operations relate to international effort in these matters? Is it possible to appease sea areas but to allow them to fish or to use them in a special way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is eager to ask for the peace of the seas in this country. In my opinion, the subject is important and is grateful that it is discussed at the Hall of Congress. I am very positive for ideas of more researching marine habitats in Iceland. If we look at the percentage of peaceful marine areas here, it is very low in international comparison. First of all, I think it is proper to consider why this is so and whether there is no reason to pay more attention to the peace of many and larger areas in the ocean. Of course, in this context, a clear protection goal must be established and an assessment of whether these goals will be achieved by protection of certain areas. It also asks what is the purpose of marine peace, so it can be answered in a variety of ways. Some countries use peace to control fishing, and such regional peace is used in some places to support or replace fishing by other means, such as fishing markets or parish goals. It can be said that these are the temporary closures of the injury, but fishing management, of course, is based on the crop markets rather than on the end of the region. An example of such an area is the area of cold - sea corals on the bottom of the ocean outside the Middle East. Marine peace can also contribute to the protection of environmental and natural phenomena, such as those in the Ecosystems and various marine areas around the environment of nature protection, such as Surtsey and Eley, and the basis for the Snives. I think we need to do better in promoting the protection of life and natural phenomena through marine espionage, and we'll agree with that. Senator. It is possible to name the British Foundation as an excellent example, but the British National Commission has requested a review of the laws on British protection, including the U.S. to make his protection more secure. One way to do this would be to build a national park on the British River. Clearly, such a project would require extensive consultations and would require a total number of nurses. Icelanders are members of the international standards and contracts that run through marine reservations. This includes: What are some goals on protecting territory? At the scene of the Convention on Biodiversity, in 2010 the objective was set for 17% of land areas and about 10% of marine areas to be protected in 2020. Of course, this does not mean that every region or state should reach that number, but it is interesting to examine Iceland's statistics in this light. Over 20% of Iceland's countries are protected according to international standards, but far below 1% of marine areas are legal. Of course, areas should not be at peace to reach a percentage objective, but this raises questions as to whether we have given enough attention to the seabed and the oceanbed during a discussion of nature protection. My opinion is that it is not. Iceland is involved in a regional cooperation on the North Pole reservation, but particularly at the scene of the OSPAR Convention for the protection of the North East Atlantic. That is where we turn in information about a reservation in Icelandic jurisdiction. Iceland has reported 14 protected marines into the OSPAR database, totaling less than 0.1% of Iceland's jurisdiction. None of the 12 coastal countries of OSPAR has been less secure, but the average in the state of law is more than 6%. These statistics raise questions as to whether an Iceland ocean area needs more protection than it is now. These issues are also discussed in international discussions on environmental protection outside the jurisdiction of countries. There, the OSPAR deal has been on a global route and has set up a reservation outside the jurisdiction of states in the Atlantic, the first of which in the world. It's something Iceland was supporting. The value of scientific reasoning and protection guidelines must be clearly established in the marine environment, but for example. not only to put on a compromise in areas where there is no use or plan. This applies to areas within and outside the jurisdiction of countries. Work on such criteria and fields of identification are carried out on the basis of the Convention on Biodiversity and Regionality of the OSPAR Convention and the Arctic Council. We need to focus on this kind of work here in Iceland, as far as I'm concerned. The question was also asked: Is it possible to appease seawaters but to allow them to be fished or used in a special way? And the short answer is: Yes. The same laws apply to marine and marine reservations. The protection of territories can be many and varied. The Icelandic law ensures that marine eco-efficiency is of great importance in decision-making for marine protection whether it is being started on fish control or environmental protection, and I believe that protection and sustainable innovation can work together on this as well as so many other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u69	A respectable president. Thank you for the leader of this great inquiry. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. Iceland is the land of water, and there is, in effect, an inexpensive amount of water that we have actually paid attention to, apart from the inexpensive use of water. It is also shocking how close we are to policy in the affairs of the sea. My name is on the highest. Environment Minister to make the clockfall, as I know he's got a mind full of it. In this context, and in this context, I'd like to mention just one thing that's big, and there's a down payment case in many parts of the country to form in my country where I live, on Elfune. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u70	Mr. President. There is reason to thank for this participation not only the highest. Minister and minister. Senator. Sometimes we, who have such environmental issues, feel that the heart is closer to having a discussion at the Hall on that subject at times. I'd like to establish a specific feature about the uses, i.e. the use of different fishing instruments, because we are talking about the sea, especially bottom lines that have become bigger and more perfect over the years. Their impact on the environment and the environment is very little known. Of course, foreign research is available. Here is one small old study from the Fax Gulf, that's all, so maybe there's a reason to take a closer look. The same is true, since peace may apply to very small areas of special importance. All of this is a project that is faced. The same goes for living things that I mentioned earlier, which are some of Iceland's paraphernalia. Icelandic fjords, especially in the northwestern country, are rich in paralytics, one of the animals that are under the look of OSPAR, perhaps not quite on OSPAR's list. I'm asking a minister if it's not time to start a task group that starts thinking about the peace that we're basically supposed to contribute in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u71	A respectable president. The right to respond to what has been presented here, both in their case. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Thorsson, son of Thor, I believe that all of this will occur in what we lack a little here in Iceland, and there is a clearer policy in the affairs of the sea, as mentioned here. I'd like to mention that on the roads of three schemes, we've been working on over Iceland's protection policies for a long time at sea. I can't quite remember when it was started, but she's been in a state of hibernation for quite a while. I've pushed her again, did it a few months ago. This is not only a vision of the Environment and Resource Ministry but also the Department of Marine Ecosystems. I have discussed this work with the minister of the sea lucid and expressed my hope that we could better explain our policy both within the country and beyond. I think this policy needs to be clearer. I'll work on it in cooperation with others that it will be sharpened, and we'll get some visible milestones in the material as soon as possible, hopefully just this year, e.g. from finishing the work that was started a few years ago and then taking the job when the job does not go away. I also worry about what. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson of some of the factors he mentioned earlier, including slow - growing paralytics. Thank you so much for this discussion. She's very timely, and I'm grateful for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u72	Mr. President. In this request, we'd like to take the highest. A minister from the sea up to the shore because there is a question about nature that has been quite a part of the discussion, sometimes also at the Senate Hall. It's like people know it's different ways. Let me give you the main thing. We can talk about extreme weather conditions, both violent and avalanches, an increase in ocean surfaces that is considerable, depending a little on where we are in the country. It's the thawing of permafrosts in Iceland, especially in mountains where rocks and lands can follow. It is a river of glaciers because there is a temporary rise in emissions from glaciers. Then there are the hysterics, which can be caused by causes such as earth's heat, volcanic eruptions, smiling glaciers, and so forth, as well as by fire influences that may already be made lighter by the glaciers covering large fire stations and, of course, earthquakes. The fact is, during the last 100, even 200 years, we have escaped quite well, especially in regard to difficult volcanic eruptions. They're the only threat I ever listed, if they're very powerful. We could name the Heklugos 1104, Microfowl 1362, the Ovenos 1480, and then the 1,83 Thomson fires. This type of fire failure occurs several times every millennium, and we will experience something like it after a few years, decades, or at the latest some centuries. We see now large main fire stations, five of them, being storing up quick, the Gulf of Grima, the Heclu, the Microchip, the Blue Blue, and the Bath - sheba. The three last three can be very dry - fleshed, and there is good reason to monitor them carefully. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How can we reimburse a checkup that is useful in opposition to nature, where do we get funding, and where to store such funds and such funds? These concerns may not be very thoughtful and rather abstract. It's some feeling of compassion I have, but at least there's a wish to have as solid information when it comes to nature. Let us call this scientific concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is very much acquitted for his inquiry. Iceland's weather clinic monitors the state of nature by watching weather, water, and soil. It is an integrated natural alert, which is probably unique on a global scale. The Agency has a 24-hour schedule for the year, using a wide network of different measuring systems for monitoring and analysis of natural events, such as tsunamis, torrential floods, floodwaters, glaciers, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions. In view of the new climate change challenges, just as important is the work of the Weather Room on all these different aspects of the earth. A senator came in just a bit. Iceland's weather agency believes climate change will affect a wide range of natural hazards. The weather service has progressively added and increased monitoring of the country's key fire stations, which have shown increased effectiveness in recent years. A senator mentioned earlier. These include Heclu, Kate, Beer - sheba, and the Lakes of Gímur. Recently, since the spread of activity in Micro-Europe, monitoring systems due to this have been significantly strengthened, including Because the first eruption at the fire station has caused significant environmental and social effects, as we know. With a large increase in the number of tourists in that area, the damage sensitivity has increased substantially, and dangerous work shows that response due to fire action will only be improved by a better monitoring. According to the Weather Room, the monitoring system in these volcanos is adequate to provide enough warning to be given, provided that there is a premonition in a way known today. The Weather Service has provided a schedule to add to this monitoring system, i.e. Earth, water and weather systems to the future. The aim is to provide sufficient information for the nature monitoring system to assess the situation and to follow it through with the publication of the warnings and forecasts at acceptable advance. The plan will address the gaps already in the system, and the Weather Service has made plans for the next five years, but as a whole the plan will be 15 years old. As regards monitoring on unstable mountain slopes, such a monitoring is present in several parts of the country. For example, recent cracks were discovered in the rock above the lard of Pig Cawdor in the real world. It is believed that large rocks could fall onto the glacier, and monitoring the crack is necessary, evaluating risks for the settlements and tourist areas below the tail. To accomplish this, a measuring system was set up in 2018. For example, due to recent landscaping and echoes that may be associated with climate change affecting permafrost and evaporation, the Weather Service has prepared a memo for memory requests and provided suggestions that have been considered in the Ministry on the increase of lands management and exposure studies in Iceland. It is, in fact, there. the projection of a telemetry study to map possible land rock areas, which would then lead back to their specific monitoring. The suggestions are also suggested to advance the monitoring of flash floods. However, the most widespread impact on society is the weather. A weather view is a measuring device that informs us of the state of the atmosphere in real times. A weather view can distinguish the state and spread of the weather systems and particles, such as ashes, and provide assessments of their upcoming times. A major source of real - time monitoring in the Western world, then, is the constant network of weather maps, making it easier to monitor the development and movement of weather systems. Iceland today has two more stable weather views, but their effective field of vision is limited to 30 to 4.40%. Out of the scope of these weather views, society's vital mechanisms include airports, highways, and electrical distribution systems, as well as avalanches in the Western and North countries. The same is true of the waters of the north and south of the country that have to do with the nation's commitment to the search and survival of the land. In my opinion, it is important to fill in these gaps by building a weather view for weather monitoring, and I believe it is desirable that it will happen in just the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u74	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a natural year monitoring, one of the projects that remain in our community, and it is important to consider how we can improve that monitoring continuously. Therefore, I would like to get involved with the discussion and ask if there is a high cost of improving this monitoring or whether it really is a more serious question about it - I mean an increase in the cost of operating - establishing a specific basic system. Then I wonder if we have enough air support, e.g. For water vehicles, to record precisely where land rises or rises, and no doubt there are other factors to link such factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u75	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. A leader, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for this timely inquiry, and I can say everything he has said. I would like to focus my sights on the volcanic threat, especially the Cornes, in the Southland, and into this discussion the importance of what I believe is improving the public defense system, supporting and promoting it, especially in the South, and the importance of working with the best scientific risk assessment and then making careful feedback plans. It has been shown that the Microfowl is a very dangerous volcano and is an example of this in 1362. I also want to point out, for I have no time, that police expansion is of course very important. The first reaction is everything. This also applies to the other person's response.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his answer. In Iceland's Weather Office was mentioned. There's been an amazing job there. There is no question about this, and cooperation with foreign parties has increased and is of vital importance in this cooperation. However, some romantic wishes have been made from both Iceland's Weather Office and the scientific community, e.g. Geologists at the University of Iceland, on increased contributions to this seminary. You need to add to the constant network, the multitasking network as the highest. A minister mentioned, and then the big question is, Where does that come from, and how much is that amount? Where should they be saved? This is now saved partly in a treasure store, e.g. Volcanal research, which may not be normal. It must be arranged by means of a central service, on one hand, by means of a single hand, by direct nature and research, at all times controlled and financed so that there are not many fundes on which it is covered. I then agree to further the need for public protection. It has been found that there is something else that needs careful consideration. It's a question of whether they need not be transferred from the governor to the Ministry of Presidency. I've been discussing it from here on out of a pendant. And this is what I want to say at the end of the world, that the more than 70 million people in the floodwaters in the country today are going through the floodwaters, the rivers of glaciers and glaciers, and the volcanic eruptions, and the rest of the 70 million in the floodwaters. I thank you again for the discussion, and I hope that she will pass something into these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u77	A respectable president. This question was asked if these factors were sufficient for monitoring. Hence, the difference may vary depending on the factors involved. I'd like to mention what was in my case earlier with the volcanoes, that it's at least assessment by the National Weather Service that the monitoring system in these volcanos is acceptable to provide warnings that are extremely important to the security of people, especially since there are even more tourists in many of those areas. In terms of the air pictures, a very interesting observation was made that I think is worth considering, especially with regard to the elements involved and would be exciting to dig deeper into it. Since we clearly know that we need to expand, I want to mention in particular the weather views that I came in just a few minutes ago. It is the cost that has been paid in at least part of the international community, for it takes a lot more than we, and it's something that needs to be examined now, and I actually have that opinion in the Ministry. Then, in general, I would like to mention that a disaster fund could take on the role of a treasure fund and a treasure fund, or part of it, that would reach both the study parts, whether it was avalanches, landslides, tides, and tides, etc., and then for building forebears. It is now considered to move forward the matter, which has been in the discussion and preparation for quite a while. I thank you again for this fine discussion
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u78	A respectable president. During the recent discussion, there has been a little discussion about the amount of space required to pay, and it seems to who it means and what it is. In view of this, I apologize for the first three questions, which may not be quite appropriate in verbal inquiry, but it is necessary in this context to get the overall picture of what might be allowed to increase the pay grade. In them I ask for the total pay amount in the past five years, land production in the past five years, and what would be expected to be the total amount of pay and land production in the current year. Then there is the fourth question, which is really the main question, and which I hope the greatest discussion will be: Will Ministers find it normal to look to the ratio of total pay pay to the country's pay level when looking at distances to pay less money? What other guidelines suggest that a minister might most likely be used to support discussions about spending time on pay increases may be based on evidence? In this query period, e.g. A discussion of the fourth industrial revolution and the data religion, so to speak, is the case. The prime minister mentioned earlier today, which introduces the automation process, which also involves growth. Then you can ask where such growth is taking place or where you live. Is it seen in this proportion between total pay and national production? How does it spread, where does it go? It goes, for example. to consumers due to increased competitiveness or to those who receive pay for their remaining jobs or otherwise distribute the increase in production? It's a very important question, but it's the beginning point, really, of looking to the big context. Does it give us any evidence of the scope to pay? Or do we need to examine the evidence underneath? Of course, we need to do so if we are to discuss the rewards of individual classes and the like. I can't wait to have a word with the Minister about this. Since she's got Haust on her side, I'll direct the question to her, not to the secretary of finance and economics, which I originally expected I would have a conversation with. But this is an attempt to have this discussion of data drive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This four - part inquiry is the Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. First, the total volume of all pay and total domestic production are asked in 2014◯2018 and how to expect these sizes to develop in this year on the basis of budgetary budgets. That is to say that if we look to 2014, which is the year when we live. A senator at the beginning of his inquiry was a total wage and related fees of 1,050 billion in 2014, which had reached 1,570 billion in 2018. So I'm going to question three, it's this year that the total wage and related fees are expected to be about 1,700 billion. If I then go to national production, it is to say that in 2014, national production was 2,0 billion, but it had increased to some 2,800 billion in 2018. If we look to this year, we can expect to have some 3,000 billion national productions. Hv. A senator also asks: "Is it reasonable for a minister to look at the ratio of pay against national production when there is room to be paid and what other criteria might be most appropriate, such as that there is room for pay to be based on evidence? " I want to say the first thing. A senator says that it is very important that we do better. I did this in a little discussion about a question today about the fourth industrial revolution. It is very important that we plan more carefully as a community when we discuss, for example. pay. One of the things we've been working on is the database taking the story.is that I mentioned at the outset, which is based on actual data from tax records and, on the other hand, on specific occasions, is given preconceived, based on the basis of the amount of repairs and child repairs. This should give some real impression of income development, even though we have a mixture of given causes and real - life data. Then we've been working on a set pay grade frame. It is very important that the workers of the labour market and the government order a collective pay-employment committee which data will be based on prior to the implementation of collective labour agreements. Of course, it has been a problem for people to argue. That is not true elsewhere in the North. There are independent pay-employing committees where the workers meet with the government that simply publish the basics each year or some particular year. They are the basis for collective agreements. I agree with what. A senator when he speaks of the need for good information. Hv. One senator wondered: " What are some other criteria? ' Then I'd like to mention that in Gylfi Zoëgi's report on economic conditions in the face of collective agreements that he wrote for the Ministry of Presidency last summer, it is not possible to present the same evidence between improving the population's standard of living and increasing the pay for work. The pay depends on the value of national product, i.e. Manufacturers, businessmans, professional levels, and foreign debt, such as that of the past. A senator mentions. Substitute agreements, in turn, affect the exchange of income between groups of employees and between employees and employees. Thus, a raise in pay may include transfer of income from employees to remuneration, but it does not necessarily increase the nation's total income. The ratio of pay for land production has increased from 50.5% in 2014 to nearly 56% in 2018. We estimate that this year's share increases to less than 57%, which tells us that the pay rate is unusually high in this country at the time and in Iceland at the highest level of OECD countries in 2017. That's an important fact. However, these facts do not necessarily say everything about what it is or what it is reasonable to do. Rather, they show the connection only between employees and employees. I would like to mention again Gylfi Zoëgi's report, which says that the general scope for overall pay increases, i.e. the standardised elevations and long-term pay drive are the conversation of a planned increase that would normally be 1.5% and theflation targets of the National Bank, 2.5% compared to the unchanged business sector. From there comes the number 4%, which has been held up at this time during a discussion of collective agreements. However, consider that there are other factors in living conditions. That is the discussion we have had with the labour market about what governments can do. Then I'd like to mention, for example. The cost of housing that has increased in many earners, interest levels, and less than the amount of time spent on secular work, leisure time. [[The president calls.]] In my second answer, I'll find out more about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u80	A respectable president. Perhaps fewer people participated in the discussion because it is the last item on the agenda, but I think it's something we should definitely look to more. I find these results very interesting about how the proportion of gross domestic production has increased since 2014. In the larger context, at least in those years, it indicates that, like the Supreme Court, it does. According to the prime minister, the exchange is better off toward remuneration in this matter than in any other matter. This is quite complicated, as it has become a need for housing and growth, which has, in recent years, been very modest in history. That's very positive, but at the same time, housing prices have gone up as never before. This certainly has different effects on the different income groups, suggesting that you need to look at the distribution between income groups. We always talk about the average and how the average goes up and how beautiful it is, but when you watch the two most frequently referred to, the median pay and the average salary, you can see that there's a huge difference. This gives us a clue to a particular change that once again tells us that flat crumbling increases, e.g. for housing and rent, have greater influence on those who are on a lower salary. At least I'm celebrating. the beginning of getting into the discussion numbers about what the space is. Perhaps more than what we should ask about in the future is the scope of our schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-04-74.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. For example, because there are many factors that affect the standard of living and making arrangements other than the salary, a senator repeats his concluding words, how the space is. I mentioned the housing issues. That is why the government has placed much emphasis on maintaining social housing, since we see a correlation between high rent paying so that a higher proportion of their provisional items will be in housing and not just a higher proportion but even more dollars because of the rent market that still needs to be built up in a social way. I'd like to give you another example, including.... will be discussed in a new report on the standard of living for children in 2004-2016, birthworm. When we compare the results with the image displayed in the income history base, we can see that speaking from averages is not easy, that we especially need to look to young people, they have rather been left with older ones. Single parents are those who especially need support, and we should look to what we can do, for example. When it comes to subsidies of leisure, school meals, and extensions, as the author of this report indicates, we have, of course, described our plans to extend our birthmarks. It is a huge matter to bridge a costly load of care, but it also has a major impact on the standard of young children's lives, who are experiencing not only financial expenses but also a great deal of stress as they find room for their children. Thus, there are many things governments can do to improve the standard of living. There is a low rate of growth in historical context, such as cognition. A senator mentioned, and it is very important that the decisions we make here do not result in a longer growth rate, for that, of course, is also a huge matter of life. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry, this is exactly one of the things we need to do more, to discern how we can improve the public's standard of living, and to see to it in a just way. [[The president calls.]]
