ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u1	V.E.G. President. It is not easy for old fighters to make their trip to the Western Islands to rejoice this morning when they saw the cover of the morning newspaper, where they could look at the new ferry on the move. We hope that the ship's delivery will be at the end of March when staff training is completed. Of course, those of us who have endured this battle have been able to pass through various debates regarding the construction and construction of the ship, but I am confident that improved transport to the Western Islands will be evident by the new process. Of course, we want to increase the competitiveness of the Western Islands. We do this by ensuring ways that urban development can go uphill. We make sure that the art of employment in the island can flourish and that all the companies can take their goods away from time to time to Eyja. The ferry's gonna take more passengers than the Navy who sails today. There'll be room for more cars. Private cars will be separated, which means that the fish and waste will not be among the family cars. There are beds in the ship. It will take a similar long ride to the current Navy, but it will take less time to train the ship. At the same time, we assume that the ship's sailing features are less reserved. The bonus then is that the ferry is electrically motivated, which means great things for our environment, as well as saving in the management of the ferry. I look forward to sailing in the middle of a neighboring band in the Aegeans and looking forward to seeing the Western eyes on that good day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u2	A respectable president. Where's the fur? is a question many people ask themselves these days. Despite the fact that the Cradle and the fishing industry have been searching all over the sea, they do not feel that it has always been a quirky fish. Still, our behavior becomes increasingly strange with warmer waters. Although the time for fishing is nearing its end, it is important to keep monitoring for the next few weeks and to engage in progressive future research. The effects of phlegm failures on the updating companies are much like the number of companies around the country, all as their services, such as countries and transport. Besides that, people and homes will lose important income. The rural community with the highest impact in farsighted regions is probably far-off, but the effect may be relatively higher on smaller rural areas, with less resistance to fluctuations, such as the Langanes settlement, weapons farms, and Hornfjords. Farmers are already considering reevaluating financial plans and evaluating the economic impact of hairy failings on urban funds and ports. The impact on the state funds is also high, but the export value of fur is less than 18 billion during 2018, 0.6% of the domestic product. In recent years, prices have been in the range of 1,530 billion, nearly 10% of the number of water exports, often the second most after cod. If so, in 2019 the first year after a hairy hunt began to take place here in 1963, where no hairy fish would be caught. At the same time, there is a concern that there is no fishing agreement with the Faeroe Islands, so there are no agreements on coal fishing in a sophisticated legal record, which is again bitten on the same companies as fellow rural areas. So I want to encourage the highest. Governments, and particularly marine emissary and agricultural ministers, to promote negotiations with the Faulters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u3	A respectable president. It was beautiful to look into the dress code of the Generals when I came here in a house this morning directly from the Allied Committee. There was a beautiful group of children from the nursery class of Rivendell. They were putting on their clothes, their thick jeans, cold shoes, hats, and mittens, all so busy doing all this more and less of their own stuff, to basking. This led me to the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. It says, with the permission of the president, under a museum opportunity: U.S.A. is to be the land of opportunity for everyone. In order for that to happen, the position of those who are determined to do so must be especially strengthened. The best harvester populations in Icelandic society must be evaluated, proposed and followed up. Especially should children living in poverty be considered to be one of the most vulnerable groups in the community. This morning, the group in the clothing pocket brought my thoughts to another group in Icelandic society. This includes some 6,000 children. They live in poverty in Iceland. There is now a debate between the state, the trade, and the union. They are more likely to turn to a low - paying group of workers in the country. So it makes it easy to reason that the above - mentioned group of poor children belongs exactly to the present - day group in our discussion of improved standards and a decent quality of life. I encourage the government to keep this connection in mind in continued discussion, and do not forget that this is the key to creating an equation, providing equal opportunities for the children of this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u4	President. Yesterday, two of my queries were distributed to two ministers. I'm so excited about them that I can't wait to get the answers and I'll just come in on them. They depend on whether or not the terms of the use of common resources and the property of the state will be guaranteed by the non-carbonization of the newborns. Thus, financial and economic ministers are directed on the other hand and on the other hand, aquaculture and agricultural ministers. So there we wonder, " Can the use of common resources be conditioned?'And there comes the fishing resource of all of us, perhaps the first thought, of the fact that a carbon sharelessness is being guarded. I can't wait to have a word with a minister about the queries when verbal answers are received. I wanted to draw it up here because I think we need to, and I think we're all agreed on that in the hall, doing so many things together if we're going to make some changes when it comes to climate. Many times, I have felt that we are a little waiting for one of the big answers, the big solution to save everything. I don't think that's the way it is. On the contrary, we all need each of us, as a community, to come together in so many areas, in small and large. There, of course, governments can do things that are beyond the reach of individuals. Some way in which we define how our common resources can be used so that our carbon abstraction is cared for, I think it's very good to examine both our sea resources and our other resources, e.g. energy resources. Like I said, I want to draw attention to this. There are other queries from other causes. Councilmen associated with carbon and climate matters and very interesting and nice to see that these matters are all in our minds, as needs are needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u5	Mr. President. I just want to talk about the diamond ring. It is a road that passes through Húsavík by the floor, and the soundlets to the rock Falls, to the lake of Mice, and to the valley of Rhine, and the Valley of the Great, and again to Húsavík. The circle consists of natural marvels located at the diamond ring or within a 20 - mile [20 km] drive distance from it. The Diamond Ring passes many of Iceland's major natural bulbs. As I said, it's a Fallifos, one of Europe's most powerful falls, and an icebox, which has long been the popular destination of tourists, and I'm not talking about all the natural bulbs at Lake Mey, Dimuborgs, Who Mountain, and many other things. Also, there is a short drive from the ring to the famous Goad Falls in Iceland's religious history. It's also a short flight, i.e. Húsavík Airport. I want to, in view of what's been happening here lately and was last in the news last night, I'm reminded, where it was spoken of as unable to go down a faraway way, saying that it's a matter that we have to enter into the council. We need to set up a new so-called snowstorm rules, as the road falls under the G - rule of the Roadmaker for winter service, and that's just shoveled twice a year. It's totally unacceptable when we're trying to open new portals into the country, as if we've been flying to Akureyri, 350 people straight from the UK, regularly flying every week, that we can't use the pearls that are best in the environment. In addition, we look at the development of an area's population, surrounding which are fractured areas, and if all of this is to grow and thrive, we have to make sure that money is available to shovel there and we can use this pearl of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u6	A respectable president. The hospital is still waiting for the funding we thought we had given to the operation just before Christmas. There was a call in the community. Tens of individuals had died here untimely, but now they're talking about this budget, these 150 billion. Q, should be divided into 12 months, as the project has been so far in terms of the management of the UK. It is surprising that today, in an increasing drug crisis, we are seeing that the emergency service is being sent a long nose and shown contempt, as is true today. The number of insurgents at the Hospital Vog is now to be reduced by about 400 this year. They've dropped the walking department in Akureyri. We're talking about an emergency if I get it right. A respectable president. I can't figure out how we can understand this extra donation so much that we've been calling on so much different from that we've wanted to face the great problems, the premature death, and try to do everything we can to protect ourselves from getting treated, to get professional help. The fact is that none of these are anything like the experience and the knowledge to handle the problem of alcohol and addiction other than that of Vogi as well as of the staff in it. Once again - here I will come every day that I possibly can, calling for the fulfillment of my goal. Although it is said that there was no particular objective in this budget, and the highest. Health Minister seems to intend to deliver this on a better basis, but it doesn't change the fact that all of us here knew the purpose of this extra deposit to the hospital house of Vigs, as I would like to call it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u7	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna be in the same direction, or I'm gonna be in the same place as what. paritaprevir Sæland Goland was here on the last talk, discussing the situation in the United States and its activities. Well, it's very impressive news that there's been a closing parade and that the money marked by shortening the waiting list to Vogi, that we thought, or at least I weighed when I voted here for Christmas for this 150 million, is not marked directly, but something about walking departments. Still, somehow it is a dam, so it is also to be shut down. I want to direct my words to the highest. Secretary of health. I feel and know that the Minister is working his mind to build up the health system and thus to provide an welfare system around alcohol and alcohol abuse. The minister will be talking about a complete picture when it comes to psychological, mental, and alcoholism, as I have often talked about with the wait list at Vogi. But only in those suffering from this disease, who suffer from psychosis, bipolar, and psychiatric disorders, can there be no work in the psychological or mental aspect unless the individual escapes from ingestion and is helped on its feet in this regard. Then you can start working on your psychology and mental health. Alcoholism is the fundamental problem of the sufferer. So there is little prejudice in this, and prejudice is caused by ignorance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u8	A respectable president. Recently, during an interview with a health minister, I discussed the issues of the elderly, and I will recall that I am still over the situation of certain elderly and sick people today. Malturbance, loneliness 24 hours a day, isolation, isolation of people to talk to, sadness, no complaining, no thinking of them, unsecure food security, low food supply, poor nutritional conditions, wanting to stay out of the way. This is true of the elderly who have less than 200,000 K. each month's preparation for the aging department of the Land Hospital was dated at 775 to 93 years of age. 70% of the microchip has approximately 200,000 k. to survive. There are another thousand microsurgents that have been affected, and it looks like they're living under impairments, even though it's over the past ten years and it's going to last for the next few years because the government says it's so difficult to calculate this. At the end of each month, I ask: Where are these people to operate? Should it cut down the medication? I think a lot of people have already done that. Is it to cut down food? People are cutting down food, they don't have food for dinner at the end of the month. What may be the scariest part of this is how many children are living in the forwards of these people, i.e. another one thousand live in breeding areas and in micropairs, 70% under minimal growth. If we look at the results of malnutrition, we will see that malnutrition results in irritability, agitation, memory loss, depression, anxiety, and loss of motor skills. [[The president calls.]] Is this what we're offering to the worst man out there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u9	Mr. President. Now we're getting reports that SÁI's closing down the walking department in Akureyri tomorrow. Last January, at the end of January, I spoke to a minister about the walking services in Akureyri, which was also planned to close and how men would react. FEW, more than 900 million each year are funded for their activities, and then they have self - resources, which are in the context of the remaining 400,6500 million. This work in Akureyri has cost some 20 million each year. This business has been paid 5 to 6 million a year. The news is coming on day by day's notice that tomorrow will close this activity, which is extremely important and will cover very large areas of prevention and other challenges facing the problems that the UN will face. Funds for 2019 that we agreed on in December made it very clear that 150 million should go to a walking unit in Akureyri and in Reykjavík. There was nothing to do with the discussion in a budgetary committee, where we agreed that there should be 150 million for the activity involved in walking departments in Akureyri and in Reykjavík. However, there seems to be some big problem now between health insurance and the UN to agree on how to use this budget. The news is very surprising, and just as soon as you get the news by these routes at the council last night about what the situation was like, that it's going to happen tomorrow. Now I encourage the health insurance and the UN to finish their business so that they will be working on it as a financial committee and the council approved in December on this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u10	V.E.G. President. I was going to discuss the four freedoms, the sovereignty, and when rules outweigh the goals we want to achieve. There's a bill coming from the highest. Aggressor in which we react and take our decision that the Icelandic government has not imposed strict rules on preventing the import of fresh non-fried meat to this country, that the requirements for importation and the 30-day cryoconservation should be prohibited and violated against the EEA Convention. I can make it clear. A minister is responding to responsibilities as he is obligated to do. I can show that customs and various seas and inhibition of trade between nations impair foreign trade management and that such agreements, such as the EEA Convention, have been made to increase the profits of such trades, that the four freedoms, the free flow of capital, product, service, and people, are aimed at it. I can show understanding that this may involve a profit for consumers, for business interests, and the prospect of improving the standard of living. But there is, of course, another aspect of the matter when we appreciate the national standard of living and future interest, the side that turns to Iceland's speciality in the purity of food, farms, sustainable agricultural production, safety and public health of the nation. In this case, I find it obvious that the sentence means that the rules outweigh the targets we set in this case, defending Icelandic farms, defending Iceland's special status, defending the real threat of sustainable agriculture, future food production, a threat to national health and food security.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u11	Mr. President. I want to use this opportunity to discuss hospital services outside the capital area. Western islands depend on safe medical flights, where 24 hours of medical surgery was terminated in 2013. The year in 2013 - and this was particularly justified in the Western Islands as a operating room - was a medical plane that had previously been located in the Western Islands in Akureyri. Of course, it follows a double duration of response when they call out a medical plane to the Western Islands. All of this has had a very serious impact on Western health care. In 2018 a medical plane or helicopter had to be called for medical transportation in the Western islands on average 2.7 times a week or almost every other day. Mr. President. Since birth service in the West is a low - risk unit, it is now born in the last five years only a few children a year. The fact is, the vast majority of Western ears are born in the New York City Hospital. This involves a tremendous amount of excitement, loss of work, and cost for pregnant women and their families to move to Reykjavík for a few weeks before the birth of their child. Mr. President. There is a need to improve, either to restore the operating room in the Western Isles of the Health Organization or to install a special medical helicopter for the Southland. Mr. President. The condition of health care in the Western Islands is not acceptable. It is not acceptable that as large a community as the Western Islands need to live in this condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u12	A respectable president. Today I propose a proposal for a hearing of the change in pay fees of the state and its institutions. It hides the state and organisations of the remuneration package, on the other hand, the stated amount of revenue tax. Also clearly stated is the amount paid by the worker on bail. Why do I and some of my fellow members suggest this arrangement? Yes, to increase transparency in the tax system. To increase general knowledge about how tax dollars are divided between rural and state, and knowledge of fees, insurance expenditures, such as other remunerations paid by remunerations. This suggests that the State will set a good example and change the format of its pay money immediately. It is reasonable to know how much money these figures are paid to the state and how much of their community is paid to the government. All employees with $755,000. In a month and under a month, the amount paid to the country is higher than the state. It can be a good thing for all to know how they are paid. It must be the goal of all of us here to try to reduce people's burdens and to play all these factors together, especially real estate costs. Most rural societies do their job well, and they tend to help reduce the tax and the cost of people, such as real estate costs. Last night, news came that the community of the Rangers was meeting with local property owners by reducing property charges. We need to understand the consequences of the rise in taxes. Real estate taxes in the Reykjavík hotel, except for some 16 million more this year. In that hotel, the maid's salary could be increased by 26%. [[The president calls.]] Let's think about where we can reduce taxes, where we can ease the burden of companies and people to increase their standard of living in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u13	Mr. President. Reports that phlegm is not found in sufficient quantities in Iceland's centres during the present season are a concern, but it becomes clear that its economic impacts are going to be large, particularly on the rural areas where sophistication is an important factor. Has, for example. The Faraway Society described serious concerns about the situation as well as the fact that anticarbon contracts have not yet been completed in a sophisticated novel that also has a major impact on the upkeep. A statement by the Board of the Far East asked the government to handle the situation well, ending a great deal of interest for both countries and rural groups. But we should also consider and investigate the cause. Climate change, acidification, and changes in marine temperature are most likely causes. As noted in the news recently, in recent years we have seen changes in walking patterns in our most important institutions, as well as numbers of new kinds in Icelandic jurisdictions while others are shrinking or even disappearing. A report by the North Pole monitoring group AMAP on the study of the cod population in the Barents Sea suggests that the combined effects of warming and acidification are particularly negative for the codfish population in the Barents Sea. Mr. President. What's the situation on the ocean around Iceland? Unfortunately, the fact is that we do not know, since there is a great lack of research in marine life, especially ecology research that is more closely linked to our knowledge of the environment and life forms. We have to do these tests no later than now, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's time to go to the lab. A government to take the necessary steps for this to happen, even along with the natural means of working with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u14	Mr. President. V.E.G. Agrienvironmental ministers could do nothing but follow the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court's decision to import fresh meat. For ten years the government has taken decisive and fairly conscious steps to shun the EEA agreement, our most important business contract in this area, costing tens of millions of dollars. But what I find in these days even worse is that there are still ministers in the government who believe that even the decisions to follow and who to shun can be handled by hand. I must say that I am now afraid of this situation in which we are in, being with three conservatives, how they've been talking about this case, that they will ultimately succumb to the incomprehensible fear of life. When it comes to fresh meat, this is nothing more than panic propaganda. If you read paper where experts, including The Ministry has claimed to produce no effect on cryo-related patients. More than that, frozen duty is a highly targeted technical obstacle to aggress competition. It is not of good things, and we are thus looking at it. I also fear that the government will not only give in to fear but also develop new ways to break the EEA contract. We should keep in mind that vast interests are spent in maintaining the EEA agreements, not only the great interests of consumers, but also the great interests of exporting such as the oceans. There were candidates, politicians of all categories, very aware of when the EEA deal was signed at its time. These weigh men, and they put them on account of them. Of course, no one wants to threaten public health, but everyone wants a powerful agriculture. Therefore, I would much rather encourage people and us who are in this room than just farmers and the whole article to use this opportunity, use it as a parish, pursue an increase in competition, because with increasing attendance and competitive competition, it will lead to good results like a better product selection, more product selection for Icelandic consumers, which is only of the good. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's watch this as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u15	A respectable president. Today, ocean-surpass and agricultural ministers have published a projection of the bill to respond to the natural EFTA Court's findings. It's about the import restrictions on fresh meat to the country. The bill expects the import of raw unheated meat and bulging eggs. The noxious import of raw meat and disinfectants is part of the nation's contaminants, centered on the future state of the country. With the approval of the bill, we as an independent nation are giving up by allowing free import into raw meat. The consequences are not clearly seen. Those who have been talking about unregistered import of meat point out that it can return to a lower food prices. The interests of consumers are not just about what they eat and how much it costs, but what they eat. We must not give up if the EU calls out. We need to maintain our defenses regarding the special status of our nation and our country, which must weigh a little in overall and therefore precious to hold on to it. The state of the country is built on, among other things. the purity of farms we've been able to maintain because of our land. We need to protect ourselves from the threat of potential antibiotic resistance. The bill doesn't handle them properly. These interests are as precious to us as the purity of air and water. It's political, and it's got great interests at stake. Therefore, Icelandic rulers need to step on the ground and have a conversation with those who control the European Union. EFTA judges are rendered by law and order, and results are derived from those who cooperate with them. Are we really going to submit to it? There is a higher stairway and an agreement on notation; it is acknowledged that we need time to adjust and build real defenses. A risk analysis needs to be performed to assess the consequences for Iceland. It cannot be the European Union's will that we become experimental animals in these compounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u16	President. In its simplest form, what we are discussing is thus increasing that by 2015 the government's efforts to deal with 1,200 billion dollars were introduced. a difficult, so - called snow hang, capitalism that proved to be a rapid search for money from the country if a capital head was removed. $1,200 billion. Then it was made clear that the action would mean that everyone would have to contribute, in fact, provide property in a variety of ways that would have to be removed. What is now suggested is that of these 1,200 billion, all would be paid to be released from the land except for the last 84 billion. Of 1,200 billion, this is just the last 84 billion, since the state is not going to collect any fee for an outing. In other words, the prize is to be paid especially by those who have wanted to participate in making emissions available and restoring the Icelandic economy. They alone receive the prize of taking their money for no price. This is headed for the International Parliament today. It is, of course, contrary to the proposed plans presented in 2015, with the main emphasis on equality and the need for everyone to contribute, the least of which would be awards for going against the course necessary to overcome seas. But now the conclusion is that only those who were not willing to participate are allowed to take their money out without paying for it in one way or another. I think it's fitting for the 3rd. to recall only the lead in this action and then the lead to the position that has now come up with this bill. Before the election, I proclaimed that due to the scope of the snow - handed problem, it would have to be sure that much of those properties, which were certainly not the government's property, would be handed over if there was to be a way to lift the seas. I noted that there are ways to get this money. I think it's safe to say that the claims, in order to be said in a mild way, made them claim that they were the greatest campaigns in history, were illegal, were inconceivable, never went up, were nonsense. Nevertheless, I claimed this, and after the election was made by the government, it began as a work to implement it. A special tax was originally laid on the branch office of the bank. That was one of the things that had been said inexpensively, there could not be a tax payment on an swollen farm or a broil, and the least could be paid in debt. However, it was possible to finance the debt of Icelandic households with a financial loan that had been particularly ill from the fall of the crown. The next step was to attack the seas, and as I could earlier, a whole plan was presented to me in May 2015. During the work, the people had not taken part in the fact that those with huge interest here would care for, debino owners, and broilers, would not easily accept what had been proclaimed, they would be paid a special price for taking their money out of the seas. It is safe to put it into words that there were conflicts between the government and those in which they took various manifestations, since they were willing to protect large financial resources in the country and to use various means to achieve their interests. They were even. for a time, with all the larger law firms in the country working for themselves in one way or another, and a great deal of public relations agencies, for example, used various methods and pressures. Nevertheless, the government recognized that the plans would be followed and when it came to the presentation in May 2015, we stressed that this presentation would be clear and clear, without any doubt as to the method and outcome. One would see the advantage of playing along with it, not resisting it. And so it turned out that in the first phase to the bickering, hundreds of billions were delivered to the State. The majority of the property involved, the snowbolts, was handed over to the land, and, of course, was unique, had never happened anywhere before in the world. These were the 3/4 parts of the snow hanger, i.e. the one that turned to the stretcher. ............................................................................................... The method was the same, in order to ensure that only a person can see the benefits of a few while playing along and delivering a portion of these assets. It was said that, in fact, the media said that at least there must be a need for at least. In fact, the total number of property below which were less than 30 in the first century C.E. was 30,40%. This was to happen in October 2015. It was important to have intervening in this and that everything is moving rapidly. There was a delay in the fact that the Council of Jehovah's Witnesses was prepared to direct the foretold procedures, yet we had been joined by a very capable foreign adviser, including. Perhaps the world's foremost authority on such projection, Professor Paul Klemperer of Oxford University, who had even With good results, such measures were directed for the U.S. Bank of England and the U.S. Penitentiary. Nevertheless, the project was delayed, and the government was running very regularly after the proposed operation. Finally, the country in it was seen and the case was to be completed in the spring of 2016. After I stepped aside as prime minister and announced that I did so specifically so that these important plans might be completed, and the government could work without interference. The late bank presented an auction, introduced it in May, and that was to be done in June, but there was only a different method to which government plans had been published, although a one - time operation was to be resolved. On this, only on a very small scale, the owners of the Offspring agreed to get a better vote, and they began to review some of the arguments that had been applied, including the following: in the propaganda of the hedges -- these were hedge funds in both cases - and were told that the terms were not acceptable, this would not be legal, economic candidates would not be available to make so much demands, etc., all familiar theme. Then they continued in law and litigation and even the same. Please report to the EFTA Control Agency. EFTA fully and more definitively concluded that the measures as directed by the government were allowed under the EEA Convention. Yet, that did not change, for the retreat continued. I've traced it here in a few speeches in what it appears to be, and it did nothing but include the spontaneous announcements of the Pentateuch. Each step gave more and more to follow. How, then, did these individuals react? Were they grateful that the gift had been given so often? No, of course, they expected that even more will be left behind. This continued in the following years, and at the same time, we watched the surrender of Aion's bank, which involved a reversal of what had been gained in the affairs of the broken - ups. With the leftovers, the retreat continued, although no one was allowed to deliver such money from the country without paying the government's fee. The price men had to pay to get out of the house was generally reduced. This included retreating. Until now, however, all the owners of this 1,200 billion dollars have. Paying was needed to clear the budget and thus participate in the economic restoration of the land. Now, however, it is true that those who have spent all this time fighting against, are especially willing to participate in the economic restoration, were at the least ready to participate in the preparation of the requirements for emissions - now the council is now planning to agree with the primary project that they alone are allowed to take their money out without paying any price. How much would that have been? Well, if we were to make the best offer from the Federal Bank in June 2016, we would pay about 23 billion dollars, but it would hardly be reasonable to aim at the best price offered to those who wanted to be first involved. Rather, it is reasonable to look to the 303/40% criteria. So it is safe to state that in a certain way, this will be about 30 billion dollars, 30 billion dollars. A prize from the EEA and its support groups to those who were least willing to participate in the economic activities of the country. It is a very peculiar message to the government to send that methods used in this matter work better than to follow what the government puts up with. In other words, it's not necessarily the government in Iceland when they say, "This is what it's gonna be. " Even techniques, such as those used in this case, go a long way toward getting the owners of the country involved in a political campaign for international elections in Iceland, trying to influence the outcome of total elections and government policies. In fact, they wanted governments to have all other policy, they were not afraid to promote that propaganda, but they were trying to influence the outcome of the election in order to achieve such a change of policy was a complete novelty in this country and, in fact, a surprising fact, that the matter has not been studied beyond the facts. Now, the change in policy that these parties fought for has been achieved. Then, to the small extent attempted to back up this bill, only one member of the council, whose character had to be presented, has held talks on this issue in the 2nd issue. and only one member of the Parliament gave a talk about the matter in 1 Corinthians. Environment, secretary of finance, who completed it in record hours, six minutes, and yet had 30 minutes to account for the case. The only sound of logical support is that economic criteria are no longer available to complete matters in the proposed way. Of course, this is a perfect scantle. First, when prospects were considerably better than they are now, including, in the course of the summer of 2016, economic factors will be sufficient to compare with the criteria that were before the end of the year 2016. on continued growth in currency levels. At that time, however, the Secret Bank was no longer available to offer more than 190 k. for the euro. Although the bank's documented gangs were similar back then, they were ready to take. Now that economic outlook is less than the summer of 2016, in many ways and in a similar place, people try to rely on economic factors and change in them to argue that there is a need to give all they have to give up on these last sources. The evidence is in itself bad enough, but worse, it is known from the beginning that economic conditions would significantly improve as soon as all of these measures are carried out. We rely on it. Thus, it was known that it would be possible for some to want to wait until economic conditions legalized and first ask for the release of the funds. This was expected. Hence, in a very clear and repeated way in government plans to ensure that there would be no profit in becoming what was called a dessert, in other words, that if people were to apply this method used by those who hold these 84 billion, they would do no better by doing so than those who were willing to participate in the restoration work. Now, the very conclusion is that the payoffs are strictly rewarded. It has been interesting in this matter's discussion to review media discussions and reports of the events all over the world of hard - worked efforts to really please and negotiate with these African owners and to respond to their demands by continuing retreat. I'm going to quote one of these articles. She's wearing the inscription both of them. She's wearing the title. It happens that it is written in April 2016, i.e. at the time when the matter was to be closed, as I mentioned earlier in a talk. The concluding section in the article, which is left Hörður Ægisson, a newspaper reporter, and the current editors of the Market Board, is as follows: As with the demands of the old banks, the owners of an Off-country must look to no improved foreign status of the population in any way in order to escape from the seas. Instead, the good situation that has developed for the sake of a continuing major business investment during the past few years will be new to meet hundreds of billions of dollars of accumulated foreign investments in Icelandic pensions and businesses. To ensure such conclusions in this next major U.S. dropoff step, it is necessary to rely on solid political leadership rather than on the prevailing judgment of officials. I have often criticized the system, which has become a lot in Iceland and, in fact, in other places and that politicians are too often confused about their role and officials. This does not make me critical of government officials, since the responsibility is with politicians and should be there. Officials have an enormously important role, and they did so, for example. to prepare and conduct the procedures I traced earlier. However, the officials do not plan the course, nor do they make the decisions - or are not supposed to. When making major decisions and dealing with major solutions, political solutions and political leadership are needed. I don't think she was there in this case lately. We see this case presented here on the basis of the Agency rather than on political grounds. I traced it earlier that in the middle of a day's discussion of this matter, only one of its supporters would have trusted to come up here and defend it, but his talks were about reading the committee's opinion and the dates and that men had not spoken enough at one point and too much at another, and so on. In reply, words such as a building of property were heard to say that this was a form of property if they were not going to let this capital all out without any payment. This is a word I know of since the 2013 election campaign. I certainly heard it often when the action was under way. This, however, came naturally from the opposers, those who wanted to prevent the outcome. We can imagine whether the people who claim to have a property record would pay the last 84 billion of the 1,200 paid otherwise would have carried out plans as described in 2015's presentation. This is not a possession tape because there was one going over everyone to make it possible for society to lift seas. It does not seem, however, that one thing will pass over everyone, for the last 84 billion will go out without charge. So, in fact, we hear a unique argument that it needs to be completed quickly because a section of the 84 billion people owns of this 84 billion has a bond that has arrived on paydays, and people would like to keep them quiet in the hope that they invested in new government bonds instead of taking the money elsewhere. They may even fear that they will take the initiative to sell their deportations into a foreign market. It's a little strange if you're really worried that these people could clean up selling their leftovers at a national market, obviously at a discount, rather than wait a few days to get paid off this case, which assumes that they'll get all the money. It is claimed to be owned by some fund management agency that has as a work order not to have free funds, but no one has thought of asking whether money in the seas can be considered free money. These efforts to push the matter through began right in December when they were to slip it in on the last day of the council, reasoning that it would have to be discussed to ease the market, as it was said. The whole thing couldn't be discussed, and I don't think the market noticed. The evidence that, as it may be, the economic situation no longer allows for man to complete the plan or that some people with government bonds could be promising investors, so we need to speed up the situation not to control them, there is no reason to disappear from a plan that has yielded the results of these measures, actions that have yielded more economic reversal than there are any examples in any country, at least the second time. I challenge someone to point out another such reversal, whether in view of the state's financial status or its factors, better dressers, more economic growth, more social growth, and all of this in record time. In contrast, after World War II, Britain fell into great trouble and actually went bankrupt in 1949. If I recall correctly, about 30% of the land's production was in the snow - handed area, and it took 30 years to melt them. The snowpang in Iceland was 112% of land production and was removed by one operation or would have been removed by one operation if the proposed procedure had been completed. Some people are concerned that there are those who have not wanted to play along in the seas. Other countries and e.g. The Asian iceberg, the Asian financial crisis, in the 1990's, was extremely difficult for the countries in which it landed. It continues to show that those who did not want to play with the problem are trapped like in South Korea, where they have been trapped since 1998, but here we hear the old song that the international community, the global financial system, and the belief that the best way to get men to believe in Iceland, the best way to improve Iceland's credibility as an investment option, is to yield to those who are least willing to cooperate in economic development of Iceland. This is the result of a 1,200 billion dollars. only 84 billion snow hangers. These 84 billion are the only amount of 1,200 billion that humans should not pay a special price to receive. This suggests the administrative body, supported by seemingly all groups except the Central Party, but has not trusted to appear here on a public hearing and defend the matter to some extent, and suggests that it does not suggest that men are as proud of the case as they would like to be in the few expressions that they express themselves on the subject. Of course, I hope this will not be the result, but the honest efforts of the Middle Class to get a proper political discussion about this, which hopefully might have some effect on the human attitude, it seems, has nothing to do with those who are going to follow this issue blindly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u17	Madam President. Although we may still have the day to do so, we are ready to close the discussion. I think it is my right and duty to speak up and consider a few things. As I came to the 2nd. We have approved this bill, which, of course, I hope, and we have no reason to believe that it will happen here, to take yet another step in creating a healthy budget for the Icelandic economy, to ensure a healthy working environment for the Icelandic company, that there will be opportunities to use financial instruments like other countries that we would like to compare ourselves with. In this regard, you are taking a very positive step that turns out to be enchanting. I think it is true, however, that when the currency capitals were placed here in their time, after the collapse of banks, and the tremendous economic difficulties of the unpredicted nation, most of them were agreed or convinced that the currency was only temporary. Even at the outset, it was a period that could last for perhaps two years, but after those two years, there was an opportunity to lift them and return to healthy surroundings. This proved to be wrong, and the course of action lasted longer than any expectations, causing damage to the public, to Icelandic companies, and to the economy as a whole. No free nation can in the long run provide a capital master in the way we were here, but from 2015/2016 onward, it has been a progressive step to reinvent ourselves into a healthy environment. In March 2017, the majority of the deltas in themselves were still in place. Here, too, were the influx of a so - called influx head, which has cost us dearly. I am one of those who have criticized how long they have lasted. I find it appropriate after this long discussion to give a witness, with the permission of the president of the United States, in an article written here in the March 2017 issue of this magazine. There I put the words: Of course, it is quite simple to thank certain individuals when an important milestone is reached - a phase that marks the beginning of new times and is said to leave the past. But if there are some who add more weight to the scales than others, it is Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, former prime minister, and Bjarni Benediktsson, prime minister, and former financial minister. A single policy of the future government of the forwarding party and of the 2013 Independence Party towards the swellingrs of the bank changed the situation completely. A stable development and a reasonable plan for emissions of capital flounder yielded a number of milestones over the past year, enabling to defuse the oceans... I say in this article that this is creating a more healthy budget for the economy and for the Icelandic economy because of the crippling nature of the business, the growth of companies, and the growth of the business. The debilitating hand of the seams makes innovations and wands quite difficult, especially when they're trying to make aground on the foreign markets. Under the oceans, some companies were forced to seek out less effective ways to achieve their goals and to pursue what was established. I'm not going to argue with why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, to say that this is a time to sacrifice some material interests for the State. Hence, there is no reasonable argument because it provides a basis for which they have no basis for giving themselves. It's just that way. There is nothing to tell us, and it would really be against common sense to believe that those bound here in debrelicts would participate in an assignment that led to a conclusion far from what is now officially written. There is nothing that can substantiate the claim, but there is another point that I believe is that it is important for senators to keep in mind when they finally take the commission to issue the bill, that is, of course, the fact that we are taking certain steps to eliminate the influx seas. With payment and approval of this bill, as Iceland's Secret Bank points out in its review of the bill, there may be grounds for a significant decline, even to the point of the special binding of capital flows at the same time as decontributions are released. The exception of the influx seas will be of enormous importance to Icelandic business and employment life, that there will be and will provide a setting that allows foreign investors to come in healthy ways knowing that they can invest here and that they do not have to invest a portion of the money they enter in in the way that is done in small or no interest. Only that point should lead to all members of Congress giving this bill a team, or at least does not interfere with its progress. The point has not been discussed in the last few days, but I feel that this is just the way it is to point out and the importance of this goal. I know why. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson is one of the best people sitting in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u18	I'm not against that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u19	- No, I'm good at that. A senator declares it, making my heart glad that it is reasonable to conclude that it will help to bring about that matter. Madam President. We're here to take one of the final steps we've taken to establish a setting that's healthier than we've ever done. That has been the goal since the beginning. There has been goals. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson also took part in the molding work, so we should not forget that every foundation for the oceans we have laid is no longer there. Justice is no longer there, binding men to the head, and actually robbing them of the rights of property, because I know that the right of property is as dear to members of the Central Party as to us in the Independence Party, and, in fact, all of this council hall, I think. This is what we are fulfilling, my dear. Senators, whom we as a free nation have voluntarily submitted to our business countries and to our fellow citizens, to the International Bank of Credits, to the OECD, are now not talking about the member countries of the EEA Treaty. This is to be a cause for joy when we act in such a way that we are fulfilling the requirements and responsibilities we have endured and, more important, have promised and promised to fulfill them. It is a promise that we voluntarily made and unneeded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u20	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have one question to ask. Senator. Today, the original amount of about 1,200 billion of this amount has been published, of which 1,116 billion went out on certain markets set out in the spring months of 2016. There are 84 billion of those owned by hedge funds and under the control of U.S. management companies who have been driven by their propaganda to do nothing. Trying to influence the election in this country. Now these funds have won the bet. They're going out on better terms than the ones that went out in the spring months. I'm asking why. A senator: What is the loss of a government fund? What is the difference between the billions of dollars, if these 84 billion had gone out at the same time as the largest of the crown stocks that went out in the spring of 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u21	Mr. President. Hv. A client assumes that the government has a legal authority to force the owners of these off-countries to accept an offer. It's not. Hv. A senator has to realize that there is a difference between the property and, for example, the kind of property. We're going to go to the banks. These thumbs are not at hand. A senator dreams. Of course, he can count back and forth, saying: "Well, if it had been like this, as if ever in the past, the loss of income or income is in this way. These criteria are not available, and they can't be done, huh? A senator, to approach the matter in a way that allows men to force them to accept a certain offer made by the Icelandic State in these assets. It's not. I was saying here earlier that there is no reasonable argument that is based on the claim that the owners of a foreign property, these 84 billion, are ready to submit to some offer that is less disturbing than the written gang today. [[The president calls.]] Not what. A senator or anyone else has given reasonable reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator here spoke of thumbs. There are now no thumbs because they were relaxed. That's the point. The government said something but did something else, and this is the message in the international community. Hv. A senator is so worried that investments may be in danger because of the message being sent out in the international community, etc. But what is this message being sent? They're sending a message that the Icelandic government is acting aggressively, but it's okay, they're just relaxing. The message is this, one is said and another is done. This concern is what concerns the international community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u23	Mr. President. The message being passed on to this bill is that this is becoming a normal society, a natural currency market, a natural budget between Iceland and other countries, and that Iceland intends to be among the free and successful countries. Well, that's the message, isn't it? Senator. It's a false claim that there are only some hedges that own this 84 billion. You're wrong. A senator, a false claim, and a sledgehammer. paritaprevir The Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson can confirm this, and it clearly appeared at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee with the staff and with the Secret Bank specialist last night. A man who's got no balls. So a senator is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u24	Mr. President. It's no secret that we've had a long visionally going together, at the moment. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson, from the moment we were in the administration of an ideal society, the Union of young independence, in fact, along with a Brynjar. Ásmundur Our Níelsson has been to promote freedom to word and vein, supporting rights, human rights, and respect for the law. Hv. Yet, a senator is not in a position to be able to, rather than anyone else, to be a freedom hero in decomposed capitalists. In most respects, we live in a free system of things in our economic affairs. In fact, the capital powers have far too strong in our society, and they could be discussed in a long matter, but because of their speech. The senator of the influx seas, of course, to us, must tell us that they are not just there because of the misery of someone involved. It's not like that. When people contemplate the consequences of quickly relaxing them, they see that there would be a source of strength in the petals and a decrease in interest. Of course, many would welcome a decrease in interest. The influx seas are designed to maintain the country's interest points, but they are also designed to contain the crown's gangs. Of course, her overpowering might lead to a very difficult problem for exports and competitive branches, that I don't talk about wands. [[The president calls.]] The big context needs to be considered, and this is what I know. A senator understands well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u25	Mr. President. I think I dare say that I agree with every word as it is. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson said earlier. Just so I'm clear about that, when I say that you can uncheck the Influx Head or set the commitment to 0, I don't mean that there will be no tool in the Secret Bank's chest. I think it's necessary that the Navy bank have this tool to clean up when necessary, including to prevent growth prevention, which unfortunately was part of what happened here and there. A senator knows even better than I do. We agree with that, but I think that we too agree that, in normal condition, the Sentennial Bank is not going to use the tool of the Influx Sea. It is some kind of emergency inhibitor, an inhibitor that the bat must have in the tool box. We'll take it up sometime in the next few weeks when the draft bill for the Federal Bank will be submitted, a new bill that has been announced by prime minister on the Federal Bank, that's exactly what we must go through as well as the rest of the money policy project because the money policy cannot be torn away from the legal accounting of the Federal Bank. I can't wait to have that conversation with you. A senator. And then we can always recall a good time in the administration of young independents under the leadership of former prime minister Geir H. Haardes, the present ambassador of Washington. We had happy times together, and the ideas of freedom were often discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u26	Mr. President. We're gonna get married here at the warmth of our memories. I can agree with that with what. A senator that is so called on in a solemn language, I think it is safe to say, must be in the bank's toolbox. Above all, I want to emphasize that there is a need to approach that subject with caution, with perspective, and with insight. I'm not saying that this case is a major victory now, some anti-exploitation of commercial freedoms in Iceland, and I hope to get an opportunity to trace a short talk afterwards. It's about other things, it's an apostasy when there's a policy in the elimination of these cases as well as about the amount of money that appears there can go to the courts, but I hear that we are. A senator does not view this aspect of the matter exactly the same way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u27	Mr. President. I can totally agree with that. A senator accepting this bill is no great victory in freedom, but it is one of the little steps that will lead us in the right direction. This is one of the steps in which we have been so alone, and I thought we were all agreed that it was necessary to take. That's what's gonna get us there. It's gonna matter, it's gonna make a healthier budget for all the economy, about the money policy and give, I'm gonna claim, oxygen into the Icelandic business, and we really need it. In that respect, I'm glad we're taking those steps here today. I hope members of the Central Party, even though they may be at odds with something in it, share in that joy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for his speech. I don't think there's any reason for us to review the points we disagree on in this matter. There is one point that I would like to ask. A senator, head of the majority economic and business committee opinions, about. It's all about whether he thinks it's necessary to link these two things together, the output available here for this 84 billion k. Shrine of national property, and then relaxing or removing influx seas, as shown in the reviews of the Federal Bank and the subsequent articles of the bill presented here. Counts 'em out. A senator said that there had been some problem with relaxing the influx seas or removing them as a life - saving operation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u29	Mr. President. If my memory doesn't betray me, I've had discussions in this conference hall critically, and I know at least that. That in articles I have criticized the Secret Bank for the application of the Influx Seas, the binding obligations, and believed that there were no economic evidence to support it. As a result, this, of course, is the correct conclusion. This bill is not accepted by itself, but it helps and works as a whole. What we're doing here, and I hope that why. Congress officials realized that it is also taking steps to dislodge the national market. We now actually have a double currency market when it comes to the Icelandic crown. We have the public market, where the dollar is registered, the purchase, the sale, and then we have a national market. If you think it's some kind of healthy condition that it's some foreign-regulated place that we have no perspective or influence on, I hope you'll reconsider. In this, we're taking a wise step, and I know why. þm. Bergþór Olason rejoices in that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the answer. I thought I knew it was an attitude of course. A senator with the Influx Captains. Whether I have heard him comment on it in a talk or read articles after him as he took note of the subject, I cannot recall but I can say that I agree with the senator as to the subject. But I don't think anyone has to wonder that our attitude in the Middle Ages is that another problem, i.e. the influx seas, could have been solved without compromising the other at 84 billion levels. These two cases didn't hang together. I don't think it would have been better to follow a market route that had gone so well, since the time it was 1,200 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now it's the last 7% that gets to go out without any coercion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u31	Mr. President. I understand why. A senator sobs that the owners of an off-country cannot be moved to put up with some high-priced person who thinks they should be as 2016 or men agreed on 2016, 190 k. There is just no reasonable argument that suggests that this is because the owners of these assets are not crazy. I'm gonna point my head. The senator says we're not talking about some evil hedge fund, we're talking about individuals, we're talking about a company, we're talking about a debt fund that even... has been here and followed us through thick and thin. We're talking about setting up a healthy environment, and it's something of value, and it is of enormous importance to the Icelandic economy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u32	Madam President. As we have seen, in the spring months of 2016, national owners were given legal advantages. The law was about to melt the so - called high - land arm, which was then about 319 billion years ago, so further emissions of capital capital capital capital capital capitals could be attacked for nearly eight years. The matter was finalized in the waste process that had lasted for years by collection of currency stores, analysis of the balance of the Icelandic economy, and contracts with the demanding banks. We know the methodology, and it's been discussed here. In simple terms, it was about the offer of two options to the owners of an African country. Another was that the owners would agree to sell their capitals to a particular gang of 190 bucks. For each euro, however, it was suggested that national creditors who refused to participate in the deportation campaign would have a second chance to get out of Icelandic economy but in worse terms. You're right to keep it up. Then the instructions were that if they had not taken away their possessions, it would be unclear when they had access to their possessions, and the charge of Már Guðmundsson said to the Morning newspaper at that time that they would land at the end of the row. What Has Changed? Yes, we see and know it, and it turns out in this bill that now they're going out on better terms when we always talked about worse terms, and it even came. from the bank manager. What I find interesting about this case and this bill, Mr. President, is that seven senators from the left of green are sitting by the bill's hand on the deliberation of the spring months 2016 when the votes were much better with regard to the Icelandic economy and state funds than they intend to support this bill here and now, in terms of greater interest to the Icelandic economy and state funds. That certainly attracts attention. The most interesting thing about this bill is the natural course behind it, and history is, in a considerable way, in a long paper with the bill. In October 2008, as we know, many of these African owners acquired their claims for very low prices by buying them through an auction on the financial insurance insurance markets of major Icelandic banks, and those who had sold their insurance paid to those who had bought them. In the insurance agreements, the underlying property of auctions went to a specific requirement. The buyers were many of the so - called hedge funds or vulture funds that specialize in buying the bankrupt companies and applying for countries in difficult situations, as Iceland was at the time. The government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon decided that these people would have to pay a so - called stable stress in order to sell their money for foreign currency. The same was true of broken banks that gave the State much property. This can be read in a paper with the bill, but as we have seen, some funds that did not accept the government's offer were then paid for a great price and responded to the worst. Many are memorable advertisements they published for the election in the fall of 2016, and I've been talking about here. It is known when these disagreed demandsmen, known as Iceland Watch, published a full page advertisement in the Morning Press, attacked the Icelandic government and tried to influence the completion of election elections on the day before elections. This matter is unique. This was done openly and should, of course, have been examined at the time. Buchheit Buuchy, then government adviser, said that the campaign of the hedge fund was known but to get involved in the election of a sovereign state was unique. This was also recognized by an Icelandic spokesman for the funds in an interview with the French Times. Of course, the purpose was to try to make sure that a new government would handle these funds differently and show greater reasonableness in their view. At the beginning of 2017, things began to improve, as shown in the report, and now the remaining funds are offered to go out to market prices with the rest, even though the amount of money has fallen. It is clear, therefore, that after the new government began, at first the head of the Independence Party and then under the seat of the left green, the funds have been rewarded for going to battle with Iceland and not taking the original offer. Let us not forget that the funds had sought their rights in and out of the country, but they lost their business, and Iceland had every right to use this spell to make it clear, and to keep it safe. So it can be said that the top-of-the-line scale of 2017 is improved, and now with this bill, it is actually a gift for these funds, which was the worst reaction to us. However, there is no legal obligation to do this, and it must be said, as it is, that it is surprising how much subjugation prevails in this fund that treated us badly, now that left greens are in the seat of government. It also calls attention, Mr. President, to the indifference of other political parties on this important matter. I'm referring to the United States as an example, and it has not been involved in this case, nor has it expressed itself here from a public assembly outside one of the viceal council members, Einar Kárason, and it seems that either the class does not understand the importance of this matter for the Icelandic economy, for the state's funds, or is simply uninterested in it. In addition, it is surprising that the Agency's attitude in this matter is not to see how much interests are involved here. In this regard, none of the senators of the Annexe Party have addressed the matter. Madam President. This bill serves as a prize to those who refused to cooperate with the Icelandic government. It's all sad, and it's very sad that the government of Independence Class, forward class and left greens should not maintain this clear message to the hedge funds that have not been hanging on to Icelandic governments as we know and I've mentioned here, even trying to influence elections that showed how far they were willing to go. It's about government saying one thing and doing another. The scale of the hedge fund has been successful, and this bill is the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u33	Madam President. I'm inclined to comment on some of the fundamental reasons that have been behind the discussion that has been held in this matter for a long time. Basically, the view is that there are several simple questions that will be considered to be only normal in such a matter. It has been noted several times that after the economic and financial breakdown we had before the fall of 2008, it was a great challenge to get out of an abnormal state that had developed here. This has been referred to a wealth of literature in Iceland's Government and Iceland's Secret Bank since 2015 that markets for three major aspects of the problem. One of these factors was these properties that had been collected and settled as a result of the currency capitals, which were one of the restrictions taken up in our cooperation with the World Bank. It is damp and lies as a red thread through this publication that the way to work on this particular problem, which was driven, would be through a currency supply and through the owners of these assets that wanted to divide them into foreign coins and move them from abroad in a way that allowed them to buy a currency in the currency supply in a more precise way. All of this was extremely careful and laid to this very solid foundation, including born scholar, professor of Oxford University, previously consulted by the Bank of England and the U.S. Navy. It was then assumed that Iceland's ship was cared for. This suggests that there are many sources of auctions. An auction is a way to produce prices in a certain way, and what was there was to set these auctions in a way that seemed most suitable for these circumstances, and therefore this expert counsel was granted. In principle, the 1,200 billion mentioned have been cut down to 84 billion, and the issue is about them, as it is listed in a special table in the report on this topic. The first question on the subject is simply: Why, when these 84 billion are finished, is removed from a marketway of 2015 that was so carefully and reliable at that time? It is a natural ambition to bring the scholars on a global scale to justice, as the blessed psalmist says. That's the first question. I must admit, Madam President, that the answer has not been made to this question. This question remains. The next question, as well as a reasonable question, is: Why is it not clear in a report or in a lawsuit why it is decided not only to abandon this auction route but also to keep the matter clear that the individuals involved are not taking any cost to enjoy the privilege of getting their possessions out of the country as they have done as free of 1,100, or whatever they are now, billions already gone? It is explained in the current policy of Iceland's government and Iceland's Secret Bank from 2015 that such individuals are mentioned by the old and good country-looking conformity, which is well-deserved, but the goal was that men would not benefit from putting themselves in that position. What is now evident is the government's requirement and the majority of the opposition, apparently, is not clear. It's not even worth the effort, and it's understandable, counting the amount of money that this surrender could study, but of course, people can see it in their hands, based on a gang that's been used in these auctions, that there's a lot of money involved. I allow myself to say, Madam President, that it is not only the government that owes explanations, it must likewise be expected of other categories, of those in the government position who actually support this case, and especially to those who claim to have the interests of the poor, that they will explain why they believe that the state's funds are an opportunity for such sums in behalf of the parties involved. There are other questions that arise in this matter and that have not been answered, at least not in the council hall, including to assess the impact of key elements in our economy, such as the crews of the Crown, with the consequences of their price, with the result of this index that is the Holy Grail of the Icelandic financial system. There is nothing about it, not a margin, not a scaffolding, not a thing created, and the paperwork is not being spent on the impact of national currency and other factors. I remind you that prices and gangs are fundamental to the most important documents, plans and plans that decisions are made here, i.e. In the financials. In this regard, we have a financial program that is established on such grounds and absolutely necessary to discuss, in the case of such a massive operation, the consequences of these actions could be the basis for key financial leaders. I'm not going to spend any time, Madam President, discussing what might be called false or empty arguments that have been presented in this matter. But I'm going to let myself say that I think that a man should be careful and slowly walk the door of joy when it comes to using words like property, property, and such. These are serious things. These are issues that are well - founded in the studies of law science and that do not have much credibility when men who may not have been able to acquire a special word for the superior knowledge of that science and all studies use them this way and expect others to take a stand against such challenges, since, of course, these are nothing but blundering. Finally, Madam President, I'd like to mention a number of situations here, that this case cannot be sent out that Icelandic governments are so that if humans are just aggressive and aggressive enough, they can be turned aside from a policy of the most important affairs of the nation. It is hardly surprising to remember that the people of the United States did not allow themselves to become superior to foreign people. The Icelandic people made a twofold decision on national terms to be such arduous and aggressiveness and bullying and bullying. I'm going to let myself, Madam President, draw attention to myself. Councilmen in a department interview with the former president of the EFTA Court in the Morning Press today. They're talking to Dr. Baudenbacher, which includes... is about the Icesave treaties that he has investigated and that came to the attention of the EFTA Court; he describes it as the only major case that ever came before this court. What does Dr. Baudenbacher say in an interview with the Morning Press today? He says the Icesave treaties have been very one-sided and written in the matter of Versailles. These are Dr. Baudenbacher's words in the Morning Press today. I'm going to let me tell you, Madam President, that those who, with all the most intense motivation, encouraged this deal, which Dr. Baudenbacher, president of the EFTA Court, described as one side, even a very side, and written in the Versala case, agree to a fully defeated nation after five or six years of World War I - he describes the agreements we were offered in this way. I think people should consider the matter only in that light, and I reiterate my encouragement to do so. Councilmen to study this over-reaching interview and to consider the practical lessons they can learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u34	Madam President. I'm going to let it happen to me to say a few words here. I would like to state that I will not discuss this bill specifically and not meddle in debate over its advantages, indulge in those who are now more active in the field than I am. I feel that there is something missing in the depth of historical approach in this case, now that we are about to get to the finals of a special budget decommissionment, and the situation may be completely normal, leaving the world the most locked deportations that have lived on anything other than the market record, etc. The chronology did not start in these areas in 2015 or 2016; it did not even start 2008 with the collapse of banks. There is an even longer background in Iceland. ten years in these substances. It has mainly a source in Iceland's opening of its capital market and became part of the European Economic Area and adhered to it. Banks were privateised and spread, and interest in Iceland was high. The country's credit ratings were good. Thus, it began to tempt investors to do the interest rates between Iceland and other countries, and here a significant growth exchange began, with the permission of a president, as some call it. The first funds began to penetrate the economy in 2004-2005 on these topics. As in so many other areas, people in Iceland were deeply depressed for the danger that they could be building up to foreign owners who were final owners, e.g. probenecidies, that their domestic property would sooner or later want them out of the country again and their yield. This is where currency balance and currency risk for the Icelandic economy begins. In the autumn of 2004, this was about 40 billion times. and I got a representative from the Bank of Banks' Pension to a group of members of the left movement to discuss this with them whether it was of little concern. How was that crisis in Little Asia? Was it not wrong with humans, this phenomenon, this greedy short - term amount of money that comes into countries and wants to do business like this? - No, no, they didn't think it was a reason, the wise men, to worry about it, it would be a little, etc. And that's what happened. At the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009, an effort was made to determine the size of the snow hanger. It was originally more than 700 billion taps, more than 40% of the gross domestic product on the current price and snowline, the fliers that were much of it, consisted of the collapse of banks, and after the capital capitals were placed on, mainly by two groups, i.e. that part of the problem: There were domestic property, farm property, foreign property, inside the Icelandic economy, snow bandwagon, and there were Icelandic kronos, Icelandic holdings owned by foreign citizens or mortgages from foreign sources. This combined amounted to an hundred billion dollars. This problem was fairly clear right there, but the rest, i.e. The currency balance in the structure of the nests was very little known at the time. I often asked it as the secretary of finance there. The answer was: We do not know, but they hoped that there was a relatively small amount of currency in the payment of the old ones. Something else would become evident. They immediately turned to this problem, and in that sense too, Madam President, the calendar did not begin on 2015 or 2016. It started right away in 2009. They immediately began dealing with this matter, putting down the first plans for how this would be done, certainly within the framework of the capital handlers. It was clear to everyone that the problem would somehow be to work down because the prospect of the future was terrible that such an equalizing currency would be decades'worth in Iceland. What would it have meant if men had not resolved to overcome this problem in a relatively short time and were to get out of it? The alternative was to live for decades with the pressures of the Icelandic crown due to a long - range lack of time to work on the market because of the economic currency of the country's income, the payment paid, of payment, of course, offering the natural solution to the market only during decades of high cost for the interests of the United States, the public, and the businesses. Of course, people turned to building plans for how to get us out of this and to get into a normal situation at a reasonable time, plus that we were signed and signed to do so. And in cooperation with the World Bank Fund, we promised that, of course, we would try to wind down from the capital heads and get into normal conditions as soon as possible. The first major plan and an agreed-to-remission plan was adopted in March 2011. She wasn't for 2015, as some people think. Before her there were plans that were less stable, which included worked together with the International Cash Fund. As early as 2010, natural heads and shoulders are greatly won over the largest business in 2010 until the resolution of the swellings, which were a factor in the solution of this case, called Agens Business. What went on? They went on to buy back to Iceland a huge amount of money and property collections that had landed in the hands of foreign citizens because they were staked for trade in cashier banks on the losses prior to collapse. There were loans to Icelandic fishing companies, houses, bonds of government and domestic property. This big business took place in the middle of 2010, the Avens deal. Then the Icelandic government buys the Icelandic Pension Fund for a world of capitals from Europe up to 120 billion dollars. And because people here are saying something about what's fair in such a showdown, even today, I ask: What do you think we've got for the euro in this business, the state and the pensions? 288 k. Is that what people might want to use today? [[Up front.]] - Right, I'd love to be able to go all the way out there. That'll make a lot of money. More two - side business was in 2010, so 150 billion were released from the snow hang by such measures, just in that year. Since then, according to the 2011 financial decommissionation programme, as well as the auction, has been standing continuously between 2011 and 2015. And through them, the snowpant is taken down by less than 140 billion and through provisions provided on the investment route was added to the other 25, so that by then more than half of the original snow hanger has already been reached. It's down about 335 billion dollars. and then there's 319 left. When the bill was submitted to the measures we are now changing, the results are 319 billion, as shown earlier in the discussion. I'm just tracking this down, Madam President, to put things in their proper historical context. It is always possible to look at the matter as it has worked out in its entirety. The starting point is there - of course, in the privatization of banks and such, in fact, the starting point is the induction of the growth process in Iceland in 2004◯2005. Then there is the other part of the problem. Who is he? It is the product of fallen financial companies because there are Icelandic assets in property stores. In the end, they knew nothing of their greatness. Why is this problem? Isn't that an Icelandic swelling farm made up in Iceland? Yes, but the final owners of property, valuables from the farm, are the demands. They're on foreign ground. So it also became part of the problem, in fact, part of the snow hang, and because the economic restoration of Iceland was successful, and because these Icelandic assets were generally more valuable than expected, this problem was growing. It increased continuously from the moment men first began to realize that there was over the head of some currency tied in the farms. It is not until 2010 and 2011. In fact, it is not until the mid - 2012 period when the Scrollman has arrived with a good analysis of the size of this section of the problem. Already everyone realizes that this too will never be released from the economy unless there are substantial prices to the Icelandic property. Nor is it invented, Mrs. President, from 2015 or 2016. In all this process, it has always been the focus of the elimination of the domestic property, which was locked behind the capital or were inside the farms, only to be released from the economy unless it was wonderfully written down. That's all we could do. The alternative was that they would be here for decades and that we spent decades in capital capitalists. It was just like this, it was clear to everyone, as was the case with the Avens deal. What does it tell us that we got 288 k? For what euro? Of course, it was just a wonderful formula for those values in effect. Their foreign owner could hardly get half of the money when they were bought home in Iceland. The non-employment funds, etc. When this image is properly lit by 2012, the bank manager says: "These assets will not be released from the economy unless they become worthy of at least 70%. That was always clear. The subject was just how. Then I come to something else that must be allowed to float along, Madam President, which was the absolute key in all of this so that we could finish up and get rid of them. There is a change in the law here in March 2012, when old living possessions are taken and put in for the capital. They had not been there. Now the situation has come to an end, the handling of matters and judicial cases, and the like, that it is being reduced to payment. And that was not the time, for the bill was submitted and shown here after the completion of markets and made laws just at midnight. If we were not there at night, we would have placed our assets in place, we would not have had a position to negotiate with them. It was not just these much domestic property that had flocked up in the nests, it was all the property of the farms, including foreign people, because it was Icelandic jurisdiction. This made the agreement strong, for we were able to do no payment for the foreign demands unless it was compatible with economic stability, domestic or foreign property, would be paid out unless it was part of a whole plan, unless it was granted an exception. And speaking of heroes resisting the pressures of foreign demands, I remember the situation at the Assembly Hall and around the House that night and that night. Some of them escaped because they were well connected, but we did not, and we did. The only compromise was made that free property at the time in foreign currency was allowed to go according to the special management of the Federal Bank, while all other property that was immensely known were locked up. As a result, the contract is formed, which then lays the basis for us to put them on either a stable tax or a stable tax. The groundwork is laid with this legislation, and I can't think if we hadn't done it there. Actually, it was the last thing to do. If there was anything to be criticized that would be directed on me or on the Secret Bank, it would be that we were not to go to this operation sooner. But this did not in itself prove to be a special challenge, and it proved to be early enough to create the situation that came to our advantage. The overall conclusion is, Madam President, that everyone can do well with their own pleasure in this matter, according to my opinion. And all the classes and governments that have been involved in Iceland since the 2008 emergency law was set up today have their own good share in setting up Iceland to the excellent place it belongs to. Of course, circumstances are so different that half of them would be enough. We have a fine economy since 2011, and we own 500 to600 billion inaccessible currency reserves. The little that is left to clear out this issue and to get into a normal state is thus small, compared with all the rest of mankind's problems when the problem was more than half that it was enough. So I agree with that with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, that, of course, each man should be smiling at. It's amazing that Iceland is in a position where we can clean these remains off and keep them happy for the day. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u35	Madam President. I'd already like to see the end of this discussion about the subject that is here for me to discuss slightly the viewpoints I have at least discussed during the discussion. It was shown by the highest. The President of the Generals in the preceding talk that the circumstances were different today, but when these measures were taken and these were to be considered in relation to the overall picture. Certainly, the percentage of 1,200 billion people attacked and presented what road trip would be on June 8, 2015, if I recall the date correctly. It's only 7% of that amount, but I've been critical in my discussion that the only thing that has been proposed is to cause us harm in later stages, not because of this case, but because of some complicated and twisted issues later in which men have to stand in and defend domestic interests and then it's not a good thing to have moved out that once the majority of the programme has gone out, it's okay to call it good, men have become satisfied, the situation changed, and is a reason not to finish the last part of the plan. It's a bad message. It is a approach that, of course, will be remembered, and it will cause us not to become as strong a stand for the counterpriests when it comes to later fighting for government interests. Despite the fact that these are little ones, the figure is that this 84 billion - billion - statin was still on the basis of the number considered acceptable when the program is started would be 23 billion compared to today's gang today. Today's gang is almost exactly the same at the euro, the bank team, and that was when the programme was started. It seems to me there to remember about 1 percent. I think for all reason, it would have been wise to finish the plan as planned. Since the EFTA Court reached its decision at the end of 2016, there has not been any of the grand changes in the economic environment since the end of 2016 that require that our righteous standing on the case be changed completely. I think it's just food that doesn't feel right. In many ways, our economic situation with predictable growth, development in the tourism industry, and more has been positive at the end of 2016, while it can be reasoned that the uncertainty of the environment now exists. This is what I wanted to say about the message and the underlying numbers in this. This is the final key that can be said to have been decided by the prospective approval of this bill not to take it, and I'm sorry. It has been very interesting to observe the discussion based on the complete silence of all parts of this bill's supporters. What has caused me especially strange, since many of those who have kept their mouth shut, so to speak, have held inspired talks that they give from the financial resources of the state, are being given to the other and these groups billions here and billions there. These talks are mainly presented in connection with work with the government's financial or financial plans. It is screaming loud and often that builders are donated to billions, high - incomeers, and billions and so on. We all know such talks. Now, on the basis of the creditors who still own these amounts, it is clear that this was the plan and all that surprised them right now is, of course, that they have won a complete victory over this final part of the story. None of the top members of the council claim that billions of dollars are being published and south for financial purposes each time have made a few remarks about handing over the potential revenues that were framed in - let's call it the right word - a forced action to be performed in the middle of 2015. Nobody. The talks have been one speech from the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, three talks from the committee's chairman, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, and one speech from the highest. General President, Stingrim J. Sigfússon. I don't think I'm forgetting any member of the council or a government officer who seems to be supporting the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u36	That could be three answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u37	Yeah, there's a bit different, but not money in the picture. I'm willing to take it upon myself that I forgot to specify one of three answers or so. Of course, this caught attention, and it would have been a great improvement for the discussion, even though only those who had become familiar with the case had participated in it here. The point is so growing that it is a political decision, it is not a decision to follow this route that is taken up in the Secret Bank or something like that. It's a political decision, and that's why it's the right of those senators who have doubts about the matter, well, it's not true, they have the right not to comment, but I would have thought it wise for them to express themselves more in the early stages of it. It would simply have improved the discussion. It would have made it easier for us to put our views in proper perspectives, which I think may have been pampered into our speech. paritaprevir At the beginning of the debate today, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, president of the Central Party, recommended his special party, the committee. There's nothing that I've learned about it, at the committee meeting yesterday or at the conference today, reducing some of the things we've been most concerned about. On these things, we would have liked to have a conversation with the supporters of this bill in the conference hall. There's one thing I'd like to mention at the end that I've thought strangely to see. The bill contains a section 6.4, which deals with the impact on the state funds of the case. On several occasions, I have criticized the development of financial or financial ministers when it comes to assessing the cost of action on the pay gate or on the pay gate for activities discussed in the construction of budgets. Now, the political decision is to be made that one group will be there, the largely mischievous group of landowners in working with the government, without paying for any fee. According to section 6.4, this has no effect on government funds. I'd like to say this here to keep it up, because it is, of course, in the future, I feel that there's a line that needs to be a line in how this sort of thing is written and hardheaded, because it really matters for us senators when it comes to evaluating advanced data as here is. Just one last thing. It has been said in our discussion that our legal standing was weak, that circumstances had all changed so much since the mid - 2015, that if we had been maintained, we would see to it that we would lose it all in court. In this regard, there is no evidence that this has been the case. The results of the EFTA Court were quite clear at the end of 2016, there has been no great change since then in these issues and we have, as we have said here in this discussion, to have the courage and courage to stand up for the interests of government and country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u38	Madam President. In 2015, they presented ways to cope with the so - called, 1,200 billion - dollar snow - hanging. that were likely to flow out of the country if nothing had to be done when severed. The measures that were then presented included the ultimate solution to the need for each of these 1,200 billion owners to make a possible contribution. This is a proposal and it seems to me to agree that all the people who owned this 1,200 billion pay a contribution to freeing the money except those who are the owners of the last 84 billion. Everyone pays except those who were least willing to participate in recovery and restoration of the Icelandic economy. This sets a very dangerous example and shows that governments can be reassigned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u39	Madam President. In the meantime, the government's fixed emissions programme was set out to include the depositors who were placed here with their possessions, an invitation was made to release them by the payment of a donation, i.e. that they would be involved in the restoration of the Icelandic economy. Of course, if these people had seen the slightest trace in Icelandic governments, they would not have jumped on the wagon as many of them did in the hope that they would then be rewarded. It is totally predictable that if these parties had been implied that they could be released from the head by waiting all things would have failed. But what is happening now? The most obvious reason for all is that the Union, the Development, the Piranus, and their accessories have no opinion in this matter, and they expect to follow the three parties that are involved in this surrender, these groups that often come up in a pita and call for increased funding in all kinds of needed items, but then do not have the ball size, will or persistence to ask when governments blow horns to organize capital owners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u40	Madam President. I can't sit here and say what to say. A senator on this matter. The fact is, the middle party has spent some 20 hours here or about all this nonsense, empty nonsense about it. This was made clear at a meeting of the Directorates of Economic and Business Committee last night, where the matter was carefully reviewed. Perhaps it would have saved the council a great deal of time if the head of the Central Party had been sitting at the World Bank for the first meeting. The fact is, the fable of history that the central Party is trying to provide no real support, to speak of other classes being on the decline, or to surrender. It is simply a normal continuation of brokenness, an important and successful release, and I support the normal continuation of my mind. [[The president calls.]] This is a wise and necessary step. We'd like to finally be lifted, but I don't like to sit here under this shit that the Central Party has offered us for the last two days or so. [[The president calls.]] There is not a grain of truth in the fabrication of history there. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u41	Madam President. As with the previous speaker of the Central Party, the cohesion cannot support the case, since experts have reasoned on economic and business committee meetings that it does not pass an opinion. The way that the Middle-class people offer is completely impossible. All governments have participated in a budget release program that began formally in 2011 with a program of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. The bill that made it possible was a bill adopted in March 2012, which some have called less of the crisis laws. Then, the government of the Independence Party and the Propulsion continued the case, and eventually the government of the Archivist Class, the Independence Party, and the Bright Future. Now this government is taking this step just in the end. We haven't fully raised our heads yet, but here we are taking steps in a very different situation than when we started - luckily.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u42	Madam President. The normal day today should be a special day for reason. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. We are taking one of the final steps to break free, to make Iceland's economy healthy, similar to that in the countries we compare with ourselves. It is always possible to find some nudity in everything, and instead of rejoicing, instead of seeing the possibilities and opportunities we are making, humans are trapped in the past. The past does not help the common people, that is, the future that matters, and we are making a decision as to how we will build up the future and not on some ancient dream. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u43	Madam President. It is wrong that the officials so many senators blindly follow them have shown that something was wrong in the Central Party case on this matter. It is also wrong. paritaprevir Víglundsson says something about the Middle Party's lawsuit was wrong, and he was confident. A senator does not see to it that one talk is given to show just one example of this. On the other hand, he answered, and more than once, to argue that the middle class was taking on a form of possession, a form of property. This was a familiar choice of words, for it was very common for us to hear when the plans were prepared and presented 2015 as a means of education. But from who? From the one who wanted to do so by all means prevents them from accomplishing. We can just imagine whether the people who represent this case now and who believe that it is a privilege to pursue a previous plan would have put such plans into practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u44	Madam President. Since collapse, all groups of members who have served at the General in their own way have tried to work out the solutions of the many problems that resulted from the collapse and success. We have an extremely fine economy today because the rescue operation was mostly good. Of course, there are challenges, and of course not all agree completely with us, but the fact is that this step is one of the final steps in the direction that we complete this crash. Of course, there are still many problems left in society, etc. and we'll finish them too. However, the fact that one class has been trying for three days to take possession of all the results is rather embarrassing. We must be able to thank all classes, all the people who were involved in the rescue after a crash, well for what was well done, and can also complete this case so that we can continue and solve other and bigger problems into the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u45	Madam President. We're taking an important step as a community for release. We're not finishing this thing, but we're taking this step in a completely different setting than the steps that have been taken so far. It is a cause for rejoicing, and most of us may hope that the Icelandic society and the Icelandic economy will continue to be able to live under acceptable conditions for the entire nation. This step is one step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u46	Madam President. I'm going to vote for this bill, and I'm going to make it out of good conviction that it's the right thing to do. I am happy, and I am happy to be here and share in this day's taking one of the last steps that, in a very figurative way, will get us away from the collapse, the difficult times, and the difficult things involved. It's really amazing to be here only ten years later or so and to see how much Iceland's place has improved in every way. There is also evidence to indicate that this is true. That we now take this step without really having to worry about it. It wasn't that way when we didn't have the currency for oil and drugs in November 2008. On this occasion, I'd like to thank those who have contributed a great deal in this regard, the Bank of Iceland, which is not always commended, but he has a very good share here, staff of the Ministry of finance, and Iceland's advisers throughout this time. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u47	Madam President. It is a shame to see what is going on in this vote. Now, let's prove it again, and have done it all in the past that there are actually only two classes at the General, the Central Party, and the Social Security. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] I'm expecting to continue to see this new political cohesion that is, in fact, led by government officials and their assessment of what is best to do at one time. This is the simplest way for a large group to unite in a course simply by following what the officials say. The politics of Iceland, however, require more. This is a good example of this. The success that has so far not been achieved without a political policy and to which the middle category will remain until now and in this vote, and therefore I will say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u48	Madam President. What a joy it is to be allowed to vote with this bill and say yes. This is not a matter of government officials or their pressure but of simple common sense. A simple common sense has gathered here in a chamber, unless it appears to be one of the other groups. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Take place in the other category.]] [[Get in front of the same crowd.]] It's just that kind of thing. Yet, here we are an organization that provides a healthy environment for the future rather than an improvement in the past. That's why we say yes, not because we're applying what government officials say - you can claim it, meinegers, my associates - but it's the common sense that tells us we have and that we have an obligation to say yes to the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u49	Madam President. I would like to recommend a synonym as to the state of the rural states in the South. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to commit the government to appoint a representative of rural communities on the Southnes and five head office experts, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Proconservation, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Health to implement a time-to-day strategy for promoting government services to citizens of Southnes and meeting major population growth there. The population submitted a report of results no later than June 1, 2019. Prime Minister introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. This proposal was presented at the 148th legislature, but it did not succeed. She is now reimbursed by members of the South American Parliament. It is long time for the South's affairs to be handled in an organized way and for a plan to strengthen the population of some 26,000 and for the past more than a decade, it has been difficult to overcome. In 2006, after 55 years of age, the defense team was eliminated from the Cheflavor airport, causing a fluctuation in commercial life on the Southnes when some 600 jobs were laid down. Despite the financial collapse, unemployment grew dramatically, leading to the collapse and subsequent failures, which may be said to cause another shock to the region. Now, however, the number of Southnes population has increased dramatically over the past few years or some 5,000 people in six years, most since 2015. Madam President. I'd like to state that this number was 5,000 in the fall, i.e. in September when this synoptic proposal was made and distributed in the General Assembly. This group has since been added to this group, so this is not a complete accurate number, but it shows that the increase has been significant. Such population growth is bound to have many challenges for the local community and a large number of new populations of foreign land, speaking no Icelandic, and needing more service and assistance from various social infrastructures. Health services and other social infrastructures were weak as the population grew up. At the same time, an increase in the number of inhabitants in the area that is mainly explained by an increasing stream of tourism into the country and a growing number of workers in international flights has been observed with lack of housing. A number of inhabitants of Ásbek, where U.S. soldiers lived while the military was in this country doubled in the last six years. The U.S. Army abandoned the local military station that affected the city's area in Smokeytown, although with a law passed in 2006, the local community was obliged to issue property bills. That discount was at the end of 2016 more than a billion dollars. At the same time, the government has sold billions of dollars from the military. The report in which the Advisor firm Aton worked for Réjanestown on funds for the Southnes'institutions provides more comprehensive information on the rapid decline of the budget for the population in Southnes. The movers of this proposal find it unacceptable that, at the same time as there is a need to attack road and public transportation and expand education, for innovation, and for the development of social infrastructures because of the above conflicts in terms of population growth, and for increasing percentages of foreign populations, the standard is that government contributions per citizen of health and law enforcement, for example, are drawn together. Transporters are aware that the South's rural communities want to welcome all citizens, national and foreign, and render them first-class service. However, this will not be done without the Kingdom's joining him. Bear in mind that population growth is primarily due to sectores that benefit the entire nation. This synonym is suggested to appoint a group of representatives of state and rural society, as stated earlier, which constitutes the status of the five rural communities in the South, in view of the above. Madam President. Now I have to correct the report I am reading here with the proposal because since the proposal was given at the General Assembly in September, the two rural communities are no longer five but four because of the unity of Gardur and Sandgeris. The social effects of population growth will be examined and specifically assessed whether the regional financial or social contributions have been accompanied by the development of events on the Southnes. Under this suggestion write, as well as the one that stands here, OK? Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Smári Mccarthy, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Magnússon and Birgir Þórarinsson. When national and social groups visited a budgetary committee for the financial bill, representatives from the Southern Union came to review this situation. Of course, many have been called on by the government's attention to the state's status in the South Sea, first when the military left and then when unemployment was too long over 15%. Southnes were able to get out of that difficult position without much control from the State, and then education, health, law enforcement, etc. as we know. In the face of population growth, these infrastructures are affected. The Kingdom has failed, or has responded, or has been as flexible as any of its societies to cope with this change. The rapid growth of population in the South has increased the pressures of local institutions, and donations have not increased in accordance with them, as the Southnes have pointed out and discussed with a budgetary committee in the fall. The continuing population growth year after year means a higher degree of error. It is not taken into account that significant changes such as the origin of the population, the composition of the local population, are important, however, when considering the development of social infrastructure. Similarly, changing the population beyond the national average is not being taken into account, but it must be important to recognize that the government's strategy does not focus on rapid urban development in the South. What we are calling here is that the Commission, which is important for working together on this particular position, will provide a comprehensive strategy. We know that the proportion of population growth has been the largest in the South if we look over the country from 2010 onward and far beyond the 1% increase in the year in which the state aims. It's quite inflexible that the state shows that when plans are put up for a national part of the country, the average is over the whole country. However, in areas of growth, such as Southnes, the increase is much higher than the average. This isn't working. Southnes who need health care, such as other citizens who need police services and other educational tools, for example, cannot find pleasure in this. Between 2010 and 2018, the number of foreign citizens increased by 3,780 on Southnes, which is similar to the population in Iceland. The increase in foreign citizens who need other services - e.g. is an interpreter at the Southnesian Health Institute much higher than in the National Institutes of Health, for example, for example how composition should be considered as much as the number of people in the country. Since then, there has been an enormous increase in natural traffic by Rhines, about 80% in the last five years. This calls for maintenance and the complete completion of the double to the terminal. In addition, public transportation in the area is out of control. Why would that be? This is because the state is having an argument with the local community on how it should be done and that it was laying down an air station to Reykjavík, which was taken out of the system. It was the only one carrying it. You may bear the losses to the South's rural communities. True, there was a lawsuit in this regard, where local communities were in a very strong position after the lawsuit, but there is a debate over how to pay for the damage. Everything is up and there's no agreement on public transportation between state and rural society on the Southnes. There is another matter that we need to take. President. That proposal was given extensive coverage at the last assembly when she was alone with the United States. The reviews were positive, the moody spokesman. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was actually willing to handle the matter from the committee when it was not possible to finish the case for some reason that I am completely concealed. I don't understand how the proposal crossed the environment and transport committee. I wish for the matter to go back in there, and now it has the support of most classes and all the private members of the Parliament so that both the members of the body are at ease. Officials and members of the council support the situation. The situation on the Southnes is clear day by day, and she must be treated. If we do not look at where the growth is so great, where the pressures on the government's institutions in the area are so intense that the staff are hardly under the pressure and the inhabitants are not given the service they need, if we do not look there. Senators, we're not doing our job. What, then, are we standing for? Here's a matter that everyone can join in, and now there's a financial program coming into the council. Of course, I hope that a minister has already realized the situation and will look to the Southnes, although that was not in the autumn when the funds were taken care of. It has been several weeks since, so hopefully the government has realized it at that time. If it is not necessary to take steps to produce the budget that will be submitted in the fall. Madam President. I would like this council-sense proposal to join the Environment and Transport Committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u50	Madam President. I just want to roll up with a little bit. My sister's subject to this fine suggestion. In recent times and years, despite the vast majority of Southwesternnes, their rural communities have been under great pressure. I wondered, " Is there anything in the legal environment that we need to consider to strengthen or secure the status of our rural society that faces such situations? ' Although the infrastructure is solidly based on events in these communities, of course, something gives in to the urgency of the situation. It is an old story, and new that the government seems to be late to take over and react. It was noted that one thing is a growing population, but their composition is another, how this population is. In this case, we are dealing with a small amount of special circumstances, for things are people of a foreign background who need special support. In terms of the National Institute of Health, more people need more support and more and better health care. This needs to be treated. The government seems to turn this on very late. So I ask. My sister, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, whether to some extent we need to trust more fully the legal environment so that our rural communities are more efficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u51	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. But I'd like to say before I answer. A senator answering members is not something that I think we should take for granted. In particular, it is already bad, but it is not. Of course I'm happy to answer that question because this is a key question. It has been a hallmark of Icelandic society's rapid response to change, and we are flexible. There have been rural areas in Southnes and other areas of growth. We have a growing area around Acdín and around Selephos and, of course, in the capital area, although growth in these areas was not as extensive as in the Southnes. The Kingdom will not respond. The state is hovered, it has its excel documents with 1% increase while the increase is much higher in various areas. That's what we need to change. I'm aware that in a regional policy that has not been approved here at the council, there is a special robe in which the state will find out how to deal with specific circumstances, such as so much growth in certain areas of the country. It is something we need to do, but in itself it should be just common sense. We're sharing money and services with people, and then we should look at how the compositions have changed, whether people have decreased or increased, when we reexamined our plans. [[The president calls.]] This should not be a problem for the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u52	Madam President. Yes, it may be a little unusual for me to stand here and to have a word with my group sister, but the matter of course has to do with more territory than just Southnes, and it's important for rural communities in the South, Selephoss, and that area, Westland, Aclin. These communities have been put under great pressure by moving, and they have faced the subject and have done quite well. But anything can be overdone. Of course, with more residents, the country's income is growing with increasing response, isn't it? But what about the Slurpee Fund? How does he react? Does he take this into consideration? I would also like to reflect on some of the ideas that happened by then. paritaprevir In the News Áslaug today, Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir writes that it is ideal, and the rural communities are supposed to aim to lower their taxes to the citizens. How does it rhyme with these growing activities and increased rural demands to render good service and to serve more fully? The State has, in its efforts, been to place increased demands on the rural community, on the countryside level, with no stakeholdership guaranteed by local authorities in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u53	Madam President. Companies are expressed in response, real estate, and then it's an equation. Of course, there are variations in the balance fund, depending on a number of factors, including some of them. population. The rurals run elementary schools, they care for the disabled and the subjects of the children, and so on. and these are expensive mails. Farmers have complained that the income stocks do not depend on providing good service to the nearby community and these vulnerable groups, to which the law is intended. I can't see that there's a lot of opportunity for the rurals to lower their answer. I can't figure out how it could work. Regarding the Southnes especially, I'd like to say: Of course, more is involved when the population grows. There will be more to play in the country funds for the projects that society has to deal with. Smokeytown was almost broke down, and in 2014 it was clear that there were 42 billion in minus that had to be won, so there was a huge debt to be paid, and the inhabitants had to pay a higher answer and accept less service. When the state does not live up to its service, society, which is not good for anyone, becomes angry. And now that our rural communities are scrambling to a better position with the answer and with growing income institutions, the state has to meet them and trust the infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, Southnes and I have the right to perform the same service as the rest of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We cannot accept being placed lower than others in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u54	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to express my joy with an up-to-date synonym and support that the job they want to start. The fluctuations that the Southnes have lived for over a decade, from the elimination of the defense force from the Cheflavor airport, are without precedent - the downturn with reduced work, unemployment, and the effects of the economic collapse, and then the more recent fluxs of total population growth and demand for force. Such changes are a challenge, and it can be said that the South was a great success in the transition. They are to be commended for this. They have not necessarily been made lighter by the State in this century, as shown by the proposal of a paper: A quarter of the population on Ásbek, where U.S. soldiers stayed while the military was in this country, has doubled in the last six years. The U.S. Army left the local military station in Smokeynestown, although with laws passed in 2006, the local community was obliged to give the State credit. That discount was at the end of 2016 over a billion dollars. At the same time, the government has sold billions of dollars from the military. It's kind of amazing that this is like this, because, really, it's this service that the state is supposed to perform there. It is amazing that all this money disappears from society and will not be replaced as the need grows. This decrease, referred to as being very rapid in recent years - and supported by the review of the Advisor of Atinn, who won it for Smokey Town - shows that these are things that need to be done very thoroughly. It's, I understand, it's very sad for the people of the South to see this decrease in real estate costs and the income the state receives and at the same time there's a decrease compared to the population of the area. I also agree with what the report says: To this proposal, it is unacceptable that, at the same time as there is a need to attack road and public transport reforms and expand education, for innovation and social development because of the above conflicts in terms of population growth and increasing percentages of foreign populations, the situation is that every citizen's civility and law enforcement work, for example, is brought together. I'd like to reiterate what a carrier came in. You think that health care will be much more expensive when people grow like this, and I don't talk about a high percentage of foreign residents. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir entered the cost of an interpreter service directly to the institutions as a health insurance unit in Iceland, except for the number of tourists who pass through the Southnes and the number of employees who work in the Southnes but who may be living here in the Great Reygús. So they go to work. Many of them would probably like to take advantage of the quality of their health - care providers in the vicinity of their daily activities. But in return, the people of Southnesia, who work in the Great Rygúsvík, seek medical care here rather than wait to find out where they live. It is very important that the basic services of the state and community are in place and that they work as well as they should. The hospital service for a health care officer costs today 5,000 bucks. For the Agency, but the individual pays the return fee for a 1,200 - dollar medical facility. Then it is natural for the services he is attending, whether he is seeing a doctor, nurse, or psychologist or whoever he is. This is an additional cost, and as far as I know, it is not expected inside the calculus on which expenses for health care are based. Of course, rural communities want to welcome new residents and have to use their farms there. Earlier, only the Church Fund was introduced. This change was made in the Regulation of the Companion Fund, 14. ..................... that includes growing areas. During the past three years, annual population growth has been more than 2.5% in average - that is, in terms of the spending equivalents. In the past, people had been focused on reduced numbers, but they are reacting and paying more attention to areas in which there is so much growth. I feel that the debate on the decrease in the rate between yesterday and today in the media is due, and it's linked only to the collective agreements being covered, a bit sad, and especially if you look to areas where there is a lot of structure and where much infrastructure is needed. In these areas, rural society needs to use every dollar to nurture its population and use its basic services. Of course, all of us can look at our books and look at where we can do better, whether it is in reduction of school fees or so. But there is something else that we must also demand through the equation fund. The panther fund is supposed to be an equation device, and people are expected to make good use of resources before the equation is to kick in. This coin has many sides, and the whole thing needs to be looked into in context. But this body of Congress proposal has arrived a second time, and hopefully it will be paid for this council so that the work can be done quickly and carefully to examine the situation of these rural communities. As indicated by the suggestion, the State's services are not really being asked for anything more than to be financed in a natural way so that they can carry out the work that the State is to do in this area. I hope the proposal gets quick and quick treatment and positive results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u56	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank a messenger for this proposal. It is a pleasure to see that all the members of the district of the South, including the one listed here, are in it. It is good to see the spirit of solidarity in this regard. Unfortunately, there has been insufficient agreement among members of the council in this matter in particular, i.e. to pass the share of the Southnes on legal contributions from the state. The person listed here has provided suggestions for the budget and also a financial plan to pass the object that has sadly failed to follow. I'd like to thank you, though. paritaprevir Odddu G. Oddný Harðardóttir for her support of my suggestions, but for some reason the Councillas have refused to support these suggestions. I would have liked to see more members of the board present in this discussion. It's quite interesting, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Adolescent named Oddný G. Harðardóttir mentioned that when the proposal was moved, she was on the committee and was standing to take care of it there, but for some reason it did not. It raises questions as to whether a person is involved in some political climate, which is very sad. Indeed, there is a need for this well - beinged and clear suggestion, and it emphasizes that there will be a time-to-day strategy to further the service of the state of the South, especially as a result of the population growth that has taken place. This strategy involves strengthening the community in the area. The population growth, as suggested by the proposal, is incredibly high. We are talking about 5,000 people in six years, very high. It has to be said, as it is, that the success of South American communities under difficult circumstances is admirable and should be commended for this. This large number of services must be performed at the same time as legal donations for that service have not been in harmony with the population growth. It tells you that the state is way too suspended in response to such population growth in a short period of time. For example, Rhinestown has become more populated than Akureyri. The proposal points out when the U.S. Army leaves the country in 2006 with its problems for society. There was a huge number of employees working there. There were some 600 jobs, but there were actually more because there were many secondary services involved in the defense team. The proposal says that the state did not fully issue real estate fees to the city of Rhines, despite the fact that Smokejanestown had begun to serve in this area; which, unfortunately, tells her natural about the State's mental attitude toward this area, which has not been positive enough in this regard. At the same time, defense property was sold through a special corporation, and all the goods that were presented there were so complete in a government fund and not to the area of Southnes that would have been needed. That's what I'd like to say, too, to mention only other factors, i.e. Health Organization, law enforcement, and High School, these government institutions to provide legal donations so that they can be run. Huge population growth has led to the fact that the police have had to care for a great number of jobs involved in trustrs, refugees, etc. ... thatis connected to the terminal. That's when the police'work effort has not been enough for the local residents. Of course, it should have been made up of people who have the same service despite the increasing pressure on the police. The same is true of the South American Institute of Health, where there have been extreme pressures. For example, I was told that I could have him in three weeks. It's an incredible service, and it's not an offer. Today, so many are looking to the capital area for this service; it is not supposed to be that way. It should be a service in the vicinity of the environment for which the inhabitants are entitled. I say like what? paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir said earlier: "The Southnes are entitled to the same service as others do. It is very strange that the government has not yet realized this. I encourage the government and the government groups to act on these topics and perform the same service in the Southnes as in other settlements. At the end, Madam President, I'd like to mention a little more organizations that have been left out but may not be very busy. It's, for example. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It is of great interest to reexamine the development of government funds in this regard. The Court of Knowledge received 15 million in 2012. K. By 2018, it was 19 million. But if we compare it with other places of knowledge, such as. In the Western islands and in the United States, which are very similar to the site of knowledge, then in 2013 the Western Islands received 24.6 million and 29 million were given. This year. And the carburetor got 21 million this year. We can see that it is similar to a center of knowledge that receives considerably higher amounts than Southnes' Knowledge. This is yet another example of this failure to make financial contributions that must be corrected. So I like the health care department in neighboring settlements at the city of Rhinetown, for example. No service in the new continental society of the Southnes, which Sandede and Garth now hear after unity. Some 3,500 people live there. There are no such things as ◯selHow, and there are no days of elderly people there for example. A rural population of 3,500 in the country usually has health care and such services. Then, as it is called, it is a Smokeyjar or Geopark. It has been very difficult to straighten him out. The business came from the earth to the budget committee for the last autumn, which was certainly needed but did not follow. There are these two geologic problems, Katla Geopark and Smokejanes Geopark. Katla has a special contract with the state of state, and I think it's about that. Twenty million. K. contributes to the next four years at the same time and we don't see any such agreement with Smokejanes Gallak. Let us not forget that Smokejanes Geppak covers the territory of the southern rural communities. There's been a petition for a Marine, etc. and in fact, it has only been addressed. But the core is this: There is another institution, as it were, that does not have the same financial contributions as the equivalent of an institution. [[The president calls.]] Mrs. President, there is a great need to correct these contributions. Thank you. A senator for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u57	Madam President. I'm just going to get involved in this discussion or discuss in order to reveal a little more fully the support of all members of the council, with my interest in the representatives of all classes. We are facing a few more years of cumulative need. I don't know in itself how many years, but this isn't a new bubble that needs to be resolved. That's for damn sure. The state of the local community is different, I guess most people know that. I'm not gonna mention any particular societies. Some are better off than others; others are really short - lived - and I'm not talking about the largest of the Smokey Towns. It's been established how big he's become now. This rapid growth, which has little precedent, has provided the basis for various things that we rejoice about. I mention, for example, that unemployment is not the same as it once was - or most, hopefully all of them - is celebrating the population that flourishes in all these towns. It has also been quite successful working out a bad debt where appropriate. But then there's the problem, the other side of the caller. It's been through it here and there's no need to repeat the facts. These include housing, transportation, health care, education, and various community services. They have rightly criticized a slow response, whether it is this government or the government before, or what government it is, to correct it in order to correct it. There is a true record of the situation and this failure that has become obvious to all. Farmers have also worked pretty hard to offer ideas, suggestions, or wishes, but as we have clearly seen, it is too slow to work on. So we're all members of the council here on this excellent suggestion. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, and that in itself is more than joy. This shows that the members of the Southern District of all categories are united in this cleaning business. Of course, it is a modest proposal to appoint a group of workers who have certain tasks that hopefully lead to a solution to all of this. We all keep our hopes up - and I'm in trouble. Environmental and Transport Committee - for the quick and efficient implementation of this matter in the way the people of South Africa deserve it. I know that through those who have not spoken up or will not do so, members of other classes, all of whom are there as one man. I'm going to encourage the government to contribute to the situation. I also realize that - and that it needs to be maintained - that it needs and that it needs money. I have no idea what the price is, how many billion it takes to correct and correct this failure. But there is one task force to find out. I'd like to come in to a word at last. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, before me, about the nature firms. They have been made different national contributions for special projects. They have all the same basis, but then they have received special financial resources for special projects. It has also been cut down on them, but it has usually been made a budget to fix it, to get additional donations, so the foundation has been somewhat stable. But then there's an extra donation for projects. They can be related to a natural problem or to such. It is not all that seems when these amounts are compared. The same is true of the earthquakes. This funding for Kate Geopark appeared two years ago, so it is for a certain number of years. Grounds are the work of the local community. It's not the very idea that the kingdom will come in there. But now it's been in Catlough, and I completely understand the requirement, or the attitude, to be equal, and it's also true that I have a big part in coming back in my time; it's very important to me. But I just want you to know that it takes a very special deal. I know it's the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister has been considering how it can connect it to a landguard in unsuspected areas or such, so that some similar agreement will be made with the Smokey habit. It's also fine if we do this and we're clear. Other than that, I am optimistic as to the fact that this interpretation proposal is the first step in starting this adjustment process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u58	Madam President. I just wanted to thank the first member of this council's resolution, okay? paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for volunteering her. The proposal is very successful, and I take my heart to what is presented in it and, of course, am an executive at the proposal, as did all the members of the Southern Parliament. I think this is a very important matter, and it is long ago time for government to correct Southnes, but it has actually been a tragic story of how the State has cared for that part of the country so that all public service in the Southnes that under the state has come together or at least one. By no means did any of the urban development that has occurred in recent years. The proposal is that there will be a time strategy to support the government's service to the inhabitants of the Southnes and meet a large population growth there. Of course, it is long ago that it should be done. There has been unprecedented urban development and widespread growth. In fact, during the last few years, there has been about 10% increase in the number of people every two to three years. We haven't seen such an increase, I think, in a unique region here in the last few decades. In many ways, this population is unique because of various reasons. The new residents are mainly those at the airport, the International Airport in Keflavík. They work in the tourist industry, which in recent years has given the most in common financial resources in the country, and in fact, they have been the commercial means that have resulted in the rise of Iceland after a crash. The composition of these people is also special so that much of the airport workers have moved abroad. Thus, many newcomers face more pressures, such as the school system and the health system. In recent years and decades, Southnes have been affected, and they are well reported on by the proposal, such as. The departure of the 2006 defense team, which led to a major impact on the Southnes job life, becoming a long - term unemployment. After a collapse, it was not better because the largest local community lasted for a while and hasn't quite recovered from it yet. So the site also suffered disaster from the collapse. Since then, there has been an unprecedented growth in the region, and not just that, but the history of United Silicon in the region is protected by mistakes and events. The job life in the region has been severely affected. Where is it? Where is it? What does the Kingdom have to offer? The government will have to give it to health care in the Southnes, as has been very well heard in the past year. She's down a long way to what's acceptable. The law has also had to make sure that it is out of harmony with what is needed in such large areas. The secondary schools, and especially the road system, have had to endure collapses. It's not a long way up to the airport, but it hasn't been doubled yet from the capital and up to the terminal and not predictable in the years to come. So I support this suggestion and thank her for her and hope that she will have a good start this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u59	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a interpretation of the carbon label on meat products. At the proposal, I'm Þorgrímur, Sigmundsson, the first carrier, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir Þórarinsson, Sigrónsson, Jónsson, and Gerstein Sæmundsson. The proposal is not long or complicated, but it is that the Council concluded to hide marine economists and agricultural administrators from a more precise location of the origin of meat products. if you see information about the particular product's carbon footprints. The secretary will explain the situation to the General by the end of April 2019. To explain what is involved, a recent report published by the United Nations Climate Committee sheds light on the great challenges mankind faces on climate issues. It shows that climate change needs immediate action to prevent the average global temperature rise by more than 1.5° with tragic consequences to the environment. Clearly, then, all kingdoms need to respond with power. The Environment and Resource Minister has proposed a climate action programme which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to increased carbon binding so that Iceland can support the objectives of the Paris Convention to 2030 and the national government's goals on noncarbonization in the year 2040. Our policy is ambitious, but it can be better if it works. All benefits must be considered in reducing the carbon footprint. Carnivores are brought here from all over the world, with environmental impact. Clearly, the carbon footprint of meat transferred, e.g. New Zealand is much bigger than the meat taken to a camp from local manufacturers. In recent years consumers' demand for large increases in product information, e.g. the contents of the product and its origin. Transporters believe that consumers need information about the product's carbon footprints, i.e. the climate impacts of production and transport in the relevant product have been high. In this way, an consumer can make an informed decision and then choose a environmental option. Transporters point out that one of the measures taken by the Danish government in climate matters is to initiate a awareness among people of the impact of food production on climate. This means that food will be marked with stickers showing the effect of the product on the climate. In Sweden, registration companies in cooperation with the Swedish Farmers have created a food labeling system that shows how the production has affected climate. I recommend that the motion finally extend to the treatment of the dog. The employment committee following a discussion here at the Senate Hall, has good coverage and progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u60	Madam President. It's nice to get such a thing out. But there are some things I wanted to curious about. One factor is that in the title, carbon markings are spoken of. I would have thought that since meat is incorporated in carbon - chemical organics, it all goes on a carbon grate - it would be more appropriate to talk about carbon footprinting or carbon dioxide label on meat products. I wanted to ask you what. A senator as to whether this was not a normal thing to do. Also, whether it was normal to talk about food in general. Taking meat especially out of parentheses is a waste of opportunities, you might say. It would require taking things like transport and other things, not to mention nutrients and their history, all that is involved, and is in the chain of value when these products are produced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this fine tip. I agree completely that it would be nice to have all the food in mind. This emphasizes that we try to produce as much in our country as possible and would like to be self-sustained on that subject. It's very nice to mention this with the title, that it's not so simply spoken and might be more detailed to prove what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u62	Madam President. This may be not necessarily about being thorough, but it simply is. But I want to be curious about something else. It seems that there is a premeditated premeditated premium in the case, that domestic meat products always have lower carbon footprints than those introduced. That may well be so. However, it is not proper to consider that in the production of domestic meats, it is naturally used. fossil fuels that are exported into the country and have to be burned to keep running things and the like? How can you tell? A senator would consider setting this in context? And then the other, there are certainly some measures going on in the world about the same meaning. But would it not be best to try to achieve some international, joint, standard - meaning effort, even electronically, so that all measure the same in different countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u63	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. Yeah, that's a very good point. It would be very good if we could have some common meaning and could join together to have it even electronically, so that you do not have to complicate things with endless meanings of cost. But I can see that it needs to start somewhere. This may also be the reason why only meat was being prescribed instead of even going to vegetable production or food production from dairy products and such. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u64	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the story. It looks like I'm in a place like what I'm doing. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy on my counter. I'd like to ask why they put a focus on meat products, but not on imported products. I think it is very important for consumers who want to be aware of the environmental impact their consumption has to make informed decisions at the store. It would have to mean meat, no matter where it comes from, as well as its effect on vegetables, where it is, for example. transport transport is relatively much higher than that of total spora since the transport pathway is a negligible part of the overall effect of the production and transport process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for. It's just the best indication, of both domestic and imported goods, that they can be marked. I hope that's how the pro board handles the situation. When the senator is discussing ecology, it is certainly true that it can be of importance to vegetables. There is also another thing that I would like to add that could make this more detailed. It's a waste. I'm sure there's more waste in vegetables than carnivores, if we take it a little longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u66	A respectable president. I appreciate how much the senator takes on any change in this matter because I think it needs to be considered quite wide. If we have begun to gather items other than pure manufacturing factors and transport factors in terms of food impacts on the environment, we need to consider, for example. in the production of meats in this country, the land use factor which is one of the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions in the country. There's a big strip of meat. Then we need to discuss how we can change our eating habits so that we can reduce the consumption of meat, just whole - souled, regardless of what we eat. In Iceland or around the world, no matter if you look at it, agriculture stands for 10 to15% of greenhouse gas emissions. Half of this is due to visceralisation of ruminants, which are difficult to reach to some extent except by reducing their number of animals by reducing their consumption of meat. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u67	V.E.G. President. I understand what the Senator is doing and thank him very much. I'm not quite willing to reduce my less meat intake, if I can say so, but I could still try to eat domestic production. As I understand the situation, the financial resources of the country have dropped considerably, so something is being thought of in these areas, something is being thought of by the government. The consumers may be more alert now than they were just two years ago and may be more careful when it comes to eating what we have access to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u68	A respectable president. Now most of the questions I had here have been answered, but otherwise I commend the proposal for making a decision. I wanted to point out one thing I found out at the Second Creation Center the other day, which makes me look forward to seeing these markings on carnivores, on vegetables, even in other things. When we were looking at the new fishing technique, a projection that is very successful, we were found to be present. Said it would take about six gallons [4 L] of oil to extract one kilo of shrimp. I think the figures you'll see on these markings will be a bit astrogenic, but people will be surprised. That is why I take my heart to this synonym and wish her well-being through the committee and with all the suggestions that came with the previous opposers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u69	V.E.G. President. I thank you very much for this remark, or tip, this may not be a direct comment. But it would certainly be exciting to see it not as if we were studying an audition for how something might look. Then even some imported food could be compared to domestic production, what's the difference, and take it all along, as it exactly says to oil costs or how much it takes. So I think it's very nice, very nice, and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter for measuring for this synopsis proposal, which, in fact, I'm one of the movers. She's taken from her and what. Specialist council member Sigmundsson, who was in here before Christmas. I can agree with those who have been here before in a speaker's office and that these foods can be viewed in general, which are also produced here at home to help with the proposal when it comes to committees and with other points I don't have time to mention in this talk. I just want to say thank you for this speech and maybe ask you a second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u71	V.E.G. President. I thank a senator very much for their cooperation, isn't that what they say here on the sideline? I hope, too, that this proposal is well paid on the job board. Now I started thinking about it. Now we have reports that the largest hotel in the country carries everything in by itself. It's gonna be exciting to see if these chains will change the course, so to speak, so we all go on one thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u72	V.E.G. President. Yes, it's fun to be involved because we're dealing with this disaster, which contributes to climate change. Many people have talked about it, and we also learned what to do in order to meet the challenge better. Just this move between countries, both by ships and by airplanes, is one of the factors that add to this challenge, and may be able to expand it with perhaps other interpretation proposals for other aspects of this problem in various imports other than food. Just because the guy on the job board is on the job committee, I'm going to welcome this Senate resolution and hope she gets a good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's victory for a great deal. There may be one thing that should not be forgotten about this either. They are sheep farmers, their interests must be filled with all this thought, even though you may see more food under than just lamb. In spite of everything, we want to contribute to the purchase of domestic production and in some way we can become self-sufficient in what we do. I hope this is part of it, and like I started by saying, "We have to start somewhere."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u74	Madam President. I do not make a comment to the President's conference board on this occasion, but I find that when I first arrived at a council not many years ago, I was politely advised that it would be a custom for men of the same category to be in opposition to one another, the opposite form was primarily because men of the same category might have a similar view of matters and that it would just be a matter of poaching up conversation, but certainly can arise the case that men of the same category simply disagree and have something to discuss. [[Just think: That's what's going to happen.]] That happens, but I think it's reason to mention, in view of what we've seen over the past few days, in 70 C.E. Congress is said to allow the president to give a reply, and it is expected that he may also let them go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u75	A respectable president. By the time I was 17 years old learning a car in Selephoss, I was rapidly blind to what I was taught. Sometimes it grabs a person when they get past Mount Ingolfs at a speed of 90 miles [90 km] and suddenly reach 50 miles [50 km] in Seleucus and forget. They keep busy and do not slow down. I feel the same thing happens here with a member of the Central Party who are still, after 18 hours of practice in resisting one another in the last two days, driving a little too fast. I see that here is a representative of the Central Party on the Presidency Committee here at the Hall, and he expects his associates to be kindly reminded that such answers are not for the better if they are not about to go up to the pontu and repeat the language.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u76	Madam President. I missed this fun, except for the last one. This room has freedom of speech, and it is not usually limited unless there is something very busy. I understand the dictators from this direction. These are people who promote that ideologies, but for us, I think it's only possible that humans have freedom of speech and right to propose and that they can conduct their language in some way unregistered by someone else. I think it's the best thing to do. I want less of it. A senator suggests that although he is young in years, perhaps he should review some of the discussions between 2013 and 2016 when his associates were standing here for a long time and discussing nothing with each other. I don't really understand this discussion, Madam President, unless I understand that some dictators come from this direction. I ask men to calm down and show consideration for one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u77	A respectable president. It is not my intention to extend this discussion any more than when I am accused by one of the council presidents of dictatorial tendensa - President, twice - and by asking for a censorship in the council that I did not hesitate to direct it to a seated president that a member of Congress is a rebuke.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u78	A respectable president. No doubt you can find examples of how appropriate and completely preconceived people of the same category respond to one another, e.g. When people come from different ideals, speak for different interests, and reflect different groups. They have different viewpoints, although they have the same basic ideals and are therefore part of the same category. The other is a different matter if people of the same category come repeatedly, over and over, in the platform to join one another, the kind of conversation that takes place has changed its purpose. I want less of it. Councilmen own it, like the highest. As a matter of fact, the President would have made that promise a reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u79	Madam President. I'm going to add the third time, protesting that humans have dictatorial expressions like that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson lived up here. As I said before, there is great freedom of speech in this hall, and people follow the council as they are. If a person is to be dosed using specific formulas on how to speak, we will likely need to change the shape of Congress. It may well be that the second group of the Allied council is united in a tight grip on freedom of speech. It would be very informative, and it would be interesting if such a suggestion were made. I think they're just supposed to walk all the way and change Congress if they're so uptight about it. I say again I think men should look back in history a little bit. It is close to the 2013st,2016, where many of these were long discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u80	Madam President. You're right. You're right. The third vice president of the World Congress points out, often having to discuss the matter here during the season of 2013-2016, with major issues and major disagreements. On the other hand, we respected the rule of work we've had at the council, not to turn back, or to ask group members out unless there's something very special and only in absolute exceptional circumstances. When it comes to dictatorial expressions, I find it very strange if one group at the General Assembly is going to review the procedure we have had at the council without so much to discuss with us at one meeting. That would be, for example. it is up to the council members to adopt the matter because it will change our appearance and emphasis in our conversations in this chamber if we are to adopt it as the highest order. The third vice president of the Generals would love to do so if I'm hearing the right thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u81	A respectable president. Just a matter of freedom of speech. I have no objection if people of the same category respond to one another if they have something perplexing to offer. In this case, the opposite occurred at the time of the attack. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður that he might have asked a question in a later answer. There was no addition to such an event, and the counterargument had time for the other chiefs to change their timelines and there were three in response that had two minutes the first time and then one minute to ask, but it changed to one and one. There, in effect, members of a group have a set of freedom of speech for other leading leaders who brought a very objective and useful addition to the matter and who may not have had time to get everything they wanted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u82	A respectable president. I found it odd to hear a member of the council who spoke here and monopolizeed the platform 24 hours together without any attempting to build up a story or to stop it from complaining about some kind of dictatorial offer when other members of Congress take little note of the fact that it may have been a bit much. I object to that. A senator uses such wording and language to speak to fellow members of his own like shoal. A senator used force. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I don't think we should talk to one another like that and not use words like that. I believe that when you're just out of the filament of speech that's certainly breaking a blade because there's one group that kept your language quiet, you should be tactful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u83	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up to see if I could finish this discussion about nothing. Of course, this speech code of the Middle Party was none of the people involved, who were the entire Central Party, but all of it is well known. I haven't been there long, and though, six years, there's a lot of time, and I've seen all of this together before, even when people have been in opposition to one another, so I don't think it's a reason to go up here in the conference board in general to discuss this for a very long time. I don't think the Central Party made any money in this presentation and all the talks except perhaps in an effort to prove that it is a special group - that it is and that there is no disagreement. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think he totally put it back. I'm not interested in limiting the freedom of expression by members of the Central Party, but I think it would be better to limit something a little more than what was done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u84	Madam President. I'm gonna get involved in the short discussion about nothing, like what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son called her; she is but a little; she is nothing. However, when the use of the word "freeness of speech " has become" difficult " to speak up. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson to carefully examine the definition of freedom of expression because we senators in pontu have many limitations in expressing ourselves, e.g. is the language of the United States of England. I don't think that it's a violation of my freedom of expression not to speak Chinese, and I don't think it's a violation of my freedom of expression that it's customary for a meeting board to be a time of speech. It's a seminary and tradition that's been following them for decades, so that's what it's all about, and not necessarily--I'm asking, Madam President, to what it's about. Congress officials do not use freedom of expression to the wrong purpose. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u85	Madam President. I'm just gonna apologize for starting this conversation. My words were meant to be kind to those who could take it to heart that it's fine that we try to respect each other's time and are not wasting it in conversation - or equivalent, as has now become a term.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u86	Madam President. I think this discussion is very important, and I can't agree that it's not about anything if you're going to break this rule. I've spent ten years at a council meeting, and I've never seen anything like what has happened for the last few days in this council hall. What is possible to do, if men want to adopt that group members respond to one another, they can block the conversation completely so that they just come into a pit and join the one who was talking. Only four senators can say yes, and we can completely shut down the conversation that the answers allow us to do in this room. I think this discussion is particularly important now. It is about how we come together to communicate in this Assembly Hall, and we need, of course, to discuss it between us if one group is going to break it without speaking to a king or a priest. [[The president calls.]] That's dictatorial, Madam President. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u87	The President expects this campaign for President's conference management to be completed, at least For now, the president wants to say that the incident that took place earlier when members of the group answered one another, there was no way in which they kept everyone's freedom of speech in view of the opportunity to give other talks and to make further objections. So I don't think that a certain incident affected one or more people or the freedom to speak at all. However, it was being referred to a discussion that has taken place here during the last days, and people may have different opinions about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u88	A respectable president. Thank you for the President's conference board. I'd like to first mention only the program of the council. There are four issues that would be considered on the agenda. Carbon label on a meat product that just ended, this issue on carbon charge efficiency and later on on the agenda of this meeting is a matter of income tax or deduction due to carbon balance, followed by land recovery and the production of chemicals. Everything that really is climate issues and can be reasoned that some of the other issues on the list are also. I would like to commend the council for this interest, which it clearly shows to this enormously important subject. This synoptic proposal, a senator's proposal, is about the effectiveness of carbon charge and is moved by the Congress of Pirata. It reads: The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretary in agreement with the Environment and Resource Minister to provide a bill for changes in carbon costs in terms of increase or decline in accordance with the effectiveness of meeting Iceland's commitments under the Paris Convention the previous year and the purpose of achieving the non-carbonization of Iceland's 2040. The minister will present the bill no later than in the spring council of 2019.◯ - It's very soon. The report discusses the reasons for this, but the global warming of the earth because of man - made carbon emissions is the greatest threat facing mankind. Carbon consumption has been used in the fight against climate change, and it is one of the methods directly affecting the financial resources of companies and individuals. This proposal suggests that Ministers provide the bill for changing environmental and resource taxes to increase or decrease carbon costs in terms of how Iceland's commitments have been met under the Paris Treaty in the preceding year and the objectives of non-carbonization for the year 2040, e.g. by considering the linear reduction in emissions per year. A linear reduction, however, may not necessarily be a goal, a relative decrease, or some fixed number, or whatever way the government chooses to go as long as the goal is the same, to reach a non-carbon object. In order to improve the effectiveness of this operation, costs are suggested to increase the rate of growth if the commitment of Iceland to Paris is not successful and the goals for non-carbon Iceland are met. Paying will increase much more if goals fail. This is to encourage it to go on better next year, so the cost does not increase even more. On the other hand, the yellow root is that if you have good results in reducing emissions, the charge is reduced. The idea and development of this conference took place at the LYSU 01 - rock festival of the conversation held in Akureyri in the fall of 2018, where the public had the opportunity to produce suggestions and ideas for action on climate matters. A key point related to this synonym is that there must also be a presupposed pattern of success. The government will publish it, saying: "We're going to this place in a year, two years, five years, ten years. This gives us a clear outline of the results that governments will achieve each year, or every two years, or whatever they will be. Other ideas in progress, e.g. I'm thinking that it would be a good idea to set a similar standard as this on climate issues in free trades and treaties where it was just that the carbon pay would go up, because it's gonna be a little different if we don't raise the carbon account very much, but against neighboring countries or business nations. It would produce a certain imbalance in the flow of a product with a lower carbon price abroad and would come to this country in a much more efficient way without taking into account the carbon footprint of that product. It would be necessary to consider that in treaties or non-employment agreements, the carbon account is being held up. Even this could be linked to the introduction of certain carbon - stolen goods from countries that have no carbon atoms. We can draw from, for example. The Congress proposal, which was discussed earlier, was about a carbon marking on meat products. The precise amount of carbon footprint is obviously available, and each of the carbon coins is relative to the country's origin. If there's a difference between that and here in Iceland, there's a certain difference of circumstances that would normally be equal. The objective is that we need to get rid of this and become non-carbon. The high priority for climate is because if there is no response at that level, what we do is of very little importance. That is why Piratar and I set up telepathy banks in LYSU, where we gathered visitors and walk at the festival and then allowed people to choose which ideas were most important and tailored. The objective was to propose a conquistador with the main ideas of the meeting, but it was followed by a climate action program where most of the ideas presented at the meeting were well developed, I say in such small pets. One idea, however, stood out, and that was the one suggested in this proposal. This is also the idea that most votes. Let me just explain how this idea works. You see, Iceland and I know the price of insurance very well. If prices go up, the loan goes up automatically. This idea is about securing the environment. If we fail to achieve the results that we need to achieve in relation to the international agreements we are committed to hold, the carbon account, which is the only government government government that reflects the real cost of climate change. The yellow root here, as I said before, is if we succeed, and if we do good and better, the carbon money will turn in. Details: If the carbon bill is 100 k. initially and aim to reduce emissions by 10% in that year, and it works, but the carbon costs remain unchanged. However, if this were to reach a 15% reduction in emissions, the carbon charge may be reduced by 5%. If the target is not reached and if it were just a 5% reduction, the carbon charge would not only increase about 5%, but about a multiple of the difference on that. This is so as to respond more quickly to the fact that carbon costs are actually wrong and increase motivation to reduce emissions. The increase would be small if the difference was small but gradually increased as the difference becomes larger. Unchanged emissions when the expected reduction was 10% would, of course, raise the carbon bill by perhaps 50%. A precise transfer is given to the minister and to the synoptic process when the bill comes to the council. The aim of the carbon bill is and has always been to cause climate change as a result of emissions payment for the costs resulting from countermand measures. This is a price intended for self-employing when methods must be suspended that result in the collection of carbon bills. It is placed in the hands of consumers and companies to choose and refuse, but so far the carbon account has simply been so low that it has not had a countable effect. Of course, an increase in carbon costs can quickly destroy consumers. In a short time, it's very important. This is inevitable in some way, but if the carbon bill is not high enough for new technologies to go to bed, we will end up in the disasters foretold by the present forecasting models. These consequences are much worse than temporary increases. If checked, temporary short-term increases in carbon costs or long-term increases and disasters should not be the option. It would simply be foolish to choose a disaster. The situation today is that we should reduce emissions by 40%. That is, based on the Kyoto Protocol, followed by the Paris Conference. Based on the 1990 situation, emissions should be reduced by 40%, however, we have increased emissions so that we need to reduce them from the current position around approximately 40%. 50% to meet Kyoto targets. However, all agreements have been made with a variety of complex calculations, meaning that we will submit the Kyoto Protocol to some European countries. That means all we have to do is reduce emissions by less than 30%, by the time we're 10 to 15 years old or so. The reason is that some countries that we deliver emissions of emissions with a reduced proportion compared to this new reference number from around 2005 or so. The more abundant nations in Europe are expected to reduce emissions by 40% compared with those figures and are already lower than the 1990s. We get to be with them, so all we have to do is reduce emissions by 30% and we're really lucky. But we have not yielded to the results we have made as a nation. We get worse results because others do better. I don't quite like it, but there it is. However, the purpose as it is set out today and the present state of government is that regardless of whether a reduction in carbon emissions is only 30% by 2030, we, ten years later, are supposed to be out of carbon. It is a huge objective, and it will be interesting to see a review of the climate-based effectiveness programme on how that process will look. This should then provide a comprehensive schedule for what that process looks like, e.g. so it is very important to get into these procedures. The world's present state, though lucky, is not a good thing. The Paris Convention has been called a long - term catastrophe agreement. The assessment of the situation is pessimistic, but the evaluation was made when the Paris convention was conducted. We don't know how to reverse evolution. We don't know how to be carbon-negative. It makes the situation worse, worse, and worse - until we know how to have nothing of carbon. No matter what we do, until we learn to be carbon-negative, the situation will always be worse and worse, and we will make irreversible changes on earth, changes that result in the extinction of animal species and plant species. Changes that may not make the earth lifeless for the human being at least Not right away, it will have a tremendous impact on people's dwellings throughout the earth. This interpretation proposal may not solve all of the world's problems, but by encouraging those who release less quickly, we will get through at least one day. The speed of achieving the target of non-carbon, which is the first objective, is that we are at least stop adding to the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u89	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of competitive legislation and orderliness. The proposal reads: The General concluded that a prime minister would have a comprehensive assessment of national legislation and regulations, taking into account the impact of active market competition. Work will be searched for cooperation with the Economic and Development Institute, OECD. It must be allowed to divide the assessment to a point but should be fully completed by the end of 2021. It's no secret, Mr. President, that it is sadly, so our interest in free and uncontrolled competition has been rather limited. In fact, all kinds of seas, commerce, currency capitals, government restrictions on free employment have been identified, rather, when we look into our history. If we look e.g. To most of the Israelites who fought for their independence at the time, such as Jón the son of Sigurðsson, known as the president, this was a far more outstanding characteristic of these men, of how sincere they were for their freedom in business, both between countries and countries, and of their sincere belief that it was the most successful way to build up a strong and good society. On the other hand, it seems that soon out of a federal institution, the interest of free competition has greatly diminished, and it might even be said that they have increased in equal proportion to some form of management, and especially the source of professional management. Unfortunately, it is still exaggerating in the community today, and it was really not until our entry, first in the EFTA Free Trade Association and then with its membership into the European Economic Areas we took to update our competitive legislation and try to introduce here a reasonably free competition and a job control in this regard. Despite the fact that much has been accomplished in the past 25 years since we became members of the European Economic Area, still much more is needed by various competitive efforts in our laws and regulations. It is undisputed that a powerful and competitive environment contributes to growth in economic growth and production, lower prices, and higher standard of living in general. Perhaps it is amazing how little politics have been involved in this important matter over the years. An environment that enables new companies to deal with existing markets and provides opportunities for corporate growth based on their competitiveness is precisely necessary for consumers and companies. A number of studies have shown that more competitive jobs reap growth in production. As we know well, e.g. from a discussion in a dress-off interview, there is ultimately the basis for a better quality here in the country of production growth; it is the direct benefit of earners, not only in lower prices, but ultimately in terms of higher pay. It is evident that the high competitive business places more emphasis on production and the holding back the cost than does a company on the low-level markets. The reason is quite obvious. An enterprise in a competitive market is taking prices out of the market, and therefore it is not automatically able to roll costs into prices, unlike an enterprise in a competitive environment, which is often relatively easy to exasperate costs of high prices because of the lack of consumer freedom of choice. Similarly, there is no doubt that an unnecessary burden of rule or a business environment that promotes competition or isolation can be harmful to economic growth. It is well known in these substances that it is much more difficult for e.g. a new company looking into a market where regulations are complex and burdensome, unduly burdensome, which includes certain competitive protection for the companies working there, apart from obvious restrictions that are often established in the laws and regulations for competition itself. There is also a chance that even more competition will have a positive effect on the equation. It is always at the expense of the public in the form of a higher price of goods. But the benefits of the few will go to a few of the owners of the enterprise. It is often the worst affected if competition or lack of competition leads to higher prices or to lower quality. Similarly, research shows that although increased competition often results in economy and short - term decrease in jobs, the effects of longer periods of employment are not obvious. The competition also follows innovation, and eventually a high level of competitive employment or the formation of new jobs leads to increased production, high level of competitiveness in the economy. In a synopsis of this arrangement, prices on several markets in this country over the period of two decades in 1997, and to be honest, Mr. President, it is most striking to see the price. It is tried to evaluate the competitiveness of the market, and it is obvious from the view that competition has a significant impact on prices, even in this country. Thus, the most abundant products are the products that are dependent on the most competitive, low - level products, or even monotonous products. These include factors, such as the postal service, which has more than four times the price for this reference period. The same can be said of the cost of rent cars or health services, alcohol and tobacco, public services and electricity that have increased considerably above the index price of consumers during this reference period. But at the other end there are products such as telephone service, clothing, shoes, and foreign vegetables, which are exactly competitive. These products compete with the import of free and have taken the lead in the last 15 years. These prices are clearly evident, since all of these products have increased considerably less than the index price of consumers at the same time. It is interesting, in fact, to say that shoes are commonly said, e.g. When it comes to high food prices in this country, the problem is in the store, not the competitive barriers we've built in agriculture. However, this shows that the store itself is exactly an active and competitive place. Farms without vegetables have e.g. increased considerably more than the index price of consumption during this reference period despite the official price control to hold back the prices in the understatement. There are other markets that still have the characteristics of the unsupervised or highly competitive barriers. It should first include the energy market where there is still a very limited competition, e.g. Regarding transport and distribution of electricity, production of electricity at the level of total goods, as well as the source of heating. Really, we all live in a kind of monopoly environment in that service. Farming has been mentioned previously, but there are substantial competitively in various types of domestic food products, and in the health system, of course, where private business is built several and increasing limits, especially by existing government, which appears to be a special offense against the health care system. The same can be said of the educational system, where competition is still a significant factor, but of course it will not be passed on to the financial market that deals with significant little competition that is reflected in the most costly, inefficient, competitive, competitive, and competitive financial systems in the international setting that, so to speak, in the currency; the small, unstable currency that has caused it, repeatedly discussed by the majority of experts, that foreign banks have no interest in working here on land, much less to buy up like one of the banks. Therefore, it is long time by the assessment of the transporter's proposal that the full assessment of the effects of law and rules of active competition will be conducted. Therefore, it is recommended that the prime minister be entrusted with such a evaluation and that, in the past, a cooperation with the Economic and Economic Development Organization will be undertaken and that the end of this competitive process will be no later than 2021. It may therefore be noted that this is a well - known competitive version of OECD. The countries that have gone through such competitive efforts, e.g. Australia, has a positive influence on such assessments. In the case of Australia, economic growth has been apparent following the improvement induced by the first evaluation of OECD in these substances. The Australians are, that I suppose, in these spoken words in the second round by such a rule tour in cooperation with OECD, in the light of their positive experience of the first. I have no doubt that this report would be very useful to Icelandic employment and would drive them unmistakably into where we live with extreme competitiveness. It may not be obvious until we consult where such obstacles can lie. Access block may be unintentional, as it might be said, on the part of the Lawgiver, where legislation works in a way that severely limits the access to competition in the sector. That's why I think this is a very interesting assessment. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there is already one minister in the present government, the Supreme Minister. The innovation, travel and industrial secretary of the industry, is in charge of such assessments of the competitive environment or of the transport program, which is a very positive step. I think there's every reason to go to that sort of assessment of our entire routine for all of our professional life. In addition to this, the couriers of this matter are Hanna Hrafn Gunnarsson, Helgi Jón Valdimarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the council arrangement that I find very interesting and can truly agree with the many points presented in the report. I think there is reason to mention, though, that when we are talking about the groups of goods and the active competition and the reduced prices and the use of shoes and clothing and the like, it is probably also a great deal to take care of tolls and goods. But I take my heart to see the importance of being a powerful, competitive people. I'd like to ask you what. In view of the Supreme Court, a senator for the reasons why the decree of the council is directed to the prime minister. Tourism, industrial and innovation are also competitive. I wondered if it wasn't right for the Senate to go there. Hv. A senator came into the very presence of the highest. A minister had recently started a job specific to travel services, and I also know that there are inquirys in the council regarding the competitive market. I'd like to know why the Senate arrangement is directed to the prime minister, and then I've also wondered what situation. The Parliamentary Committee will discuss the resolution after the previous session.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u91	President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're right about what you're doing. A senator should be pleased to do what is well done. In the case of clothing and shoes, the destruction of goods is quite significant, but there are also some products that are probably in the most unregulated competition today and we are able to afford our little markets through a Internet store. It is a good idea for consumers to order the same products with a relatively small amount of payoff over the Internet and so easy, as we know, that by then our postal distribution company seems to be on the move quickly, because of the same mail delivery. So it is obvious that it has worked to maintain substantial reductions in the levels of products. About a question why. Hence, a candidate on why this is directed to the prime minister is to answer that a competitive or orderly process involved in the legal and regulations of the work of the board of directors. Hence, it was considered reasonable to direct the resolution to the prime minister rather than the travel minister, industry, and innovations, which are rightly competitive. A senator pointed out. Such activities are far more extensive than the factors involved in the competitiveness and regulations related to them. It's really a review of every rule in society, more or less of all our legal frames, trying to flaunt any obstacles that may arise in that rule. This, in turn, is a good question. In view of its magnitude, a member of the Parliament's committee should deal with a judicial hearing as such. I would have liked the proposal to go to the Economic and Business Committee, but there are quite a number of committees in the same way, such as in the Board of Directors, as well as no obvious committee which should be handled by the Management Board, but the economic and business committee is often dealing with our competitive environment, and there is no unusual possibility that the proposal will take place there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u92	A respectable president. I have received confirmation that the Council's resolution is suggested. The Economic and Business Committee, and I'm not going to criticize it. For example, there is good reason that the proposal for a prime minister should be so absorbed that it will take a legal frame that may be in the home of many stewards. I have to admit that at any rate I find this a far better explanation than to form when a convention council convention of reevaluation of whale hunting and also directed it to prime minister. It was a little difficult for me to understand. Perhaps there are other examples at the council of Congress that will be a little awkward when the discussion also concerns the need for Prime Ministers to get everything on their side if the members of the council direct it to where they want to go. To this end, I give much thought to the ideologies behind this synonym. Of course, these have been a lot of work done in recent years and is something I think government needs to be concerned about, i.e. The principle and how competition thrives best in each country. Like what? A senator's speech was well - versed, perhaps the greatest dresser for the public, that there is active and competitive competition here. Fine stuff is mentioned in the report and why. A senator went over them, e.g. A service that the State has been doing, right or wrong, where the service fee has indeed gone up and at the same time, companies are even running low, as mentioned in the example of Iceland. I can't wait to get an opportunity to write about the Senate resolution at what time. The Economic and Business Committee. In fact, I also think that this work is the nature of its spending, and then we can discuss how to find it in the budget at the time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that particular need to be taken into consideration that this work is expected to be extensive, it should not be completed until the end of 2021. [[The president calls.]] So this is a lot of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u93	President. Thank you. A member of the second stand, and celebrates how well you're doing. A senator will consider this fine matter, and I will not be surprised to learn that we are on a similar line. Of course, regarding other matters directed to the prime minister, it is possible that when matters concern more than one minister's territory, it is not unusual for a prime minister to determine how this work should be done. Because of what? A senator wondered about the possible costs of this, so if the right thing is right, it is serious. I know there's been more than one mission here from OECD for the assessment as these and the Contesting Commission probably hosted an excellent campaign three, four years ago or so on the benefits of the assessment as these. Then I think I should properly assume that the estimated cost was of a magnitude of 3,300,400 million. K. So it may involve a considerable cost over a period of two to three years that would be considered as such. There is, however, no doubt that the assessment of this type of payment is an enormous investment in the public. I mentioned an example of Australian earlier, and if I recall correctly, of a presentation I received from OECD four or five years ago on the benefit of Lovela's assessment as of this, they felt that there was a sustained increase in economic growth per year that would then be back to the state by taxation at the cost that the State might provide for the assessment as of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u94	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a death-satisfaction proposal. The interpretation proposal reads, with president's permission: ▪ The General concluded to assign a health minister to gather information on death support and the development of a law code on which it is allowed, as well as frequency, cause and condition of death relief and what experience have been experienced. You will also consider whether countries that do not allow death support, especially in the North countries, Germany, and Canada, have a public discussion on the subject or work on changing the subject. Finally, a survey by health - care providers will be conducted to determine whether death aid is justified in certain cases or if they are ready to accept such a wish for fulfilled conditions and if it is agreed with the Icelandic law. The synopsis also states that information will be returned in the form of a report by the end of February 2019, which would be expected today. It will need to make some adjustments and give the Ministry a little more time to process this information. A respectable president. This isn't the first time I've made this synopsis proposal. I presented it first to a Council of 146th and then again to the 148th legislature. In recent years, there have been regular discussions of death aid, euthanasia, or suicide by means of assistance. Clearly, the setting of such delicate matters varies from country to country. The decision that I make in this council to use the word death aid also reveals a different discussion about this object. In the past, euthanasia had just been used. I would like to compare this with the discussion of abortion or pregnancy break. I like that word better. I find it more vivid to be allowed to die with dignity, to end life deliberately in order to relieve the subject of unbearable pain or suffering. I repeat: That's what's meant by death support. In November 2015, Särst had a survey of the principles and beliefs of the Icelanders. One question in the survey was: Are you in opposition or opposed to helping a person end his life if he has an incurable disease (corruption death)? 74.9% of respondents were highly or more in favor, 18% were neither nor 7.1% very or rather opposed. In 1997 an article in the medical journal considered the health - care professional's view of ethical opinions on the limitations of treatment of the end of life. In a subsequent study, one of the questions on death support or euthanasia was reported in the study. Only 5% of medical personnel and 9% of nurses considered euthanasia to be justified under some circumstances, but only 2% of respondents were able to grant such a wish. In 2010, when a comparable survey was conducted, euthanasia was justified in 18% of doctors and 20% of nurses, but only 3% wanted to do so. In January 2017, the organization established a life - respect organization, a death - support organization. Following the organization, as well as the cultural surveys referred to here, a discussion in the community arose. Transporters feel that there is a basis for the development of the discussion and to be objective information on the situation in other countries as well as on health care providers. It is important that governments gather that information together and provide clear and impartial information. The reason why I highlight it is that frequent and social discussions are being questioned about what is right and what is wrong in these topics. That is why we feel that such information is important to those in Congress, and if that is the case, we can build the discussion on it and a further operation. At the same time, I would like to say that this proposal does not involve a decision as to whether there is a reason to change the law of a local country. The purpose is to trust the basis for needed discussion on sensitive topics. My companions are Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson's son, Kolbeinn Óttarsson of Proppé, Silja Dög Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Gjorn S. Brjánsson, and Thorhild Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Avar. As I said earlier, the decision to create information and to build a foundation is primarily a matter of ethically sensitive debate. Of course, there are conflicting views. It's just normal. That is the case. A respectable president. I believe, though, that a body of Congress should be able to agree with this synonym, receive these data, and follow a controversial discussion, if the result becomes that either I or other members of Congress decide to submit a bill that would simply open a death aid. To go on to that point, it is clear that if we were to open the way to death assistance, it would require changes in various laws, at least in the law of medicine, and so on, in punishment and other forms, there may be other factors involved. The college community has shown some interest in this matter. I know that a master at law has done quite well on this matter, and psychologists and health professionals have given this much attention. When the matter was presented to the previous council, it became available to committees and received several - I do not quite remember just how many of them were - comments that have already been received, some positive and others negative; and of course, some say that the council is not to discuss this matter but, as often as it happens. A respectable president. I think it's very important that we take this discussion here and we have the guts to take it. The discussion has developed very much in the countries around us. There are not many countries allowing the death aid, knowing that, today. However, the Dutch have had many years of experience with their death - dealing assistance. There is a family doctor, but this request requires two doctors. The person must be fully capable of expressing his will at the time of such assistance. I'd say, considering what I've studied, that there was a very strong frame. Of course, there wasn't one, two and ten, if I may say so, that the Dutch decided to change their laws. It took quite a long and long time for that, but I understand that this is the case with the average Dutch community. There have been many discussions and conflicting opinions. The Swiss have also allowed such things, and in other ways it is. In the Netherlands, no one can get this help but be a Dutch citizen and be inside their medical systems and have a family doctor who knows and knows all about it. But in Switzerland you can buy such help from a private company. Of course, people pay a considerable amount of money. An Icelander has taken advantage of that help. Some states of the United States allow doctors to write out pills that can lead to death. Taking them and therefore storing them, with the risk it can bring, is the personal responsibility. A respectable president. From what I have studied in these matters, I find the best way to be Dutch. But again, I repeat, we're just talking about calling out for that information, explaining what's in the Dutch route, and what's been the experience. I know, considering the numbers I've seen, there aren't very many people who take advantage of this service. When it is clear that the person's life cannot be saved and that doctors are unable to relieve their suffering, the cancer sufferers are mainly greatly affected. Canadians, I'm sure, have already allowed this, but at the time when I first wrote the synonym, it was in the movies. I know that the council was scheduled for a certain period of time, but I understand that it is now permitted. That's one of the things that would be interesting to get out. I think that if we want to continue in this discussion, there is much we can learn from the countries that have changed the law, as well as from other countries around us, where this discussion is as valid and as strong as it is here. The organization I referred to, a dignified president, a respect for life, has met with events and seminars on this matter. Not long ago, however, a death - care conference was held on one side and on the other, on pa·rou·siʹa as a pa·rou·siʹa. There are some conflicting views, and many have pointed out that we lack even a clearer code of law around pa·rou·siʹa. I have heard many experts in that field express themselves on this subject. Many also point out that there is no need for mortality because of the degree of progress in palliative treatment and how much better it is today than it was some years ago. Everything's fine. But I don't think I'm going to be much longer. I hope so. The welfare committee, which will be able to handle this matter after the previous session. This is the third time that the matter is presented and discussed, so there are some reports. I hope I see a lot of green buttons when we settle this synopsis proposal, hopefully at this council. I think it's important that these data are available so we can decide if and how we want to proceed with the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u95	Mr. President. You have to say, as it is, that I'm pretty thinking about this Congress resolution that we're discussing right now, of dying aid. In itself, I do not object to the fact that the matter is being discussed and examined, but I feel uncomfortable and that we may be just passing out when it comes to the possible adjustment to follow. I don't think we're there yet to discuss that step at this stage, but in no way violate the fact that the information is collected and that the discussion is made. I think that's just what's good. On the other hand, I believe that it needs to be done in a larger context than is suggested in this synonym. It focuses too much on my health, here, for example. setting up frequencies and reasons, but generally related to the health care system. I think we need to expand this. I believe these matters need to be considered with the welfare systems underneath, not just the health sector. In my mind, it's the way a person looks at his life's ending of direct access to services, living values and positions in much greater context than just those that might be related to disease. To me, this must never be a matter of being able to become some kind of resource that would be more useful to the earners than the earners are because the earners could not buy or get out of all kinds of services that the welfare system may not even offer. However, it can be clothed, with a narrow angle, in the suit of poor health, or with no hope of recovery because people think that there is enough of this life of life, while it may be a relatively social situation that can control it. In view of this, it is also of interest to consider the comments made to the National Institute of Moralology on the subject when it was submitted to the last assembly. It shows that the reason why people want euthanasia, in lands where it is permitted, was to change and not cut off from terminally ill patients, but, according to their wish for people with chronic mental illness, people who are ill - controlled by alcoholism, even people who are bored with life - what is called here, it's the "lived of life" which I give myself to be some sort of concept that is known or can be used to look for information on these matters, that is the foam that is used. The need for euthanasia is increasing. This speaks directly into the social context that I was talking about in the early part of my talk. So I think it is imperative that the welfare committee, who now gains the case, also take these factors into their jobs and that emphasis on calling along and digging up the experience of disabled people and long - suffering people - and I am referring to long - suffering diseases that are incurable and chronic but do not cause them to reduce the average life expectancy of those who suffer from them - and to look for information that exist in these groups that call for experience. Then you can have this review of Iceland's National Institute of Morality. Here the Netherlands, Belgium, and Canada have been named in the case of an authority in which countries can be viewed as role models. Then I think it's important to look to the United States where there are countries that have allowed euthanasia. It has shown that among those who have made good use of it are people with mental problems, who, of course, are people in a different position than people with terminal cancer. I think it's very important here in my previous year. calling attention to this perspective, and I call for a welfare committee to consider these points as well. If the synoptic proposal is accepted, it will be part of the report. I feel that since such work has taken place on such a broad foundation, since health factors are viewed not only by health but also by the overall welfare issues, it may be possible to discuss whether the next two laws should be changed. But I don't think we're at that place right now discussing it in this context. It should provide information, take them into broad context, and keep the discussion as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u96	A respectable president. We're here on sensitive matters of opinion. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for providing this synopsis that affects all time in human life, the end of life. The mover does not recommend for the third time in order to agree with one or another course, nor does he speak or other transporter members for a certain attitude or position in regard to these persistent and demanding issues. Rather, it is the purpose of promoting discussions in the community through careful, open - minded, and unfilled with holy zeal in advance. In life - style, most of us get to know one way or another of this moment, this unique moment of death, the amazing, tiny strands that understand life and death, when the thread is lost. No matter what death may be like, the same deep emotions arise because we are dealing with the roots of ourselves, the source, the beginning, and the end. Not surprisingly, there may be differences in viewpoint on this subject. In our day, the average age has been rising and medical science has constantly found new ways to extend patients' lives. The voices of the common people are heard as anxious even because they fear that people will live in spite of serious health problems, old age, and physical decay, with no hope of a worthy life with dignity. Discussion of these issues has not been extensive or stable in this country, really. Yet, this has been done at several intervals. This can be referred to in the 1997 study, and a survey can be made for nationals since 2001 and the study of the literature of the literature of the community at that time and throughout the years. Since then, this has been discussed but has not been controlled by the country since then. However, some reactions have been made to this discussion, especially since the founding of the Association of Life - Styles established here in 2017, an association for Death Help. A respectable president. However, there has been a profound wake - up in the affairs of death in the countries around us, and a number of changes in regulations have been seen throughout the rights to help die. In European societies, it is evident that since the turn of the century, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg have legalized direct death aid. It is the only European nations that provide such assistance. The North countries have been very involved in this matter. The use of thought has also changed in this regard, as a transporter was introduced. We no longer use validated terms such as euthanasia or euthanasia, or at least to a much less. Death aid is a term that is mild, vivid, and considerably less neutral. In the autumn of 2000, death aid laws were adopted in the Netherlands. There are strict rules for implementation and conditions for doctors to help their patient die. The physician must be convinced that the patient's request is voluntary, thought-on and thought-on. A doctor must be convinced that the patient's suffering is persistent, incurable, and unbearable. The physician must also inform the patient about his condition and his prospects and that the patient is convinced that there is no other reasonable solution to his condition. It is also necessary for a doctor to consult at least one other independent physician who has seen the patient and has given a written opinion. The appropriate corpses also follow this process. In fact, the Dutch Code is similar to a law on the patient's rights since 1997. In par. 24th. discussed the right of terminally ill patients to die with dignity, by permission of a president: A dying patient has the right to die with dignity. If a terminally ill patient is unmistakably suggesting that he does not wish for treatment that will prolong his life or that attempt to restore him to life, the physician should respect that decision. If a terminally ill patient is too mentally or physically in order to be able to participate in treatment decisions, the physician should seek to consult with the patient's health care providers before deciding for continuation or discontinuation of treatment. A respectable president. It's not a simple solution, as it has always been. The discussion presents a number of factors in our developed society, ethical factors and opinions, philosophical factors, legal and health factors. Philosophers and health groups in this country have taken this into account in their study. They look at the subject each one from his or her own perspective. These attitudes include: suggest that the patient cannot expect a physician or another healthcare professional to take his or her life and ask whether it is ever legitimate, the role of health - care professionals in this situation is to seek to properly respect the patient's needs and feelings, and when a person is being treated, it is humanable to make it easier for her to die well and not to prevent the proper death of the last day. But then there are ethical views that point out that in Iceland patients have by the code of law, as mentioned earlier, the right to refuse treatment that keeps them alive. These include rejection of vital nourishment. So it is asked: If individuals can reject life - giving treatment and, in effect, decide to die sooner, why should they not make an informed decision to die at once? Is an adult and a self - centered person not in control of when and how he dies, who should be in charge? The government? Religious Authorities? Careers? Health care professionals? A respectable president. There are many issues of opinion, and there is no doubt that opinions differ. The work carried out by health care professionals is frequently faced with a difficult situation and will be handled in a professional and objective way in behalf of their patients and in line with established medical objectives. National research that has been conducted in countries where death aid is prohibited, such as here, shows that numerous doctors complete the lives of patients with over-drug overdose in order to alleviate their suffering and to be fully aware of what this will mean. At the same time, there is another treatment that may frequently lead to termination of the patient's life. Since there is little evidence that the situation is different in this country, indirect assistance of the dead is likely to be given, although this may be seldom recognized. The surgeon general's guidance on the limitations of treatment at the end of life, which are on the basis of 1996, includes: discussed palliative treatment. Treatment is based on the absence of medical treatment by the patient who will be treated for relief of pain and maintenance of quality of life. Life-free survival is then the final phase of euthanasia. Then we are talking about a much shorter time, and we think it's more general in our day. In Iceland, treatment has been administered for many years. Corporate department was e.g. In 1999, Kópavogi opened up to be a new member of the health - care network in Iceland. This service has developed since then, and it is administered to all medical institutions in the country, as well as to nursing homes. A respectable president. A late medical professor of medicine spoke in a newspaper interview that since his people, Begar, could have a good pacifist treatment, they could also agree with the death aid, which is the key to the Belgian model. Death relief came from palliative treatment and has now become part of it. He counsels the Icelanders and encourages us to have a calm and general discussion of this persistent subject. Once we have considered this carefully, discuss the subject thoroughly in the educational community, and in the general public, it may well be possible for us to make the guest's words from Belgium ours when he says: " It's not about ending life, it's about ending suffering. A respectable president. So it is important that we accept the discussion and that this conclusion will be adopted at the high Council but its objective, as stated in the Parliamentary Directive, be agreed that the Minister of Health, together with the information on death support and the development of a law code on which it is permitted, as well as the frequency, the causes and conditions of death relief, and what experience there has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u97	Mr. President. This motion is laid forward for the third time in terms of death or euthanasia. This means bringing an end to life deliberately in an effort to relieve the sufferer of unbearable pain or suffering. The proposal aims to investigate the legal environment of death support in countries where it is legal. In addition, a health - care poll on their death - care attitude is suggested. It should be noted that last year, Arnar Vilhjálmur Arnarsson published a master's law firm on the subject of death. An instructor was Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, vice president of the National Court, and former judge of the European Court of Human Rights. The study is well performed and has an excellent overview of the legal environment in other countries. It is, in fact, there. To find a comparison between legislation and law in the Netherlands and Belgium, where death aid is permitted. There is also a discussion of legal action in Switzerland, where direct death aid is illegal while medical assistance or other suicide partners are legal. Such assistance is considered to be part of the individual's human rights rather than medical services. This same work also discusses the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and the handling of matters related to death support and other life - stopping measures. So there is already an excellent subject in this country to help with death, so to speak. Mr. President. I can't understand this suggestion any other than that, for its purpose to judge, but the carriers are in favour of the death aid. It even came. ... ina matterwhat. A pilot, huh? paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, that she had the best thoughts of the Dutch way, as she spoke in her speech. That my judgment might be understood by the proposal that it is, in effect, preparing for the bill that death aid will be a reality here on the land. As we know, death aid or euthanasia is prohibited in this country. To help another person die in prison punishment, according to Article 213, par. a general penal law. I understand this case, if it is accepted, that it may therefore be only a matter of time before a discussion of validating the right to die at the General Assembly. This is not to my satisfaction because my opinion is very complex and has moral, professional, legal, and religious issues. In European societies, it is evident that since the turn of the century, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg have legalized direct death aid. They are also the only European nations that provide such assistance. National scholars have questioned whether the Council should accept a death warrant. Both healthcare professionals and patients may be in a very difficult situation if death aid is permitted. If they tell them that many responsibilities arise when it comes to the aid of death. The situation is difficult when a patient is available for medical assistance. Healthcare professionals will be placed in a difficult position with the patient's wish and caregivers to end their life. I believe that the lawgiver cannot put staff in such situations. If death aid is permitted, even patients may feel that this is something they should do, they must protect the family, as it were. Long - term illness is indeed difficult, but there is no possibility that the possibility of living on top of the possibility that there can be a way to spare the family. The surgeon general believes it would be a mistake if the Icelanders received a talk on death aid in the General. The Commission reports the discussion on this matter in other countries on the non-controvertial field outside the council and without pressure. At the same time, surgeons say that it would be so much worse if the health minister and the Ministry were to be assigned to carry out this assignment as many of the vital tasks of the medical system await relief. This is shown in his review of the synopsis proposal. Therefore, the surgeon general strongly objects to this proposal. The more important it is for a patient to be informed about his/her rights by the specialists in charity treatment, before it is discussed with the national order of eutrophication of eutrophication of eutrophication. Patients often do not realize that they have unlimited right to refuse medical treatment. Indign euthanasia, i.e. when people refuse treatment and thus speed up the moment of death, they are allowed here. The right to reject and discontinue palliative treatment is set to 8. patient rights, No. 94/1997. In 1st. 24th par. The same law says, with President's permission: A dying patient has the right to die with dignity. If a terminally ill patient is unmistakably suggesting that he does not wish for treatment that prolongs his life or that attempts to resuscitation should be respected by the physician. On the other hand, it has been observed by the mercy and nurse that within the present legislation framework, life-free therapy can be improved. Patients may wish not to be resuscitated if they die naturally and are able to request no nutrition support. They also point out the need for an euthanasia in nursing homes, which eases the suffering of patients with drugs but does not prolong or shorten their life. Therefore, it can be seen that professionals object to this recommendation and are encouraged to improve patient information supply in terms of their rights and to improve palliative treatment. G. Snædal, a specialist in aging medicine and the former chairman of the ethic of medicine, does not generally favor the death aid of doctors, and has recently adopted the ethics of the Norwegian Medical Association as an object of euthanasia. The doctor who is responsible for caring for the life and health of people would be given a very peculiar role if they were to take life. Jón G. Snædal explains the uncertainty of the key reasons against allowing charity. In medicine, there is always uncertainty about diagnosis and treatment. Thus, if euthanasia was legalized, there might be questionable cases. He then says that often a state of uncertainty about the weak one's ability to express his will. Even if a high degree of counseling and evaluation were to be carried out, it would never be possible to ensure that depression or any other condition that could be treated has determined its choice to request death support. Björn Einarsson, a gerontologist and philosopher, put it this way in his article on death aid in the 2016 medical journal, by permission of presidents: ▪ A person who takes his own life has no right to be helped, for such obligation cannot be made to anyone. If it violates his conscience, it cannot be demanded of a doctor or another healthcare professional to perform euthanasia. Respect for human life, humanity, and privacy is against the nature of the medical profession and the oath. In addition, the high emphasis on developing and improving palliative treatment may become weaker if other options are legalized. A lack of psychological assistance has also been shown to those who are dying. Mr. President. I'm going to finish my speech - I see that time is up - in the next round and wish to be put on the rosary again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u98	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a council agreement on sensitive issues. This is not the first time that the case has come to the attention of the Generals. I am one of the carriers of this proposal, which runs in its core only, that the Council of Health deems to put together the information on death support and the development of a law code on which it is allowed, as well as frequency, reasons and conditions, and so on. The proposal is not at all taken as to whether it is desirable for the death aid to be granted; I think it is very important to keep that in mind; rather, its purpose is primarily to promote a good and balanced discussion of these matters. It is not in itself an omen, nor a promise of change, nor that we change this matter, but only a careful review of this matter and a summary of information. Then, what happens next is a completely independent matter and does not directly fit in with the Parliament's arrangement. The other is so different that many of us may have had a chance. there is a general opinion on whether to allow the death aid, but there is no discussion at least not within the council wall, until it is presented with a bill. However, it is probably only a matter of material assistance, since there seems to be some confusion as to what the cause of death is all about. This does not involve death support, e.g. if I or some person think of saying, "Well, now I'm tired of this life, and now I'm gonna die, and now it's a doctor's duty to help me do it. The issue is not about this. Rather, it is in the countries that have adopted the death support that has been highly restricted by the timing of death relief. It is very important that such assistance is placed under strict limits in order to prevent a state of state of mind at a certain time in order for a person to decide to make this momentous decision and/or, as mentioned here, to feel that there is pressure somewhere between binding or ending his life. When people discuss these matters, they look to the Netherlands. This is where death aid is provided. I'll name them. First, the patient must seek medical attention and ask for such help. The doctor must be fully convinced that the patient's wish is voluntary, self - oriented, and well - thought - out. In addition, the doctor should be convinced that the patient's suffering is ongoing, in other words, that it is not possible to treat or reduce the pain and that suffering is unbearable. These are very strict and decisive conditions. The physician then needs to inform the patient about his condition and the possibility of the condition and the possibility of a post-meditation event or the reduction of suffering and thus making his life bearable. It must also be confirmed that the patient is convinced that there are no other reasonable options. Then two doctors are needed to review the case, i.e. The first assessment by your doctor will be re-evaluated by another doctor. Hence, we are not talking about people who are long - suffering or who are severely disabled, but we ourselves are not plagued by unbearable pain, even if our life is not the best way to choose. This is not reason enough, but suffering must be unbearable, since there is no cure or relief in sight. That's the first thing anyone can do to help with death. It also mentions that, of course, there may be situations in which people do not sense or are not able to measure their condition. It has often been called cerebral patients or alzheimer patients, who may be so far led by their disease that they do not have the means to do so. It is obvious that a patient or an individual in such circumstances does not meet the criteria for death support or that he can ask for it, that the request is voluntary. - Yeah, maybe that's how you put it, but I don't think it's well planned. That is why it is very important, and the Dutch system puts a lot of emphasis on discussing it sooner than later with their doctors, or their doctor, if they are interested in such treatments and under what circumstances that might have gone. I'll allow me to bring up a matter in this context, although it's a case that's only a matter of injury to others, i.e. the bill that has been submitted at the council on premeditated decision-making when people are in such a position that they have been removed from control or are not fully in control of their affairs, that they are very important before this condition, e.g. if you have been diagnosed with alzheimer or by any other cause, or you are suffering from a medical condition that may compromise your judgment, that the patient or the prospective patient may be able to recommend it before any particular situation might arise. I think it's very important that we keep that in mind. But first and foremost, and that is the point of this suggestion, it is important that we carefully review it, i.e. that we can get the health minister and the Ministry to work out detailed information on how this is being conducted where it has been permitted and has been practiced, what experience there is, and what the rules are on these matters. Then, on this basis, a discussion of the moral subject can be made whether an individual can wish for it and decide to die and be helped by it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u99	Madam President. I'm going to cut the same knee as that of a dog. paritaprevir At the beginning of his fine speech earlier, Jón Valdimarsson, a reminder of what this very matter is all about. It's not about allowing the death aid, it's about taking on the job to gather the information on death support and the development of a law code on which it is authorized. We may feel that this is some kind of mystery preparation for a law bill, like that. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children came in. But even to those who feel that way, if that is true, we should be more concerned about getting information and doing it well. But this is a delicate matter, Mr. President. I'm just gonna be honest here and say that when I listened to what I said. paritaprevir Birgir's servants Þórarinsson their speech, so I asked to respond, for I felt that I could resist something or do something. Then I thought, " This isn't that kind of thing. ' I deeply respect the opinions presented in this issue. Senator. He reached me over many things, and we disagree about things, but I have a deep respect for the opinions presented there. But I would like to reiterate the purpose of this proposal. He is, as stated very clearly in this brief proposal for interpretation, to hide the health - care minister from bringing together the information on death support and the development of a legal frame on which it is permitted, as well as other information. Many things have been introduced in this matter, and we've been getting a little bored with discussing our general dying position, and good if we haven't done it before when we've discussed these matters. That's good and good. It's fine for us to talk about it. I'm sure there are many of us who have a different view of this. I think that I have a different attitude than some of my importers in this matter. I'm very open when this comes. I listened when the law on the rights of patients said: "A dying patient has the right to die with dignity. I'm almost willing to just put in the word "special" in there instead of the patient. It's my personal opinion, and I'm not going to go deep into it, which makes me feel that it's a complete side effect on what I think of the death relief is really going on. I know, however, that this is a debate that is growing more and more in the community. That is why I find myself very respectable and truly extremely professional. That makes me disagree, for example. A surgeon, who was led to his review that this discussion was not to be held in this room. I don't agree with that. She might not be at home in this room if there's a bad bill for allowing death support in the fall, and here we speak of individual rights and rights, of free choice rights, etc. Fortunately, we are not there. We're talking about bringing up all the information, learning from other people's experiences, taking a look at how these have been done in other countries, and compiling a report. What we do to that report, I don't know. I don't know what that report will look like or what it'll turn out. I have not been deeply involved in any of the experiences in countries where this has been permitted. I really hope this is going to be accepted so we can pursue the professional practices and get that information. There are also other factors that have been published. Hv. paritaprevir For Steinunn, the Þóra Árnadóttir brought in a very urgent and practical suggestion that perhaps it would require an expansion of the way this is viewed, taking reasons that are presented under the welfare system, not just by the health system. I like it. Let us examine this from as many sides as possible. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children entered a rainbow of opinions and attitudes from where we came from. These are important issues from religious morality to employees' rights, which were a pleasure to hear that they were drawn here. All things must be considered and respected when discussing these matters. And speaking of staff rights, Mr President, it seems to me that there's a key element in this case. I am pleased to have a medical poll on death - care care care, whether it is ready to accept such a wish to meet conditions. But it is key that wherever this is allowed, in the world or here, if it ever is, it will never be passed on the staff's rights to do this if so. My desire to die with dignity must not be passed on to the rights of another who does not have the power to assist a person to say good - bye to this world. It must be in my mind to ensure that when and if some kind of discussion begins, this will become a reality. But this is a delicate matter and it's good to have it discussed here. It is good that we discuss it without enthusiasm, and it is good that we are suggesting that we take up all the information on the subject. We appreciate the experience of others, speak to our health care providers. I would think this work would be the basis for a much wider conversation in the community. While there is a direct connection between this matter with health care professionals, it is still a matter that affects all of us. This is not some private profession. President. Therefore, I support this suggestion, which should not surprise anyone, since I am one of her transporters. In fact, I think of how this is going to work, and we should do it more often, simply allow us to discuss matters that are highly regarded in the community or to gather up information about them calmly and evaluate them, based on that information, and in reality not just sharing in a discussion of the recent death - related community, but promoting it. We are the nation's seminar, and we say on Christmas Day about ourselves in this room. I'm excited that we're going to take a seminar out among the people, and we're going to file a report called on this important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u100	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for putting this case on the schedule. After listening to the discussion here today, you wonder whether setting it on the program is not opening the discussion. There are probably a lot of people out in our town and in our community who fear that by setting the matter on the schedule, they will have to decide, and perhaps at some future time, this could be possible. I think there's a voice of people against the death aid that thinks it's taking a real risk in that direction by opening up the discussion. I agree with what it says here, that the basis for the discussion to develop and be objective is to have information on the status of these issues and the position of health care professionals. I just want to introduce to you the tests or tests that have been conducted on the health care professionals'opinions on this subject and are discussed in the report. In 1997 the first survey quoted was conducted, where a small percentage of doctors and nurses were considered euthanasia justified, and only 2% of respondents were able to achieve such a wish. 13 years later, a comparable survey has been made, the percentage has increased among both doctors and nurses who believe euthanasia can be justified, 18% of physicians and 20% nurses. I think it tells a bit of a story that the percentage of people who would want to do the wish is only 3%. You imagine, and you've also taken this discussion as a health - care worker and a lot of palliative treatment, that people are often positive to the possibility that this might be possible, but when it comes to who's going to take a stand, who's willing to treat it, there's fewer people there. I also think that the conversation that is being pushed back, the third time, can affect the treatment we give today. Whatever the outcome may be, it is a matter of taking all of this together, which is made clear that there are frequencies, reasons, and so forth, since it is really not a matter of sorting out the reasons, but of setting up all the reasons behind them in the countries where this has been done. This can make us think about how we are doing things today. It was shown in the case of a senator earlier today about the palliative treatment that we give today that it has to be able to develop, the system around it may not be clear enough. What is palliative treatment? What is full - time treatment, reincarnation, and so forth? Perhaps there are differences between strains, doctors, or other health care professionals in how it is viewed. It is known that we can improve our service to long - suffering, how we record things, and how everyone is aware of what people want. I think this can also affect education, which is a great deal to health care providers, leading people who are dying, through that process, the leader, and how we work with it. The conclusion of this report may not necessarily be determined by the death aid in Iceland or by law changes but may have a widespread impact, e.g. the treatment we give today and of ourselves as individuals, that we take our stand on the matter, that we are only pressured into thinking. Some will not want it, and they want to put it aside. There's nothing wrong with it. There's no pressure on it. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. Brjánsson of Grensch for his speech, this is what I would have wanted to say, there were so many good things that came out there. I strongly encourage people to read it or to watch it, because there are so many things in this, many things that need to be thought into, and he was a master of it. I'm positive about this job, and I think it'll just be good to get this information. This is the third time that this synoptic proposal is proposed and hopefully it will be done so that such information can be summed up as a basis for further discussion and allowing these ideas to develop and develop and be sure to improve the services we perform in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u101	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a synopsis proposal that's not to be made for the first time in the council, i.e. Congress proposal for death support. To illustrate this point, I pointed to a talk I delivered on this occasion last time, which is brilliant. [[Up front.]] I may read a selected chapter of it below, with president's permission, but I don't know, actually. Of course, it is important that we as a community take this discussion. How important it is that we get up on the table all the speculations that can be presented, take into consideration viewpoints, consider the viewpoints of others, and consider how others are doing this and what other topics have been discussed! In this regard, the suggestion of transporters is brilliant. It is balanced and does not predetermine any conclusion. She wants, at least as I understand her, truly, searching for some kind of thing,--what shall we call it? - It's okay to work out before we start making some decisions. That's a very good way. As I told you last year, when we discussed this, I've been wondering if there's a difference between the discussion and what the system of health care is doing where the discussion has taken place, i.e. Whether the core of these health systems is a public system, such as in Iceland, which is cost by society, or whether it is a private insurance system or even a system where you may pay most of the cost of your pocket. I think it's something that matters because it would hurt us that we'd be taking some part of the discussion on grounds that might not be appropriate here, if we fell into some kind of bike. Hence, the question of whether it would be good to add as one question to 2nd. The proposal to specifically determine whether there are differences between the discussion and the assembly of health care systems. That's what I think can do to help the discussion a lot. The conference has made progress, as before, the discussion of how this will turn to the healthcare professional itself. Of course it's very important. In modern health care, even if a decision is made on a particular treatment, someone will not see to it alone. Usually there may be one or few people who make the decision. However, there may be many recipients of the procedure and are usually many. Therefore, this too should be considered in this context. Is there a need for some sort of assembly for a certain type of landing in a particular case? Or can just one person say, "It's like this - and all the other team members will just have to follow along?" The ability of team members to have different opinions, etc.? These are all things that are very important to consider, for as we have seen, it may be totally contrary to the outlook of some health - care providers, and there is no doubt that many will be involved in what is called death support. I'd like to allow me to doubt that there are many healthcare professionals who have never participated in palliative treatment. The focus may be the second, where the focus is like it. These are important questions. The bill's report includes the tests carried out by healthcare professionals on attitudes and other matters. If you were asked in such tests, could you consider sharing in the help of death? verse 6: How do you feel about euthanasia? How do you feel about what's in English called subsisted (U.S.)? "by permission of the President. There may be conflicting ideas. We need to accept it and respect it that it is just like that, while rather using it as an opportunity to deepen our discussion and to try to grasp the feelings and opinions behind us rather than jump into a bullet or some surface, let's say, automatically leading to what we had already concluded. I think the suggestion is very good, and I'm glad it comes back to you. The welfare committee. I'll have the views I've traced within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u102	Mr. President. In my first speech, I entered a master's project or a study conducted last year. It's Arnar Viðar Arnarsson of Legalism that made that fine investigation, it's very informative. It shows that the most common argument against the legal cause of death is fear, i.e. that if we legalize death aid with patients who want to die soon, there will be situations where doctors will help people who, in fact, do not have the desire to die, and when exceptions from the protection of life are legalized, sensitive groups are at risk as we know. It is a fact in Iceland that more and more fetuses are eliminated by Down syndrome, which must be considered a virtual reflection of disability. They are prejudiced by the fact that individuals with such disability need much care and will not be able to support themselves. This shows how things that may have seemed normal in society today may have felt terrible in the past. Fear of economic impacts on the implementation of death support can be found, e.g. correspondent in the United States Its critics have noted that there is reason to fear that death will be legalized, like other medical personnel in that country, it will be subject to economic discrimination and prejudice. Critics in the Netherlands pointed out the inevitable consequence of legal action that people who were simply tired of life or suffered because of incidents not hearing medical science would sooner or later be able to get medical help to die. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé gave a fine talk earlier and came in. In that case, we would need to learn from the experience of others. That is why he would even be. with a importer on this proposal. In this context, let us look at Belgium, where the terms of the death aid of the law are interpreted in favor of those seeking help. By allowing more than an interpretation of the term 'observation' of the death aid Act, the elderly seeking help to die, on the basis of factors such as worsening quality of life, social isolation, etc., increase considerably each year from nine cases in 2014 to 16 cases of death in 2010 and then suddenly up to 209 cases in 2015, with elderly looking for help to die each year. This is an experience from a country where death aid has been legalized. In Iceland, patients are presented with indirect death support and palliative treatment. Both options are recognized in most countries. In spite of efforts to make regular control of the limitations of death, statistics from Belgium, the Netherlands, and Switzerland show that there has been no way to prevent abuse. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Jón Valdimarsson said that there would be a great restriction. It has to be said, as it is, that the experience of the nations mentioned here is that no means of resisting abuse have been found in spite of widespread abuse. This is a reality we must not overlook. These are facts based on experience in countries that have legalized death support. This information needs not be made by my judicial hearing. They are available to all. The synopsis suggests that discussion is needed. For whom is it necessary? Is it necessary because the company called a life respect, a death - care organization, would like that discussion? I'm asking. Finally, I'd like to agree with a surgeon who has said that there are many other vital tasks to be met by the medical system but with the eulogy and the proposed procedure to be considered. [[The president calls.]] The surgeon general strongly objects to this proposal. I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u103	V.E.G. President. This proposal is a sensitive subject. We know that. I'm not a very positive man, but I look at the suggestion quite positively. Of course, she is modest. It's about taking up what needs to be discussed. I don't see anything wrong with that. I think it is very important that this discussion be taken, that we see how it is elsewhere, how the discussion is given elsewhere, whether in countries where it is permitted or in countries where this is not permitted. I have a somewhat similar discussion now and was at the time around the patient's rights bill, the patient's right to decide whether to accept medical help or not in cases where medical assistance or assistance could save the person's life, or was necessary for the person to live and even a happy life thereafter. This right to refuse a service could, of course, lead to death. In itself, these are nothing like ethical, legal, or perhaps religious issues that we are discussing here. It must not have been easy for many health care professionals or doctors to say: I don't want this treatment. I don't want a blood transfusion, to form. The person then loses consciousness, and the doctor knows that he can easily save the person's life but will not. This is not easy for the doctor. These people value the true freedom of people to make decisions about their own lives and their own death. Still, it is difficult to do so, even if I am basically concerned that people should decide whether they live or die. It doesn't have to be sick because of me. That I can control it. But my freedom goes no further than that the freedom of others can be stronger in this, i.e. I have no right to have someone else to put an end to my life. My freedom isn't that much. But I think it's important, this freedom to make decisions about life and death. Of course, the nature of the rule around it is of vital importance. Very important. If humans are on the other hand, they need to be careful to allow the help of the dead, the condition that needs to be met, and so on. I noticed in a talk a lot. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, said that his concern was about whether the person could be trusted to make such decisions. I don't think we in general should be deciding who can be trusted in it unless there are obvious spiritual routines to make such decisions. Of course, self - righteous and mature people should be able to make those decisions, even if they seem unreasonable or unreasonable. My opinion is, basically, that such decisions should be simply allowed to be made by a filled set of conditions. I realize that there are a number of ways in which people look at this, and most of all, this is a moral subject in the mind of many people, even though it is not so in my mind. I know that we will later link this discussion with people who have various diseases. We can say that the disease and its nature may be the type of person who makes decisions in this regard that would never happen in the absence of the disease. That, of course, is a specific problem that we are dealing with. But then, of course, we have large groups with no quality of life but with no palliative treatment in themselves. They're not dying. It is not just a matter of waiting for death, to shorten that wait, but it is possible that people might even live long but have no quality of life, life is a burden. Why is such a person not allowed to make such a decision? Can we always say that he is not in a position to make such decisions because of something? It's all considered. But this suggestion is now not more bold than it is, so we go over it with an open mind, in which cases this might apply, what rules might apply, and even above, whether this should not be allowed under any circumstances. I'm not there. I'm in the same place as I was discussing, then a young lawyer, when the Patient Rights Act was passed on the bill. I remember that discussion. Many people were very opposed to making decisions about rejecting medical treatment, a decision that could result in their death. I think this discussion will be the same in many ways. Yet, this may be just a more difficult subject because it takes a fishy operation to do something, not an act of activity, as it may be about failing to perform a particular medical service. It takes a ceremony to end people's lives. To me, there is no huge difference between the inactivity and the action in the matter of ending people's lives. It's always just about who's willing. Is he real, i.e. is he qualified to make such a decision? Is he perfect? Spiritual health? Is this done voluntarily, as the will says? To make such a decision? That's the key in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u104	A respectable president. I want to thank everyone. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. I think she's been materialistic, kind and balanced. I think it's very important when we discuss this matter. It sounds to me that most of the people here have been willing to support the Senate resolution as such. It has been difficult to determine whether or not it should take over even more broader factors such as the assembly of the health system or its type, and then I want to add its quality. Hv. paritaprevir In lands where death aid has been permitted, a Steinunn named Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir considered the welfare carts. I think there's good reason to be. The welfare committee will sit over it and see if she can see that it can be dealt with as well as in the synonym. However, I would like to direct them to the point of my suggestion or point of view. The welfare committee not to go too far, so that the matter will be too complicated and extensive to be able to take some step, and I will again remind them that we are just talking about a report. There may be several kinds of data. There are a variety of data, such as regarding a combination of health systems, which may make it easier for the Ministry of Health to provide them with the report and thus give us a more advanced picture. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's second discourse specifically addressed evolution and concluded that there was no need to sum this up, since each person could really study that information. However, this is especially so because when these topics have been discussed to form in the pages of the magazine articles in people's publications, such data and developments are noted in countries that have been taught. For example, evolution is a natural disorder. A senator did not point in line with the experience I have received. That is why it is addressed, and I would also like to see the report on the development of events in the countries that provide assistance to the dead. I think it's very important. It is also very important to put this into context with the social status of people, the structure of social and welfare systems in those countries. I'll agree with that. I also appreciate that those who have strong opinions on the subject and who disagree with the death aid do not want to open the discussion. Of course, putting the pot on top is only more comfortable and does not discuss it anymore. Many of the comments that were received in the past were just that way. On the other hand, I have felt that it is important to open up the discussion and discuss the matter carefully. Many people may read my words in this matter and that I choose to present the synonym, that therefore I am in favor of death. I can accept that. I'm in favor of death support in a very specific and clear frame. But so that I could make up my mind about what that frame should be like and how we should apply it, I want to build it on the experiences of other countries because of how evolution has been there. I also want to make clear that in my mind the evidence we're calling for is a fall in order for people to form an opinion or even change one's mind in both ways. I repeat again and again what is said in the synonym: This is not intended at all to responsibly set a plagion that he should have a view of whether or not the right to authorize death aid by law. However, because these data are available, we may be able to sit over them and form an opinion. I think it's so important. The proper staff was mentioned separately, and I would like to mention that as I have studied this Dutch system, so doctors are not required to provide this help. Thus, I added the pact proposal to examine the views of health care professionals. The movers and I agreed on the importance of receiving it. If we were thinking about a so - called Dutch route, it would not work out if there might be only 2◯3% of health care professionals willing to participate in such assistance. Then it tells itself that the case was dead. That's why I think it's very important that this attitude exists; not just because it's much easier to say, "Yes, yes, I'm in favor of death in a very limited frame and under limited rules, but it's just another question to ask if the person is willing to participate in such assistance. Hv. S. The Brjánsson Guðjón's servant introduced just what has only developed in the discussion of how pa·rou·siʹa is being provided today, whether it may simply be that death is being aided today, even though it is not under the merit of that merit. That is why I also agree that it is so important to have a clear frame of law, and I find very interesting that in connection with this discussion, a debate has been made about whether we need to review health laws and services performed, which, in the case of pa·rou·siʹa, need to be performed. Does it vary according to the physician or specialist, as mentioned in the talk? Or does everyone know what is meant by that assistance, and is it uniform? Is there in some cases even staff against a wall today asking for a dose that the person knows can lead to death without allowing it to be legalized today? I don't know if it is, but I'm sure it's important to get these data. As a result, people decide whether it is right to proceed in some way or not. I thank you again very well, objectively and objectively, and very well discussed today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u105	Mr. President. I explain a bill to a song called the long name: The bill to correct a change in income tax law, No. 90/2003, with subsequent changes (carbon balance extracts). Besides me, the couriers are Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Helgi Hrafn Thorsson, O.K. Gunnarsson's son, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, so it's a rather crosspolent case, as it were. So there's no difference how the bill reads on the 1st and the main paragraph, it's simply as follows: ▪ At 31. The law adds up to a new number, as follows: carbon balance productions, but not more than 0.85% of revenues per B team 7th english - I come to it afterwards - - - -- in the year the contributions are made. This refers to operations for carbon balance as well as forest development funding, healing work, and recovery of wetlands. In addition to funding, self-employment institutions and organizations that work on carbon balance, practical projects that are being treated by companies in cooperation with funds, private institutions, and organizations, and do not pay for them. In addition, the cost of implementation, such as food and transportation, is considered for volunteers working in a company for carbon balance. The minister must establish further regulations regarding the procedure of the procedure. So to add, it's in 2 gr. this bill, that the law will go into effect next year on January 1, 2020, and thereby implement the income year of 2019. So I'd like to put this bill in context, with the permission of the President, a few paragraphs out of the report. It is as follows: The government has set progressive goals on climate. The first step will be taken by agreeing with the Paris Convention's commitment to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The second step is to reach the position of becoming a non-carbon community by 2040. Neither aim will be achieved without active cooperation between government, rural society, employment, and public. The action taken in the Karinhn Katrín of Jakobsdóttir is an increase in carbon binding. It has one of the greatest reductions in forest development and inflation of deforestation and ill - treated vegetation. It has been found that the expected recovery of wetlands and not new is also an effective procedure to bind greenhouse gases. The review of the Action Programme is under way and set out a defined goal as each year's budget is considered to be well over. It was from the report. As I say, it puts the case in an objective frame. At the same time, the news is quite joyous and positive, with a view to a healthy person and to the situation in today's climate. She's not good. For example, over the past four years, I am the most warmest on a global scale since the start of the measurements. So I'll take a view of a distant continent, i.e. Asia, as well as the neighborhood of Himalaya, is thought to be successful in maintaining global warming less than 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit [1.5 ° C.] on certain standards, there will be a loss of 30%. Here on the land, the prospects are similar. And as has been stated so many times, there will be no glaciers in this area after 1,150,200 years, which will continue to be observed, even though it will be no more than this. When it comes to us in Iceland, we can handle it. It must be added to the resistance and better prepared for the reaction because even if we are to succeed in keeping the warming below 1.5 points in increase, even 2 points, we will need to swallow it for decades. Hence, it is very positive to see that the government has decided to appoint a climate Council that is supposed to be counselled and to hold various threads. In fact, I think we need to take further steps this way and have fixed positions here, or a fixed office that plays this role along with the climate council. Governments have taken very firm steps. They've established a review plan. They have increased funding for these objects and have earned more money, e.g. by raising green taxes, raising carbon charges, because, after all, the reactions I'm about to address will cost us enormous amounts and the world too, so there is no escape from the need to strike into the collection pool and increase the tax on all the communities in the world, however they are now. I also point out that the government plans to set up a climate fund, which, of course, is new, and it really matters in this regard. We have heard of a kind of national fund that could deal with serious tragedies as well as others. Of course, these events include events, not caused by volcanic eruptions or earthquakes, but either because of unexpected events in the weather or by the oceans or by such things. Energy policy is also being developed, promoting faster energy exchanges, and it is also a very positive step. Various measures are being taken to reduce emissions. It affects land transport, both by increasing the contribution of transport electricity, but other methods are like producing foreign fuels that can be used to reduce transport emissions. This is true of fishing, fishing, and automobiles, even freight ships, and so on. More important, the goal of changing the proportion of transport between the sea and the land is to be taken as these energy exchanges move forward. We need to look to the flight as well. There is a change. Now new power sources are performing on aeroplane. I've heard of the first nine people who are being powered by the aircraft they're developing in Norway for passenger flights. We look at public transport, which, of course, is one of the important factors in reducing transport emissions. I'd like to mention, in addition to the construction industry. It is an old thumb rule that one ton of concrete produced, took its place, and began to clot, releasing one ton of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas. So it is very important to change the standards of the construction industry so that trees and other useful structural services will be used to a great extent. Energy - high industry is also in the picture. It is in my opinion whether or not the energy - consuming industry needs to bind emissions, I mean mainly the greenhouse gas itself, i.e. carbon dioxide, e.g. from a plant called silica. It is, of course, known that the reduction of these chemicals from heat plants has been very successful. True, it takes money, but as I said earlier, there is no way to escape when it comes to paying for a decrease in temperature. Some innovations are also being developed for e.g. Aluminium, new coalicide, which makes it much less carbon dioxide emissions from such a major industry. All of this must be considered when we think about the future. There's a lot of opportunities so in binding myself, so I'll come to her, too. We have increased contributions to forestry. In my opinion, they would have to be considerably higher than they are. There are both the Icelandic forests, birchs, and such, but also what I have called the product forests, I don't want to call them crops because the crops are so many, but the forests that are going into direct timber production. These days they're 40 miles2 in the whole country. It's a stain that's five times 10 miles wide. It is believed that a forest, an old enough forest, would be needed to make nearly enough of ourselves to produce timber or timber. You can envision a 20 - mile [20 km] spot that has been scattered far and wide throughout the country. The forestry wouldn't include much of the country. When it comes to land healing, it is not only a damaged land that needs to be restored because it releases carbon dioxide but also the growth of wastes where appropriate. There are tremendous opportunities in these two. When it comes to wetlands - although we have not considered very carefully the eight types of swamps that exist in Iceland, especially when they were advanced, how the age of the alimony enters, we know from a foreign measure that recovery of wetlands is an effective and inexpensive procedure to bind carbon. I'd also like to point out innovations in this relationship that we need to look at, and I call innovations because we haven't seen much of it, because of the import of food. It is so important, then, whether food is a household or an imported bear when it comes to the release of carbon dioxide on a global scale. We should not follow the boat of others there and watch the import of the food for this purpose, not merely whether the food is cheap or not cheap, or healthy, but exactly where it comes from at any given time. Another thing I'd like to point out is that there's permafrost in Iceland, there's one kind of swamp of the eight I mentioned. Everybody knows what permafrost is. There's an ice layer in the soil that doesn't thaw during the summer. A permafrost in Iceland exists in places such as Threstur, near the Kringil winters, where permafrost is the classic landscape of permafrost. But permafrost is also on the mountains, for example. permafrost down on Esju. When a permafrost thaws over, it always thaws only during the summer, but if it starts to thaw fully and irreversibly down the track, we'll be free to evaluate it. And everybody knows, or at least has entered the discussion, evaluating the very undesirable greenhouse gas. It must be considered, not only to know where the permafrost is in the country but also to practice where the levels needed to monitor it. This also plays a major role in the emissions of organic waste. Everyone knows that village produces metals in cars made from such wastes, but now it can be obtained by both going to the geological stations and assessments, such as the new stations of the village, and also by producing the estimate of carbon dioxide from heat plants, such as Hellishrading, to use in cars. All of this is part of a measure of carbon binding. And even in the case of evaluation of ruminants, a new creation project is that supplementary supplements given to ruminants can significantly reduce this emissions. I'm calling it all here because it's just a little step of a lot of people we have to take. When it comes to part of a community, it's like that one country society after another is working out environmental programmes, and so are climate plans. I can mention, for example, that the Union in the South has taken an interest in the rural communities under which they live and put on a highly ambitious environmental program. All of this is of utmost importance, and some rural communities, such as Reykjavíkurburg itself, are a party to what is called the Paris Convention - not the Paris Convention but the Paris Convention - which is the international agreement of rural society or of urban society and large companies worldwide. This is all very important because it is not that governments and the government alone provide enough powder for the fight against climate warming but that their rural communities must come into it. The third party, of course, is the companies. A fourth party is ourselves. When it comes to some aspect of an enterprise, even some form of inference can be considered in the case of carbon tax, say eutrophication, that a part of it could go to carbon equations. But the bill here is looking at the income tax. In this way companies are involved in the resistance to the warming of the climate. I'm gonna grab that report again, with the permission of the President: The proposals can be in the form of a carbon balance between enterprises in cooperation with Kolin, a collaborative agreement on carbon binding, the volunteer work of employees, or financial contributions, i.e. strengthens the organization or institutions working in this field. For example, there are the forestry, the forestry, the land healing, and the Wetland Fund. You can also mention that companies, e.g. in construction or heavy - equipment projects, have shown interest in the recovery of and recovery of wetlands without being paid for them. Their contributions would then be appreciated for their money, i.e. Only costs for travel and food to employees. The contribution of enterprises to carbon balance is not detractable. In accordance with changing climate conditions and the rich wills in the community, therefore, the bill is proposed to a change of 31. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, responsible for the loss of income from a job. It is suggested that direct contributions to carbon binding or carbon balance may be calculated as the deduction cost of job management up to 0.85% of revenues per B team 7. I'll have to read B team 7. I don't want to get out of the way. He reads: ▪ All revenues of employment and internal activity, including pay for selling goods and services, commissions, sectoral pay, sectoral grants, startups, and any income listed in other sections of this article, related to employment or independent activity. - To be clear. In comparison, up to 0.75% of revenues already occur. it is charity. That is, then, in page 2. these songs, so we'll just climb over the charity business and we'll get 0.85 for deduction. The bill suggests that a minister should set up regulations on the implementation of the law, such as whether an accountant, a company or a tax-related organisation should provide established information on these contributions, the sum of the donation, what it involves and what it is, e.g. whether it is a direct donation to the organisation or to institutions, payment for the travel and food of the workers, etc., for the purpose of applying, when and after the events where it is introduced, as well as the confirmation of the recipient's contribution on its receipt and related factors. It should then be provided with further instructions on expositation under the directive, including what information should be provided in the tax ahead, and in more detail the conditions of funds, automation agencies and organisations in order to meet the criteria, as well as the actions of a business worker. Then comes the raisin in the hot dog end: It is essential that deduction projects become both clear and transparent so that they truly achieve their objective and will not result in abuse of the source. It is desirable to feel that the application for deduction will be part of the Agency's carbon balance and emissions programme. I'll read it from the paper. It seems a little rough. The Council is placed in place for the suitability of the Regulation to which this will be carried out. Anyway. The objective is clear with this--I'm going to let myself call this a chicken step; I'm going to let myself call this a little step, cross-cutting little step. The aim is to live up to the Paris meeting, and most certainly the ambitious objective of the government and, hopefully, of all of us, that Iceland will be nothing more than 2040, which is probably the most ambitious of such national goals, I don't know anything like it. Of course, we need to regularly print numbers about how we are doing, how this wind goes, and how honest it is to determine how these two goals will be achieved in countless steps from now on. I'd like to mention in the past that the Arctic Council has agreed that the eight northern countries will speed up their response somewhat by 2030, i.e. This is an incentive for us to give in relation to what we have been planning. It's such a friendly pat on the shoulder from the nations that all depend on the climatic wind and the melting of ice in the north. There have been times when there have been criticism -- well, let's say whether it's the government or just us Icelanders, we can call self - criticism. This is shown by political groups. It's on the Internet. The media shows that we are not doing what is right. There is, of course, a source of criticism. But it's also very serious if you're talking about the steps you're taking, whether it's a plastic government plan or a government climate programme, because in the case of objective criticism, I feel that it's the community duty of those who criticize, I'm not necessarily talking about individuals, but at least If it is a group of members or political groups involved, to offer encouraging suggestions on what might be done better. First of all, we are determined to be objective and to gather together to reach these goals, even if not necessarily at the initiatives of everyone. These are both goals that are essential to the community in Iceland, either the object of the Paris Convention, which has been criticized, or the purpose of a non-carbonitary Iceland, which I have not seen to be criticized. But if we do not have a parapolitic agreement and a parapolitic objective of criticism as tools, we will not achieve these noble objectives. I think I'll let this long transfer of this little bill finish and tell Mr. President I've finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history and foreporting this bill. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I felt that this bill was the nature and the good speech being given here that it was necessary to have a little expression on it. I have to say, I like this way very much. I have just mentioned a talk chair and thought about how we can, in turn, have some kind of appeal for professional life to show more community responsibility. This suggestion focuses on an enormous project, such as an executive who did well and realizes that it will come to us to spend a lot of money if we don't get more results than it looks like the situation today. So I just want to celebrate the fact that this case is here and I hope that we can get a financial and business committee to go over it and get the reviews so that it or something comparable could soon become legal. I cut it as a dog. A senator mentioned that there was an agreement to promote, or whether it was, some sort of motivation. Much now, especially in view of the United States, and it's not like a speaker there gave you reason to be optimistic about the results of the United States of America. However, it is worth the effort to believe that there are others who have spoken in a better way and that there are many in the United States, and especially within the urban population and those who have spoken in a more favorable way, and this gives you a small hope that more effective results will be achieved there. I just wanted to expand the discussion, and there are other projects that are subject to community responsibility. For example, we are talking about at what is happening. The Foreign Affairs Committee on Development, its importance, and how we can in some way attract the job life more into development. The DAC committee has reviewed our development support, what's going well and what's not, and pointed out the weak link that we need to draw the job more into these cases. Environmental issues are also one of the factors in which we know that we will not succeed unless we come to work. It is one thing to stand here and accept laws about the other and this, either passive or burdensome, to change our behavior, but if we are going to achieve the results we need to achieve, we need more partners. In view of the circumstances and environment in which we live today, where there is a great deal of stress in the labour market and a lot of debate about the salary of the company and the rest of the business, there is good reason for us to bring up more discussions about community responsibilities in general. Our neighbors are much further involved. It is recognized, and long - term companies are aware that more factors than just debet and credit and profits need to be considered. These matters need attention. Of course, the environment is one of the main factors in our focus today, understandable, but I think it needs to expand the discussion even more. This motion is well - defined and has to do with the carbon equation, and it is likely appropriate to do so in this way. Of course, it is always a bit fragile when changing the law on income taxes, which, of course, must be very clear. I think it's a good idea for a candidate to do that. If the bill were to be legalized, I'd encourage us to try to look at the whole picture of our intentional and burdensome actions that are subject to social responsibility and see if we could get further into it. But I want to thank you for this bill and its contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u107	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for land recovery and then culture a tube that reads, with the permission of the president: The Council concludes to hide agrienvironmental and marine eco-efficiency, in cooperation with the Environment and Resource Minister, to make proposals for a change in law and/or regulations aimed at setting up an impulse system so that landowners are benefiting from upbuilding land and stopping soil erosions from crops that are not available as food. Minister of Council Council no later than April 1, 2019 The report shows: Soil is a precious resource. It is the foundation of the world's food production and the importance of fighting global warming. Land transplant is one of the priorities of Iceland's climate policy. The climate management programme for 2018-2030 states: ◯ The few countries have as good an opportunity as Iceland's population to reduce land use emissions and promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil. It specifically says that the recovery of wetlands is an important factor in reducing emissions and the binding of carbon from the atmosphere by land healing and forestry. The destruction of vegetation and soil has long been a major environmental problem in Iceland. During the past few years, the Kingdom's land - healing work has been taking decisive steps to promote sublingual work in land healing and vegetation protection and to transport projects from land healing back to the provinces. An example of this is the cooperation of Farmers'project to heal the land. The project began in 1990, and its subjects number some 600. The project is designed to strengthen farmers and landowners throughout the country for land healing, stop erosions, and improve future sustainable use. In many places, good results have been achieved. Many participants have improved their lands, transformed the land into a suitable pasture land, and thus increased its usefulness. In terms of continuing to work progressively toward land recovery, there is very little more to it than a globally productive agricultural country. The land of development is limited, so it is important to find ways to preserve it for the future. In this regard it is important to create positive incentives for maintaining the culture that otherwise went uninvented with a precious valuable person and the reduced potential for future production. It is also important for farmers to use hay fever for their project and thus to contribute to the reasonable use of organic materials, rather than decay on their farms. Sheep farmers have shown great interest in land healing and carbon binding. An example of this is the ambitious plan of the Landsam of Sheep, published in October 2017. The year 2027 C.E., says that in the United States, a new "sign " of land transplants, forestry, and recovery of wetlands will be used. The purpose of the project is three aspects: ▪ First, it can help with the marketing of the products that are unpreserved in carbon fractions. Second, farmers want to show community responsibilities in the amount of carbon balance of sheep's flocks. Third, this is a way to create a more varied job opportunities in the country and better business. What an ambitious plan that is worth showing respect! Nationalisation and recruitment are consistent with the aims of a policy based strategy for 2018-2024. This includes emphasis. Applying sustainable development and a wide range of job opportunities across the country and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by working to restore wetlands and soil binding. Transporters, in addition to me, the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdótir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and Britti Haraldsdóttir, believe that it is important to trust the motivation that farmers are in their country and to develop positive incentives to maintain a healthy culture in the field. Count transporters to this purpose properly that the Ministers of the agricultural and environmental sectors will find out what changes are necessary to make in order to strengthen the above incentives and, in turn, make a suggestion to change with this objective. It is normal that the project will be carried out in cooperation with the State's land healings as a map of which territory is most suitable for such land healing. The review of the Convention concluded that proposals should be submitted no later than April 1, 2018, but I feel that it will turn into a development by the Committee. V.E.G. President. A policy of land healing of the EU since the beginning of agriculture and destruction of soil is reported to have been more than half of the productive land since man's greatest threat to land has begun. Our soil is one of our most important resources, and without it, our land would be uninhabitable. Soil is a resource that needs to be nurtured. He is our most important resource, and without it we would be in distress and even uninhabitable. During the past few centuries, a large part of this vital resource has been lost. A number of factors play into it, including fire functions and other natural disasters, as well as man's livestock in the cold weather. This has disturbed ecosystems and has made its face on our land. The Kingdom's land - healing activities play an important role in protecting vegetation and soil and improving land quality. Farming works by law on land healing No. 17/1965, and land-reflecting laws. 91/2002, united in law No. 155/2018. Her role is even. to help promote vegetation and thus increase the country's resistance to destruction. Icelanders are standing in the field of land healing, and much success has been achieved in restoring land quality. Yet, there are still areas in the country that have severe soil erosions. It's a big challenge. Governments can with their policy agendas. It must be complete, forward - looking, based on professional reasoning. It also needs to be guided by sustainability, for we need to consider future generations. Over the years, farmers have contributed much to improving land quality. The great knowledge and experience that have been accumulated over the years have been useful in coping with this assignment. Achieving the state's field of land healing from 2008-2020 is including discussed how to protect and promote ecosystems and prevent deforestation and break down of soil that threatens nature and other valuables. Farming is an important factor in counteracting the rising levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. There are great opportunities to bind carbon in the soil. In a climate - related operation program covering the years 20181⁄2030, one aim is to improve the carbon binding process. By permission of the President, I quote it: In the years to come, contributions to this work will be greatly increased. The plan will be set up for the implementation of this action. A high priority will be to stop deforestation and reduce emissions from vegetation and soil, including water emissions. won special policies and implementation programmes for the recovery of birch forests and beyond. Operational areas will be based on landscapes and regions for carbon binding will be prioritised, including So that a land of decay that releases carbon gets priority. So the emphasis will be placed on protecting and preserving organic soil where it is present. Organic substances such as meat, eyra, or molta will remain behind prisoners in the project instead of the exported products. Strong farming is the key to this work. As we have seen, farmers throughout history have helped to improve land quality. Farmers are citizens of the country. The construction project is the cooperation of farmers and land - healing projects, as mentioned earlier, of domestic recovery. This was formally launched in 1994. One of the main objectives of the project is domesticisation, and the conditions for participation in the project are that in the country there are low or unhealed areas, with moderate stress. - This is taken up from a report from the 2017 report. - Farming takes care of professional counseling and monitoring of the project. The Kingdom's land - healing work strengthens about 85% of the price of breeding and provides seeds if necessary. The annual report of the project Farmers is also published by 2017, with the permission of a president: Since its beginning, BGL has been one of the most important projects in land healing and has proved its true value. Throughout the project, a number of harvested or ill - treated lands have been transformed into vegetation, soil erosion has been stopped, as well as the basis for the strong and close cooperation of land - healing work with farmers and other landowners throughout the country. The project has improved the understanding of land use and land healing and has also been greatly improved by the well - knowledge source of land healing. V.E.G. President. Soil is the basis for all food production on the earth's dry land. Positive incentives need to be in place and order so that they do not interfere with evolution in these matters. In the 10th. Regulations 1118/2017 on general agricultural support specifically require that donations be set aside for crops harvested for feeding. This could be changed to the point where land crops could also be paid for land healing. This is one way to provide positive incentive for farmers whose land - healing skills. True, farmers and landowners have used marsh and hay on molasses and even large areas of land. This has proved to be effective, and I have seen tremendous success. In many parts of the country, sand and digestion are scarce, and in some cases there is a lack of vegetation as a result of unfavourable vegetation, e.g. due to high altitudes above sea, sanding and/or weather conditions. In other cases, land has once healed. There are many ways to speed up the return of vegetation. While the non-unioned sand and digestion are lacking organic matter, organic matter increases soil's water supply and its ability to store nutrients. What moved me to put this matter into practice, but the fact that many countries are running wild. The grown grain is valuable, and it has a lot of work and investments that humans have invested in. If these valuable courtyards are to be wasted, and we are tossing on, or even closing, prospects for future farming and food production. We're selling our country as a tourist country. We want people all over the country. We want people all over the country. We want people all over the country. It is not attractive or attractive to see a tuna that is going into the field. It's stuck in the eyes, and the size of the countryside isn't good. But fighting takes a lot, and it takes a lot to get the hay off the cows. Men, as I noted earlier, have been spreading swamps and hay into their environment. But if we found that this will be part of land healing, farmers and landowners can get support in this, of course, under the guidance and control of land healing, where knowledge is the most important thing and where it would produce the best results, I think we'd be hitting quite a lot of flies in one blow. We're protecting valuables. We're thinking business. We're thinking settlements. We're thinking about the environment. We're tickling into all of these boxes when it comes to that, and it's very cooperative, natural, because we're forwarders and other good associates are on it. But I think it's a unique facility, because I have the firm belief that the future is a time for greater emphasis on food production. We're supposed to take advantage of our land and riches. We have pure nature, pure land. We have clean livestock that we're supposed to grow and grow. If we have the ability to defend the riches we have in the fields, we are keeping open the possibilities for our descendants into the future and for those who follow us to take those steps, thus increasing food security and food production, which I think will give us an ever greater place to the future. That's where our strength is from the Icelanders. We are fortunate to be allowed to live in this country with all these opportunities. But we must not let things drop down, either by threatening our livestock stock by importing raw meat or raw food, or by letting the land drop and disrespect for the work our forefathers have done in building and operating. V.E.G. President. Finally, I would like to suggest that the case be referred to an environment and transport committee and I hope that there will be successful progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u108	A respectable president. In view of a discussion that has developed over the years, I don't really know if I'm supposed to live here, but I'm going to do it anyway. Thank you. A senator for the history and for presenting this synonym, which well means I am a co-smooth. I agree with myself so much that was presented in a sermon. Senator. We live in Iceland so much, and we have to pay special attention to them. We're talking about working with our land transplants, and I know what to do. A senator's knowledge of it was very well related in his talk, and he has deeper and more knowledge of it. But in view of the news I think I heard yesterday about research at the Landing School, I wanted to draw attention to it, and I urged the committee to call out specifically for information from the College of Agriculture on this subject. I think it'd be a great idea. I think it's important that we think that exactly what we're good at. We are now, for example. With the United Nations University, which is no longer to be called, something else will be called in terms of land healing. We have so much to offer, and that's why it's so important that we keep our minds on that knowledge. I must admit that, a respectable president, I was shocked to hear these news yesterday and, in fact, think that we here at the council will see what the situation is in research, innovation, and science on important factors, such as healing, farming, and other factors. This is so directly related to what we have been discussing in other issues today that involve carbon balance and the opportunities we have in those materials. I'm sorry, a respectable president, but my question to the senator is found to be in contact with the University of Agriculture. How can we try to more effectively apply the knowledge available and encourage it? Could this council proposal perhaps be part of that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u109	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. 2.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Berry Haraldsdóttir, for an excellent answer. I agree to her concern about yesterday's news. How important it is that we do not weaken the foundation of research and scientific activity in our good country! We are fortunate to have strong individuals in the field of knowledge and skills. I agree with that, and I think I also said it in my speech that we can't let these down. We are in a unique position in so many respects, and we must protect it. There are many things in which we are good at, and in our land - healing and other institutions, the Forest, people have tremendous knowledge. And we must not forget that the people who have lived in the land and the farmers who have been cultivating the land know the best of the land. I don't know any farmer who has not had the goal of turning the country into a better place than when he accepted it. Then it is easy to point out a number of examples. And so I let my mind wander to my country, where I moved over 30 years ago, and there people were taking mods from gardens and hay first to tundra. Since all of this has become fertile and beautiful, the results are truly there. If we can use this wealth to help us heal the land and defend it, I think it's good. But I am concerned with the senator's position at the College of Agriculture, and I hope that the Committee will find some way to tie it in and tie it up. If it's possible, I'll be happy to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and I take to heart that we should, of course, use the knowledge of farmers because they are, yes, the inmates of the country, and I believe that there is an enormous amount of knowledge there. These are equally opportunities. That's why we're supposed to work with them, so this interpretation proposal is most needed and beneficial. Hv. A senator introduced only the knowledge of land healing and forestry. I must now say that I have often wanted to see these two institutions united to simplify my administration and have it more efficient. But perhaps my comment is merely that we can do it well, and I don't intend to accuse anyone of not doing it, but I just want to reiterate that when a minister proposes his proposal, it rests on scientific foundations and knowledge. Therefore, yesterday I singled out these news stories on the status of research at the College of Agriculture and believe that there is a reason for special consideration. I'm just stressing that in all this kind of work we're based on that kind of evidence. I have no doubt that there is much knowledge in the field ministry as well. Then it may also be what I mentioned earlier, that we don't kill dairy cows, so to speak, when it comes to this vital study and knowledge. This knowledge is also being exported. We must remember that we have so much to contribute in these areas. And speaking of development aid earlier, we have this knowledge, and although we are small, we have much to offer. Therefore, we must put our knowledge to good use and promote further research and innovation in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís again for a good answer to Haraldsdóttir's daughter. I think we can all agree that if we're going to look to the future, we're going to need the whole country. We need to be careful with the resources in the country, and the whole country is a resource. That may be what we have been looking at in a slightly different way. Standard farming? What is it? Farming is very varied. People decide to sit down on earth for different purposes and purposes. Classical farming is still present. Change has been made, all technology has changed, and all farming practices have changed, but it is also farming to be a tourism farmer. People may be fishing or in a variety of farms; they are not just grazing. This has made a big change. We need to have a share in making the land, and there are a lot of people like me who came to my talk or up to 600 people in Farming are making it. A number of forest farmers are participating in that assignment. I totally agree with that with what. A senator said that we should build our work and future work on scientific grounds, based on the knowledge we have, apply in the fountains of knowledge that have the greatest knowledge and build on it, and present it with scientific evidence. Our knowledge is what we are based on in the future, the knowledge, and the knowledge we need to maintain. We can't lose her. And then we have to be open to innovation and innovation. But then we don't always have to come up with the bike. Men have long used this method of cultivating land, closing soil, and building up the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u112	A respectable president. I'm gonna come up here to one big match, and I'm gonna do everything along with the candidates. I come up here to agree with this synonym that I'm naturally one of the carriers. I'm very kind and obliged. It's the senators of the House of forwards, and they've worked hard on it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Brusti Haraldsdóttir. The draft proposal encourages agrienvironmental and marine eco-efficiency ministers, in cooperation with environmental and resource administrators, to recommend a change in the law and/or regulations aimed at establishing an impulse system so that landowners are benefiting from reinvestment of land and soil erosions through crops that do not grow as food. I now quote a farmer who was also a poet. He wrote about the spring and softened the dust he was sowing. At the end of one verse, we read: I trust you with dirty dirt. I'm a man who went out to see him. Ten crowns and Faith in the Land That's all I got. The point is, farmers, landowners, who walk on this earth each time have only one earth to cultivate. It is our responsibility to take it to the future generation in the condition we accepted it. This interpretation proposal rhymes with Iceland's climate policy, one of its priorities, with the permission of a President: ▪ Few nations have as good an opportunity as Iceland's countries to reduce land use emissions and promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil. With centuries of decay and deforestation, the land has lost enormous supply of carbon in soil and vegetation. In the 20th century, heavy production of wetlands results in significant emissions of carbon dioxide from dried swamps. This emissions can be reduced by recovery of wetlands, and carbon can be put out of the air by agriculture and forestry. This is part of what we can do. The Kingdom's land - healing efforts have been progressive in promoting subherence and protection and transporting projects from land healing back to the provinces. Hv. paritaprevir Dr. Egilsdóttir mentioned the cooperation of Bjord to heal the land. That is an example of such an act. Icelandic farmers have shown a keen interest in land healing and carbon binding. Farmers are more than those sitting on the ground, for all of us can believe that we have the goal that Icelandic farmers have had in the past, to cultivate the land, and to use it as a resource, but at the same time, to protect and bring it forward. At the main meeting of the European Union of Sheep Farmers 2017, policies on these materials were adopted to care for land healing and carbon binding in sheep farms. That's where even the two of them come from. to say that the U.S. sheep should have a carbon level as soon as possible, with the permission of the president again: THE year 2027 C.E. will have an equalized amount of carbon. This will be done through agriculture, forestry, wetlands recovery, fuel exchange and other routes according to Iceland's Environment Management Programme. of March 2017, which was prepared for the National Society of Sheep. The cooperation and support of the governments and other parties must be sought. The aim is to ensure that all products of Icelandic sheep's flocks will be witnesses as without carbon components as soon as possible. A farmer's interest in the process of healing is very great, and farmers have expressed an interest in carrying forward and more on such projects. It is important that we show them interest and support. There farmers see an opportunity to demonstrate their social responsibilities through carbon balance. This is also helpful during the marketing of their products as well as providing a more broad range of employment opportunities in the country. Farming also moves to stop and cover land with vegetation, making it useful again. We work together on a global project that is the climate change we are witnessing. It is our common responsibility for all of us who build this earth to work out a solution to this trend. One factor is to reduce emissions and to bind carbon from the atmosphere through land healing and forestry. This decree of Congress relates to the UN's global objective of No. 13 on sustainable development in which climate measures are discussed. Since there are not many of us living in this large country, each one is responsible for his or her own responsibility. A nation - to - land inducing system is in accordance with the current government policy declaration. It says, by permission of the president: It's going to Iceland at the latest in 2040. This will be achieved by sustained reductions in greenhouse gas emissions but also by changing land use in accordance with internationally established standards and by ecosystem approach and planning. I quote again the poems of the Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristjánsson, a poet, and a farmer: Future generations Enjoy the might which I have alone. You see, it is the power of each one of us that builds this land that should continue to deliver it. We can do better, and we can do more. I think the Icelanders and I have been looking after this. This is of utmost importance. A respectable president. The welfare of each nation depends on the practical use of resources. The task is to restore resources to future generations in the same condition or better. The protection of soils and soil erosions is essential for sustainable agriculture. It is a project that can be done in many areas, both amateur and professional. It is also necessary to keep people informed of the benefits of land healing. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir When Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was talking about promoting the research and innovations of agriculture and the university we own, it was her decision. We have two agricultural universities, i.e. in Hólar and Innunna. It was a shocking story yesterday that reported that these studies had drawn together and that they were less powerful in recent years. I think it's time we handled this better in order to get on with innovation in agriculture and food production here on the land, that we use it in food production, etc. That's how this is so important. Finally, I hope that this council proposal will be fulfilled. I'm sure she'll come back to a professional committee, and I might come to follow her more closely because it matters that we work together to do this. If we don't, we'll just be in a ditch with this, or we'll be in a tub.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-28-72.u113	V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank those who have participated in this discussion. After that, I believe we're not out in a ditch, at least if there are three of us who have spoken here to direct this case, but that may not be the case. I know this is a very important case. It's bloody to go through the country and watch the tuna go off for a while. This is true in many rural areas and in too many areas, which are better off than there is. If we can get this out, we can use the opportunities in this, we're hitting so many birds in one strike. If we look out of a community plan, we'll fill up our plans to increase the number of employment opportunities around the country, we'll also have environmental issues, we're talking about research and all kinds of work around it, and the use of machines that may have been a bad new part of the year for farmers all over the country. Besides it, we use materials that are not used for feeding to close the country, heal the land, build it up. You can also make use of the ages, I can support myself. It is more effective to make use of, as many have done and may be done on an even greater scale, inexplicable, and distributed to them, that must be more favorable than letting them collapse at home. I think if we can make wise use of these resources, we'll go even further and we'll be even more effective in this area. During the district of last week, I passed through my large district, which reached all the way from Deepvoy to the north on Sigludður. It has a wide variety of communities, such as humans know. It is not only the different urban cities but also very different rural communities. In certain areas, large farms have been increasing, flourishing, extensive development, and extensive progress. When farmers had a 10-year livestock contract, they could start building fish and investing in the future because they were funded for it, so it works. It has been harder for sheep to build, more difficult times for us today. Since I invented this idea, I did it in most places, I must say, being very well accepted in it. This was well thought of by the men whom I spoke to them. People are willing to try this, get involved, and if we can move on, I'm sure this will help us. The tweets are quick to go off. It doesn't take many years before it is ruined, and it needs to be processed again or it just goes down. I'd like to thank the members of the council who participated in this discussion, and I hope that the matter is well discussed in the Committee. No doubt some adjustments can be made. Now I see that dates need to be changed, the time limit of when they should be completed, but that's just a little thing. We need to look into the future. We need to think of our descendants and of those who will come to live in that land for the future. In any case, we candidates have every reason to believe that here we can continue to offer wholesome agricultural products and to cultivate our country in a reasonable way, to use all the resources of our country, to build healthy, beautiful communities, and we are not alone. That's what I think there's a broad convergence about it. I want to finally thank you for this coverage.
