ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u1	On the night of Monday, October 28, 2000, Ísleifur's Gunnarsson, former general and minister, died. to the Department of Health at the Kopavogi Hospital after a chronic illness. He was 83 years old. After nearly 65 years of marriage, they were separated from each other, and his wife died earlier in the month. The Ísleifur of Gunnarsson were born in Reykjavík on July 19, 1936. His parents were Jórunn Ísleifsdóttir, a housewife, and Gunnar Espólín, the Benediktsson of the Supreme Court. Birgir concluded a student's test at the University of High School in Reykjavík, 1955, and a law test from Iceland's University of 1961 became a district attorney a year later, and the University Court of 1967. Before long, Birgir's mind was identified with the direction of the Ísleifur of Gunnarsson. After his first year in college, he became president of Waka, a social student of democratic students, later president of the Board of Students, and finally a student of the university council. He was chairman of Heimdall in 1959-1962 and director of the Association of the Young Independents of 1961,1969, president of 1967-1969. At that time, the Biir was the Birgir director of the Union's Young Independence Committee in 1961-1963. In the 1962 county election, Birgir was elected in the city of Reykjavík, only 25 years old, and it was clear that a representative of young people who were to be expected. In 1972, he became the mayor of Reykjavík, and he was well - known, and he was well - known in the city. He disappeared from that work in 1978 after a great campaign for the left groups, which then constituted a new section. Then, in December 1979Birgir a Ísleifur of Isles was elected general ruler of the country of Rudík. Here, at the beginning of 1991, he sat a quiet decade when he was appointed manager of the bank. In the summer of 1987, when Þorsteinn's Pálsson great government was formed, Ísleifur became a minister of education, a government that went from over a year later. The bank manager's position was in his late 70's. Soon Biirgi Birgir was Ísleifur with governments and committees, either from the Independence Party, Reykjavíkurburg, or from a free society. He was in charge of the deforestation organization and was the president of the Rooty movement for a while. Here at the General Assembly, he was chairman of a number of local employment committees and active members of the Parliament's international work both at the Atlantic Community and at the Western Council. He was sitting at 12 different councils all over the place. Nearly all of his life, from his early years, Ísleifur Gunnarsson was a prominent political man who was always chosen to take the lead among students, young independents, in the mayor's office and at the General Assembly. He also had a successful career at the Bethel penitentiary. He was very tactful in his manner, moderate and gracious in his dealings, rather withdrawn from day to day, as well as bonding with political opposers as with fellow soldiers, openhearted, and righteous in all jobs. During a hearing, he was moderate and objective. In Birgir the Ísleifur was an artist; he was a fine jazzist; and he was a great musician, a joyful crowd of friends. The gang's a daystand and a good boy. I pray to the assembly to remember Ísleifur Isle of Gunnarsson's son by rising from her seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u2	Borist, a letter from the Trustee of the District Assembly of the House of forwards that Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, a vice president of the National Parliament, took his place again on Monday, October 28th, as a replacement for the Egilsdóttir of Thorden Egl and dissuaded 2 strategman of the Apostle Party in the district, Hjálmar Hafliðason, a member of the Council. There's been a letter received from the 9th. That's the north side. "The Anna Sævarsdóttir's Lingué that she'll be gone soon and that she can't do Congress. So today, on Monday, November 4, takes place at the General Assembly as an assistant to her, the second vice president of the Party's list in the district, Hjálmar's Hafliðason, while 1st of the Arts is already sitting at a council, as we have already seen. Both of them have taken their seats in the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u3	At a meeting of the joint council of Iceland and the European Union on October 21, 2000. was Sigríður Á. Andersen elected president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u4	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 153, about a whale rack, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson. A letter has also been received from the financial and economic secretary where request is made to provide a written answer for the application. 157, on the cost of government participation in the distribution of fuel and the building of a loading network, from the Albertína Frisbjörg of Friðbjörg's Elíasdóttir. Finally, a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister has been received on request every request to provide a written answer for the requested request. 210, about deforestation, land healing, and recovery of wetlands, from the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs and Environment and Resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u6	President. V.E.G. In his talk at the Council of Northern Congress, the prime minister introduced the need to change taxation so that it served the objectives of climate and had to ensure that the pensions and funds of the government are in green bonds. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: What tax increases can we expect to meet these goals in connection with the tax system with climate? And in what way are you going to go to the highest. Prime Ministers part of the investment of pensions in the highest way. A minister expects to buy these so-called green bonds? Give it to the highest. A prime minister's time to join them in this psalm would also be interesting to hear the Supreme Court's stand. Minister to what can be considered a green bond. In recent years, there has been little progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, such as the rising use of the U.S. natural gas at the expense of coal. Whether bonds in natural gas companies in the United States were considered not to be green bonds, therefore, may be wondered. But most of all, I ask, Mr. President, what is the supreme plan. ▪ Prime Ministers in part on the investments of pension funds, and what tax increases are in store for these additional green emphasises?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry that focuses on how we can ensure that what we are doing is to form when it comes to government of public finance, serving climate goals. I'm sure I and what. A senator agrees that it is important that when a policy is set for the future, different parts of the system work together and when we set goals for lowering greenhouse gas emissions, we are not promoting increased emissions of other measures. Like what? A senator mentions and asks specifically about this government on the one hand has presented green coincidences. We have already seen a considerable extent of those who have grown in the design of life-friendly vehicles. Similarly, the government has introduced coincidences to electrically powered bicycles and bicycles to promote such a means of transportation that will make it easier for people to travel in that way. We have also introduced ideas about the increased investment in public transport, which is another way to change travel habits so that emissions can be reduced, and I am, of course, referring to one of my favorite topics. A senator called a city line. Hv. A senator asks if I will take part in the investments of pension funds and thus view my speech at the Northern Council as some recommendation, which is not to be interpreted. On the other hand, I believe that both government and pension funds look at the possibility of investment in green bonds. I have conned the ideas that the Icelandic government would be in an analysis of what is involved because I don't want to make such a decision, and I think it's normal for the government to make decisions about it unless it's well thought well. But as I said in my talk, it doesn't seem unusual to me that this is viewed by both government and pension funds, of course, of course, the exception of such advantages.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u8	President. Sounds like I'm getting an answer from the highest level. Ministers to the Council of Northern Congress have been some sort of opportunist in good company that should not be taken too seriously or at the highest level. Regarding the need for the tax system, a minister said that it hardly had the impression that things were being said about things like coincidences to buy on electric race wheels. I think people in general expected the Minister to be proclaiming more things than that. The bond, the green bond, said the highest. Minister in his speech: It is important to ensure that pension funds and funds of the public invest in green bonds. Now, it sounds like the highest. Ministers are pulling ashore with it, that these are just some sort of recommendation or expectation that the pension fund will decide to define some bond as green and buy more of it than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u9	Mr. President. I want to finish it for a while. A senator asked about the taxes, but I couldn't find out in my previous answer. We've been proclaiming green taxes on fluorinated gases and sentennial tax, which I think I know is what. A senator has found himself to be critical, but he has indeed benefited because he has been placed in other parts of the North. When I talk about bringing in green taxes and green incentives, it's just how we can change our community and all that stuff. A senator released my speech so that at the same time we guarantee the quality of life of the entire public, secure social justice while taking these steps so that the changes are just in small steps. I think it's very important that pension funds recognize the possibilities of green bonds and think it's very important that the state does, too, because I think that it can serve that purpose that the economy gradually shifts toward serving climate goals. Although I spoke of transformation, I did not speak of the revolution. A senator is here. But transformation is needed, and I think that we most agree on that in this room, to adapt our system to these goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u10	A respectable president. Who doesn't know the discussion of a cent in return to a dollar? We took that step in May, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Minister of Social Affairs began to try to reduce the impact of this impairment. She's now 1K. versus 65 pennies. But what does that really mean? Was it well arranged, and enough, then, to help us to see how this would affect the poor people who would benefit from this act of kindness that we might have expected? What has happened is that in August, disability was corrected over time since January 1, up to 200,000 k. The amount was natural taxed, and then it came to the loss of the rent money, and many of them raised their houses with a single pencil of about 40,000 bucks. per month. I give an example of a person with 96,000. correction that pays the price of 94,000. Back. It's being done as often as before, a respectable president, it's being right-handd and snatched with a left without seeing the consequences for the individual who is to be enjoyed. In this case it acts on me as if the systems did not talk, as if the well - being behind them had not been well - thought enough. I don't like this kind of work, a respectable president, and I'm asking the highest. Minister: Made the highest. The minister of welfare realizes that this would be the result, that this one board was viewed as pay of 180,600,000 dollars. and it would be calculated in one month, but not all eight months, as was being corrected over time? As a result, the results are the damage people have to face from their rural communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u11	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry, initially saying that as the senator quotes, it was a good step here to reduce the degree of impairment. As for the success of this system, I have long realized that the social security system is complex and that the impairment system inside it is complex. That is why we have talked to the simple system of decomposition groups, which included: The results of the committee that was active here, and we're working on primarys to simplify the social security system. The Senator asks precisely about a set of conditions that involve the improvement of rural living areas and the provision of housing benefits are stated to define income as defined according to an article on income and property taxes. They don't hear the Department of Social Affairs, but they are generally about what the taxable income is. The taxable income, with the exception and limitations of any kind, is considered to be income, and it depends on it. This is not a change we could have done on the social insurance laws at the time. Rather, it would be a change in the law on income and property taxes. I think there'd be a bigger discussion than this particular thing, if we were to talk about changing it, because there's a number of other laws specifically cited on income and property taxes. If we were to change that point just in there, we'd have to do it more in the system too. This, of course, would have costs and other factors, since it cannot be done in just one place. As soon as I'm saying it's not good to be bitten in this way by a certain group who need these housing benefits, it's a bigger law change than it could have been done as soon as we made a change in the dollar against the decrease at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I don't like it when a minister talks about a Šbara to me - there's no to blame. We're the lawgiver, and that's why I'm asking, " Was this a good thing enough? Was that well - prepared? Should they not have changed the law further? That's what we do here, the highest. Minister. The Constitution states that it is the Council that puts it on taxes and no one else so that I also say that by the change to take eight months of repeated correction from January 1 as a single payment on a pay raise that makes it much more possible for the communities to say, "You'll raise the pay by 150,000." In a month and now you're going to have to bleed for it, for surely we're going to lower your housing support. That's what I'm talking about, there could have been a possibility, topv. Minister, isn't it true to hand it over for eight months so that the blow hadn't occurred so much? Couldn't we have done it better?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u13	A respectable president. As I said before, the system is complex and the impairments within it too. That's why we've been talking for simplicity on the system. Of course, with all the human works and deeds of the council, we too can always discuss whether we can do better. On the other hand, when we were deciding to reduce the impairment, I believe that at that time, they were wise to approach older citizens. I don't think it would have been wise to cancel those changes, but, as I say, if we had intended to change the law on income and property taxes, it wasn't for discussion at the same time. It is a bill that, first of all, would be heard by another minister, and second, it would have required more work than we could do at that point. But would it be wise to change it and consider the possibility that some people who have incomes in the social security system would be excluded, or they would put it in other ways and stop testifying to the law on income and property taxes? [[The president calls.]] It may be wise to go on the road to review these factors, and I'm willing to go to that job with a problem. A member of the Parliament, or council, as a whole, would be willing to do so. However, it needs to be viewed collectively, not merely to specific matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u14	Mr. President. ▪ All case groups dealing with disabled people and micro-vital candidates are starving. Mr. President. This is a direct quote in the review of the Corporate Community on the budgetary of this government. Now I don't doubt my best intentions. Social Affairs Minister on matters that are desperate, but the numbers are not lying. Only a 3.5% increase in the incidence of microfilms, which is lower than the rate of remuneration, is expected to be slightly higher than self-inflation predictors. Accordingly, disability is to be observed by other groups. Theoreticians are a group of people in this room who make a decision about what to pay. We're now heading for 90,000 dollars to become a microenergy pensioner. lower than minimum wage. That's more than a million a year. In addition, only one tenth of the budget is placed in the budget at the expense of a dollar. This government also contributes to a reduction in the righting of the disabled, a reduction in aid tools, a reduction in rehabilitation services, a decrease in the protection of the workplace, and a reduction in the work contracts of disability. What the hell is going on, Mr. President? We have not forgotten, too, when the more portion of the project directly reduced the planned amount of money for financial discussions. Mr. President. So I ask the highest. Minister: Does he consider he an ideal invalid to be sufficient? Trusted Ministers to survive at 256,000. During a month as he expects more things to do or if a minister is willing to take some note of the 30 - page bill on the budget and submit a new proposal when the bill reaches cover 2. next week? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u15	A respectable president. Hv. In his speech, a senator cites only a 3.4% rise in the next year that did not reach the ups that were even. created in collective agreements. The global insurance system changes on funding every year. Remuneration is not associated with the index of consumer prices. Remuneration does not automatically increase, but it does make the social security. So we need to take this in the context of the elevations coming at a different time than those of a collective agreement. However, it is absolutely clear that an increase is being made to micro-organization workers and to this category of lawsuits is on the part of the government. Last year, we gave 2.9 billion to do so. to reduce impairment. The next year, we expect 1.1 billion, and at the same time, that is clear in the policy of this government, we are going to improve the quality of the disability donor, which must also occur together with what we are taking into account some global changes in the social security system and the rehabilitation system. That's what the government is working on. We are on hand in preparing bills and other matters that are in the Senate budget for the spring council that has to face the challenge of making changes in matters of interest. Sadly, we see too much disability incidence, and even if some reports have shown just a different picture, we still see too much money every year due to the incidence of disability. At the same time as we will make adjustments to reduce the loss of young people from a job market, we will improve the quality of this group. I totally agree with what. Since a senator may not be adequately treated by this group on the part of the government, we are going to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u16	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister's going to do better. It just so happens that this government has already put in three financial bills and has only one budget left, so time is simply running out. Patience is also running out. We have in this country over three hundred thousand poor people. They have families and others who depend on them and love them, and this group has simply been left behind over and over again. V.E.G. Minister doesn't necessarily have to take any notice of the United States of this room, but I'm asking the Minister to take at least... Marks on the Legislation or the labor movement or only the poor themselves, for the financial resources are indeed at hand. I'm asking, the highest. President: Why can't the ideal disability be improved before we turn down 40% as the government has done? Why can't we improve the quality of disability before we reduce the financial tax and the bank tax as the government wishes? Mr. President. There are many things to do, but it requires a political will to do so, and it certainly lacks a present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u17	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A senator to join with us who wants to make changes in the system, simplify it, reduce the damage within the system, simplify the data groups, while adding to the ideals of this group. Again, it's basic to improve the terms of the group, but at the same time, we have to attack certain system changes. That was a drawing line from a committee that worked here for the last spring. This legislature is intended to establish legal adjustments in order to support them in the work and at the same time improve the terms of the group. Given what has been won for the government, including By KPMG, the incidence of disability has been shown to result in an enormous increase in the amount of money produced by this group of paintings. This makes it difficult for us to improve our terms at the same time. Therefore, we must work together to reduce the incidence of disability as we improve the quality of this group. [[The president calls.]] It's on the government list. We have taken steps to break down the decline, and we are going to take further and larger steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u18	A respectable president. Recently, the highest witness was given. To say that there is always a better listening than there is a question about hearing and doing better. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers on the government action programme on climate, which is still in the first issue, without costs, without action, without progress and without commitment. I think this is serious, because there is a tendency now to provide funding for these actions without any idea of whether the priorities of the government will bring us the results both of the environment and of commitments. The question, then, is simple: How are we doing better by heaping money on government planning without having any idea of the results? What's it like to hear and make more guessing on the subject? Why, then, do we not yet know what commitments will cost us if action is not taken? Does a minister not hear the skeptics and denials that walk between members of the community and even members of a council? Secretary does not understand that lack of information e.g. the expense of commitment gives such voices under both wings, and the false news feed on such want? A respectable president. We are dealing with an enormous worldwide problem and with the best calculations that science can give us. This is a problem that affects all nations of the world and what's Iceland's answer? Listen better. This heat from the last century C.E. If the highest. So a minister is listening better to what is being done better by guessing the legal rights and their impact?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u19	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. We have previously discussed the plan of action, and there is a lack of calculation of what some of the measures there are to be made and what the cost is. This is what we've got. A senator often spoke in this hall. At the same time, a senator knows that working to correct this situation is quite clear that when we set up the plan in a previous head, we knew of the shortcomings that have been discussed. We're going to publish it at the end of the year, and then we'll see what can be achieved by what measures. I'd like to say in general that I think it was wise to engage in action immediately rather than wait longer. We now have large contributions for infrastructure in the construction of environmental vehicles, especially electric vehicles, both for the use of such automobiles but also for the support of the infrastructure in order to be loaded throughout the country and especially for the rest of the world. where we were staying. We have also undergone massive efforts in terms of land healing, foresting, and recovery of wetlands, which are also useful in coping with challenges related to the deterioration of nature in the world. We've set up more green taxes and have bills in this regard, both sentencing taxes and the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases. We've also, so I'm using the last four seconds, I've put large sums of money in research that will make us more successful in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u20	A respectable president. I'm putting out the inaccurate and how random it is for surgery. I'm working on the lack of priorities in that we're accepting financial and financial rights for these projects. Under the laws on public finances, priorities are to be placed so that the council knows what's being paid, what the benefits are of that budget. There's one more thing I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on in brief at the end, and there is another minister's quote, with the permission of presidents: 'but the studies will not save the ocean, they will need to reduce emissions. It hits me a little when it's in this way that research won't save the ocean. Then I thought, to save the sea. Could be the top. Minister would you please explain that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u21	V.E.G. President. I just can't agree with it at all. A senator explains that this is a random procedure. That's not true. In fact, if we consider the United Nations International Commission on Climate Change, the October 2018 report says that the world's countries need to focus on energy exchanges changing from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. That's exactly what we're doing, and we're focusing on the strategy we've proposed. However, I would like to state that we conducted this procedure before the IPPC report. The same report shows that to restore ecosystems, to reduce carbon dioxide levels by binding them, and that is just the emphasis we have set. Hv. A senator mentioned research in the ocean and how to save the sea, but studies such will not save the reduction in acidification but will only reduce emissions. We know this well, and that's what signed it meant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u22	A respectable president. During the past year, increasing discussions have been made about the status of immigrants in this country, and in particular, systematic abuse of workers in a labour market where their rights seem to be clean, though perhaps of a small group of companies, but in a very serious way. Of course, it is clear that we had not gone through the economic growth that we are going out of without the entry point. During the past decade, the number of immigrants has increased by 25,000, and their contribution to the community is truly priceless during that period. In Iceland's National Reflection, last week's University discussed the affairs of immigrants and especially their job post. There was a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs at a panel and his comments were quite striking. For one thing, it was observed that he did not believe that he was more than simply teaching immigrants about his job rights. It would be the responsibility of each individual to obtain information on the subject. He did not think that it would be a reason for strengthening Icelandic education because immigrants did not learn the language, and he specifically stated what it would be good to find it easy to get rid of people in the Icelandic labour market in that context. [[Take it up in: Smart.]] Of course, this is going contrary to the current strategy adopted at the General Assembly three years ago. Asking the highest is near. Minister, because I believe the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Employment and Foreign Affairs has not been describing their personal views: Is this Minister's policy, government policy on the affairs of immigrants?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u23	A respectable president. One who stands here and speaks could not attend this seminar because a government meeting was delayed, and the Ministry's Ministry of Social Affairs ran into the breach. It is being carried out after the implementation program on the affairs of immigrants, and there has been no change in policy. I've heard of these panel or the discussions that took place and heard of the fists that have been written by me that I hold the Continents. [[Up front.]] I haven't had a chance to put myself in exactly that thistle, but I've been told about the case. I'm telling you clearly that there is no policy change in the implementation of an immigrant strategy. We work in harmony with the agreed strategy, and we have, including Doing a lot of good in that language, such as. in a consistent welcome to refugees, where there is an increase in budget within the years to come. We are doing even better than we have been doing with it, for example. That those of you who come here as inmates can enter the same model as the greeting people are doing. There's no change in policy on this. I didn't have a chance to be there, but... A senator has apparently managed to interpret everything the secretary of the Ministry said better than what the minister has heard. As I say, there is a completely unchanged course here, and I pray. A member of the council to point out some issues in which the Department of Social Affairs or Social Affairs has diminished service or has not gone far enough in the field service to immigrants. In this government, we have been adding on this matter, and I also welcome a new convocation proposal. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé requested the establishment of the immigrant counseling agency. I'm very following that suggestion, and we've been working it out. Thank you for the urgency of what you've been doing. A senator who apparently is well equipped to interpret everything the secretary of the Ministry said in this requested pannel, in which the minister could not, unfortunately, be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u24	Mr. President. I felt that the comment was so serious that I saw a reason to discuss it with some of the meeting men who were there and read an open letter to the minister about the comment that the minister seems not to have read yet, if his words are understood here. I trust it to the highest. However, a minister will answer that letter. People who attended this meeting were shocked at the office's declarations of the labour markets and the labour markets, because these represent, of course, I can't say anything else, gross prejudice against the positions of immigrants in the labour market and their gross lack of interest in the Ministry and the Ministry of Justice to take care of the interests of this group. It is true that there has been an expansion of the reception of host power and a very positive change there, but this is about the whole large group of immigrants that are employed here and working and making a priceless contribution to the community every day, to secure the legal status of this group and to show a real interest in handling the systematic fractures committed in a group that is sensitive to the very fact that he does not know his rights in a labour market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It seems that there is no need to resolve this need by the Ministry of Social Affairs. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: What does he intend to do? Will he correct these comments, or will he apologize for them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u25	No questions can be asked when there is 20 seconds before a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u26	A respectable president. It's like I said last year against what. On the contrary, this government has done something very positive when it comes to dealing with immigrants. I traced it earlier. We've been expanding our services, we've done more to this party, and that's fine. We have even. Emphasize it with special emphasis through the Labour Department for Service... [[Up front.]] A respectable president. It's very difficult to answer questions when they're so frontal. We have stressed that this group's service is special. [[Up front.]] As for the Ministry General's comments at panel at a controversial hearing, I tell you, as it is, there is a totally unchanged policy with the current government, which has been since the first day, to do better with this party. I'm not in the position, since I wasn't there and I haven't seen any recordings of this or the print, to answer for a comment at the time. A senator interprets a fistula to someone there. [[Up front.]] I wish for it. A senator points to something in the action of the current government where we have diminished or reduced service. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, we have not done it, and we will continue on that path despite the fronts of the drive. Councilmen refurbished in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u27	A respectable president. Reinforcing forest is one of the factors that are viewed as carbon. There have been excerpts in forestry and land healings on the part of the government. However, considering the budget of 2020, it is as if there are sounds and a picture that does not match when we consider contributions to the forestry industry. The so - called Mogular Punishment Money, 28 million, and Straums coins, 76 million, total 104 million, are cut off. Of the 200 million that the government contributed as new funds for climate, 32 million returned to the forestry industry. It was suggested at one time that the switch between land healing and wooding was 50: 50. I want to know what's changed, the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister, for the review of the Environment and Transport Committee with a financial programme 2020-2024 states that, with permission of the President, the priorities of increasing funds for deforestation are increasing beyond the current budget. In June 2018, more part of the financial legal committee is listed as highlighting, by permission of the president, ◯ setting priorities for forestry. Their contributions were greatly added to the years following the collapse of the bank, while investments in that language support many environmental objectives. Now, when it seems that the forest needs to reduce the cost of business management, there is an increase in the well - adjusted forested future. The forestry can successfully expand its activities based on the way it is being driven today by manpower across the country. The forestry, on the other hand, cannot, when the management funds are cut down to the Agency. For farmers to have counselling, good quality systems, and success measures, people need to work. I can't think of that end if the forest industry is going to reduce this surveillance and give up people, reduce their services to farmers, reduce their jobs throughout the country, and at the same time are spoken of dramatic action in climate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u28	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for asking about this point that has received considerable publicity, perhaps in other locations than the acoustics of this hall, and would like to start to mention that over a four - year period, according to the schedule of the person being present and the prime minister introduced in July, is targeted at twice the extent of foresting, twice the extent of land healing, and tenfold recovery of wetlands. Wetland may sound more than it is because it is small today, but we aim to do so with greater force. What follows is the change in budgets for the Forest. First, I want to point out that on page 5. Thirty - eight of the covens of the law making contributions to the forestry industry were some 220 million this year, reaching 307 million in 2020. In fact, from 2021 and 2022, it is said that the amount is still 307 million and is increasing to 362 million and 392 million in 2022. I'm sorry that this didn't work right into the budget bill. The main reason for it to appear as if there was a cutting to the forest between years of age is that it was a temporary authority for the wooding industry, which is as if by means of the land that came into place during a certain period of time. There were some 76 million each year, and they are no longer there. This is not the case with cutting out your teeth from the forestry industry. Rather, it is making more money on the contrary during the next few years. I'm also looking for a way to correct something that's going to become of the big one, you know, a change that's going to take between years of credit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but as mentioned in it, it's a impairment, and I can't understand it any other way than it's in the budget bill. Despite changes in funds for the Straums and Molds, this amount is 104 million, which is naturally destructive at the time we are supposed to be adding to forestry. The forestry industry operates very well in its quality control and has, for example, a high level of activity. ... madeover700invents, et cetera. which is being taken out to achieve the most effective forestry. That's when we're talking about crops. With regard to the exchange of the 200 million, I have so far understood that there would have been equal ratios between land healing and wood management, but there seems to be only 32 million woodlands. [[The president calls.]] I'm curious about why.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u30	V.E.G. President. It is true that it is not only the amount of property that falls out there but also the so - called Mölgil wound money that I have no responsibility for, as they are responsible for by the Department of Employment. When the budget was made last year, an even exchange was made, simply because it was going to divide exactly what the budget should be done. In my opinion, it is not only that the institutions should receive equal donations but that is the work we are working on. It has an excellent balance in my opinion, as is the situation today between crops, recoverys, which will pass through both, forests or other types of land, both in agriculture and in the forest, and then in the recovery of wetlands. That's why it doesn't appear in the same way as it did last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u31	Mr. President. I would like to thank a minister for his response and for this discussion about the great problem we face. In fact, a nation's epidemic of mental illness, often linked with drug abuse, is growing with tragic consequences. It seems that the mental field of the Land Hospital is not able to cope with its pressures. I'd like to have this discussion that we all here can put together strings and make arrangements already to reduce the number of deaths we could have and try to prevent as many as possible. I can't deny that I have the story of a young girl whom I have permission to say, which may be typical of what happens to people in this situation. She was diagnosed with a difficult nervous system disorder at an early age and was treated for it. She was severely raped when she was 16 years old, and that event followed her, a shock, over and over again, until finally an alleged offender was justified. In time, she was sucked into more drug abuse, a prescription medicine, and her mental illness grew as a result. Several times when she was in a mental - health ward with suicidal thoughts, graduates, she was sent away. She repeatedly tried to commit suicide, and in her fifth attempt this summer, she took her own life, that young girl. We cannot recover it or others who have faced a similar fate, but we can take decisive action to prevent more people from going that way. In my opinion, and I'd like to ask the minister about that, have to go to the administrative department in the state of the Land Hospital and assess the pressures. Change is required. It needs to promote and integrate SAY activities, e.g. in detoxification. There must be a better frame of options, such as. Crysavík. If all of this works together, hopefully we can do something to keep them going. We do not do so by forming a committee or by developing a long course of action. We need to do something now. I'm absolutely sure of that, chief. Minister, that in this room, everyone is ready to assist in changing the situation. We need more money in there, and I'm convinced that here's the will to make it happen. Therefore, I would like to call a minister to agree immediately with all council members that we can make radical changes in those matters, radical action now. We cannot afford to lose our children, young people in the prime of life, people we hope for and want to embrace this society at some point, we cannot lose these young people in this way. So I ask the minister to accompany us in the process of taking action now and I am quite convinced that she will meet the will of this chamber to make it possible. Let's just board the sleeves, and let's get started right away, and there's no time to waste. We're missing the train, so let's get started right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's eulogy for asking for a special discussion about young people's mental health problems. The Senator asked for a discussion about certain questions I was sent, and I am both kind and obliged to fulfill their wishes here. He first asks for a discussion about the untimely death of young people, who, of course, may be due to various causes. It is very difficult to discuss such delicate cases here, but I will briefly discuss two cases, one of young people's suicides, and one of drug overdose deaths. The surgeon general lists every year the number of suicides recorded in a death list. Since the nation is very small, there are few changes in the number of inevitable fluctuations in death. Hence, statistics need to be interpreted from year to year with caution. During the past decade, the annual number of suicides has been in the range of 27◯49, an average of 39 per year. Suicide is generally more common among men than women, both in Iceland and in neighboring countries, and considering the incidence of suicide in different age groups at this time, it is seen that it was most in individuals 30 years of age and older than it is the key to suicide in all deaths much higher among younger people. Thus, in the past decade, about one third of the deaths of individuals aged 15◯29 years were explained by suicide, one of the most common causes of death in that age group. In turn, a surgeon defined drug related death as death as drug intoxication as an underlying cause of death without any intention. Considering the incidence of such deaths in different age groups, it is seen that they are most common in either sex at 30 years of age; however, in the age group of 15◯29 years of age, the rate of such deaths was 11.4 per 100,000 people in males and 4 per 100,000 people in females. No such deaths were recorded for children under 15 years of age. Data on which medicinal products led to death in these cases are not available, but opioid antidotes are common. In this context, I would like to report that earlier this year, the relevance of the prescribing and dispensing of medicinal products, which include: limits the prescribed opioid and inducing medicines. When considering the use of these medicinal products each year before and after the regulation, it is observed that these medicinal products have been prescribed to be reduced by 9.2% between the years of use in a number of daily doses. A reduction of 5.8% in the individual population has been shown to be measurable in this respect. Hv. A senator asks about the untimely death of young people with a mental disorder associated with drug abuse. This is a statistically complex question that is difficult to answer on the basis of available information. Since data are generally not available at the time of death, mental illness is not documented in the pathophy. Despite having this information, they would not necessarily give the correct picture of how many of the deaths caused by drugs, drugs, or suicide are linked to a previous history of mental illness. This can lead to many reasons, a mental disorder, and a medical disorder. It can be below the diagnostic criteria, and so on. Hv. A member of the body also notes that he wants to see what can be done on these matters in the mental - health system, as well as his meditation on these matters. As shown in this discussion, there is a strong awareness of mental health. I think we're realizing that for years mental health issues have come to an end and need more weight in the discussion. We have an understanding that mental health is the basis for a healthy life and a life - style that affects our quality of life as individuals and families, etc. A management group on the affairs of children and members of the Senate is now working on the changed order of the entire welfare sector in order to better control children and young people in general. This global review of services to children is an important step to improve the well - being and well - being of children. A respectable president. I've got to tap a big bute. A senator also asks about funding, if it needs more money. For mental - health funds to promote health care in recent years to meet mental - health policies, it can be said that this year there were an increase of 650 million budgets, by 2018 budgets by 60 million, as well as 45 million to promote the BUGL's walking department, and 2017 financial contributions to health care were increased by 60 million to increase mental - health care. The 2018 budget of the country's hospitals increased by 180 million, directly to promote mental health, and in the same budget for the Akureyri Hospital. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I hope that I can answer questions. A candidate's exactness later in the discussion, of course, is that there is no simple solution. I thank you again. A senator for taking up this important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u33	Mr. President. I'd like to direct the attention of the United States Congress to our school system, our play, elementary and higher schools. Just before the weekend, a report by a surgeon with research on mental - health status, prevention, and support for children and young people in school in Iceland was published. The results were not particularly positive. For the benefit of mental - health and especially for the benefit of children and young people who suffer from mental distress, formal school support, especially basic school schools, is needed. To support the children and young people who grow up in homes where family members, parents, or siblings face such challenges, we need to build up the halls at all schools. The school system is the principal contact with young people and ideal circumstances in order to help them. The report also clearly revealed the inadequacy of the school system, teachers, and other employees in order to know the psychiatric problem and how to ensure the best possible services and care. Sadly, this does not appear to be enough professional work or knowledge. Mr. President. The fact is, the consumption of neuro-psychotics in this country is considerably higher than in our neighboring countries. Ten percent of all children and teenagers in Iceland use antipsychotics regularly. In 2018, the consumption of 10 to 14 - year - olds by prescribed hypnotics increased by more than 20%, and a tenth of every child at the same age received a prescribed agonist. They're three times the population in Sweden that's closest to us in the North countries. With increasing school prevention, I am convinced that we can reduce the number of pharmaceutical interventions and, most important of all, improve the well being of children and young people. Here's where we're going with prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's villager for starting this needed discussion, and just as I would like to thank the highest degree. A minister for her contributions during the discussion and the good response of the past and now to the various matters that have been presented in this case. Of course, all of us members of the Parliament know that they have shared in various forms of assistance on these matters. I'm not going to repeat what the senator who spoke before me has said, but a number of observations were made that are interesting and that she mentioned in her report. It's clear that the first, the two, and the three, we have to record, the prevention of the shoes, the prevention of these young people. In this regard, we need to use young people for our own protection. The experience of those who do this is that young people listen primarily to their peers and contemporaries and pay more attention to them than do older ones. Of course, people are traveling to help, but we need to make this much more sure. Treatment of young people on Vogi, in the SÁ, and in Hl surgical beds where the treatment is greatly improved, is also required to support the treatment of both housing and treatment. The same is true of Cyslavík. We need to strengthen these places, they are different from material, but that is also what people in this crisis need. We're going to have to go against the problem, and I'm going to agree with the words that have fallen by this authority that this is a huge group of paintings that we all need to be concerned about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u35	A respectable president. According to the Internet, it was Jiddu Krishnamurti, who said: "It is not a measure of health to be well-adjusted for a hematological society. I've always loved this quote. So we take for granted that a person who is well - adjusted for society is healthy and that a person who is not sick is sick. Just looking at two popular religions or just different cultures, even in the same country, may be necessary to see how that teaching simply does not hold a view. Rather than viewing psychiatric disorders as a medical condition, at least In any case, we should view it as an inadequacy for any reason, perhaps just a coincidence, to decompose in society. It can be natural that a perfectly healthy person does not smoke in a helmic society or even a healthy society, regardless of what it means. It is a problem, however, even though a so - called healthy person has difficulty with gnarling in so - called healthy society. However, we live in scientific times, and we can receive guidance to cope better with our lives and with our entertainment, our environment, and our lives, and this guidance is found in psychology and so - called psychiatric medicine. I find drugs very easy to look at and right away to talk about suicide. Both are very serious subjects that are difficult to discuss in a piece of precision. Mental - health services and mental - health services need to have a slightly different place in the community, and they need to be treated long before they become heavily dependent on drugs or thoughts of suicide and are more likely to be a service that we view as a public service than health care. Psychological services should be for everyone, in my opinion. That's what the budget needs. But there is also a need for change of viewpoint. In a modern society that is complicated, strange, and difficult, it is no wonder that a perfectly healthy person has some problem with fumbling in society. [[The president calls.]] That is how we should view it, not necessarily as a disease, but a part of human society. But we also need to finance it properly and maintain the view that it is for all and not just weak people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u36	A respectable president. Thank you for the voter for an important discussion and the highest. Minister for his entry. For everything, education and information are to be avoided. So it is important to focus on the underlying factors, which matter to the cooperation of a state and a community in mental health. The rurals have to do both with preschool and preschool. The foundation for good mental health is laid through school, leisure activities, and sports. Early intervention and collective measures are important as soon as the trials are noted. The level of health at school needs to be overall, but it builds up all aspects of a person's future world. A person in today's society begins to develop with his parents, and then he spends much of his formative time in school. If a mental health disorder starts to develop, it is important to intervene with an early intervention that includes the immediate assistance and assistance of children before the problem progresses with harmful and irreversible consequences. Paediatric risk factors such as anxiety, depression and/or trauma are a factor in prevention. Thus, appropriate support and instruction can be provided if the individual is considered at risk. Presidents of early intervention are that society's institutions involved in child - care activities work to coordinate treatment and ensure a cross-cutting approach, consistent with all that they are responsible for children. However, not everything is done through school but needs to nurture the family, support parents with a role that has a good effect on society. It's so easy for us to put our heads under and keep going. A mild - tempered society creates a better sense of identity and space for the attention of one another. One way is to aim for an increase in birthworm to 12 months for which the current government is planning for and for a more flexible working period. It brings us closer to a family-friendly society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u37	Mr. President. Thank you for taking up this important subject. I'm sorry, but we're here at the council, and it can be said that it's a good thing, to talk about this regularly every two or four weeks, I was going over it. This happens regularly, and you ask, "What are you doing? We know the problem we face, and we want our most sensitive moments to be alone. Whether our people are suffering from physical or spiritual illness, we want to have health care. This needs to be added, and we need to make sure that when young people, especially young people, are seriously ill and looking for help, seek help, and we know it, someone who grabs it will be there. Today, young people face special risks when they face spiritual illness. Every 5 young woman in this country is measured for symptoms of depression. There is much more than there are in all other European countries. The most common cause of death among men aged 18◯25 years is suicide, as noted earlier. Of course, these are pathetic facts, but they're supposed to come after us. I hope that as we follow the next discussion, something even more has gone up in the medical field. There are suggestions available at the council that we can make. During Reservation, along with one third of the members of all members of Congress, the last winter and now, a proposal that provides psychological services and other clinical interview treatments in the same way as other health care professionals. There are options, there are suggestions. It is possible to get involved, and I sincerely hope that the government does not look at this proposal and say: "It does matter where good comes from. ' [[The president calls.]] Rather, let us agree with this proposal by our senators in all categories that precisely put psychological services, clinical treatment, under the same standard as all other health care services. [[The president calls.]] Young people deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. the advocate of this need for discussion and the highest. Minister for being here with us. Somewhere it says that the mind and hand must go together. This certainly applies to the mental health that we are talking about today. We will not work at all if we feel spiritually bad that we cannot see to the next day. Why in the world would it be said that we are most likely to prescribe antidepressants among civilized nations, those in Western lands, if not just on the whole earth? Why do we have such long waiting lists for our children to be diagnosed? Why do we allow our children to feel so bad for so long before we step in and help them? Why do we not have psychological treatment and a range of mental support for our young people, in the future, at the root of this land? There is an increase in the problem and increase in the season after the term period. The number of those in pain is increasing in this group of litigators. Here we talk about all sorts of box-shaped, framed facts and other things when I would like to see them say, "Yes, we want and let's go, we can and we'll jump it up." We refuse to agree that this is normal in our society today. Our children are the future, and we should never have them wait for help when they wait for analysis or whatever, that may lead to little more than what we want them to avoid, that they go off the path, and look for material that we especially want them to eat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u39	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Sæmundsson, for bringing up this matter and the Minister for being here. This is a sensitive case and it's difficult to solve in two minutes. The minister came in earlier that there were no simple solutions, and I agree completely. I have also thought about it because the problem is growing and has been very much discussed in the community. Of course we know, at least I know that cannabis has evolved in such a way that it causes a much greater bipolar disorder than it did ten years ago, thus developing the plant, and many young people eating the material. I have also wondered if we are inculcating the right things for young people. Some suffer from an illness that cannot be treated, but in many cases, illness is acquired, and depression often leads to mental illness. Do we encourage young people enough that they themselves can serve society, what they can do for society, not what society can do for them? Is that how we talk to young people? Do we encourage young people to be useful to society and to find themselves worthy to participate in society rather than always carry young people on our shoulders and not allow them to grow up in a positive way? I feel that these developments have gone back in the past few decades, and I want us to think about it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this and the highest discussion. Minister for the participation. I believe a mental and prophylaxis job must begin very early. A recent report by Sigrún at the office of Daníelsdóttir, Sister Daniel, shows that social and emotional skills are not taught in schools to a sufficient degree and are not started at an early age. By teaching them, it would likely be possible to gain more control over the mental well - being of young people than we do today. Hv. The members of Parliament are presented in an interview with Sigrún on the visar.is last week, with the permission of a president: What's social and emotional? It is knowledge and skill in knowing and understanding your own feelings, knowing and understanding other people's feelings, getting in the way of others, being able to communicate successfully, create, and maintain friendships, may successfully resolve differences, may make responsible decisions. This is very pointed, however, what we should be teaching our children so that they will have the best that we want them to take into life. I believe the school, maybe the elementary and the theatre, should be the scene. There we reach virtually every child in the country, and we have an example of the outstanding success of prevention efforts in this area, for example, to develop in smoking and alcohol abuse by young people, etc. [[The president calls.]] That's where we're supposed to start.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. The rate of infant deaths in Iceland is the lowest in Europe and probably the world. We are proud that maternal protection is safe and that baby monitoring has the best known. In the early years of preschoolers, the development and feelings of children who take their first steps at school are especially monitored. But it seems that something happens over the years with too many people, not all of them. Somehow, we lose our concentration, the thread is running, just when it's most urgent, during a formative phase in young people's lives when things are going down, and the harassment is frightening. All the systems that we have created are greatly affected by the most difficult things to do, the social service, the health system, the school system, and, above all, the most important foundation, the family. In the summer of 2016, the General Assembly agreed on a policy and action plan on mental health matters for four years, and it runs its course in six months. There are many challenges, but in view of the situation, more effective measures are needed, especially for young people. Who does not know about the tragic outcome of youths'lives and experiences in the media? We know many of them even in our own eyes. Comparative statistics from other countries cry out for explanation. What Is the Cause? What causes Icelandic girls aged 15◯24 to take more than four times as much antidepressants as their peers in Denmark? What has caused the suicide rate of boys aged 10 to 19 to be higher in the north than in Iceland? What causes no group to take as much ADHD as any Icelandic boys aged 10 to 14 years? Is this all right, Mr. President? I say no. We need an explanation. We are to draw them out into the daylight light, discuss them shamelessly, and discuss them openly. We're supposed to work with these subjects and dig in on the explanation - because they exist. [[The president calls.]] We are to react, and there is no time to lose that life is at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u42	A respectable president. I thank you very much for this vital discussion that we have to take here all the time and keep up our toes. I would like to start by saying, " What do young people want? ' What do young people want in this regard? It may not necessarily call for more money, it is calling for measures that they may take to get help in the problems they face, resources that do not result in the need to be on long list, resources that do not make the people start eating, products that are not endless prescribed. People want open resources that are accessible and that are present in their places and on their own ground without making them some social security number. Therefore, we do not necessarily have to call for more money. Rather, let us just discuss how we use the money we have today. I think we need to turn the system around. If we look at this, more than a portion of the money we put into these cases is about running institutions and institutions and paying off medications and medicines and products, and again, instead of helping the root, which has the solutions, but the root is not able to flourish. She will not have the opportunity to thrive with these open options. There are many of them. There is a subversive work, and it is running on equal terms, where people come in and find their own resources. Of course, medications and organizations are important. We just need to take this in the right order, as we talk about in health policy, first, second, and third degree of service. The defenses are in the open air and in the first phase. Then there is the second phase and then the third phase, where the drugs and organizations certainly come into being. So we are to unite in strengthening all these things and to make sure that young people, those in need of service, will receive these provisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u43	A respectable president. I kind of feel compelled to come up and defend young people because of the recommendation of two years ago. Senators of this discussion. First of all, ask me why. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson whether we are inculcating the right attitude for young people, they ask themselves what they can do for the community, not for what society should do for them. All right. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson believes that it is important for children to be emotionally motivated, they have a lack of emotional ability for our young people, and that will solve these problems. I wonder what. Councilmen have wondered if they have learned emotional skills in elementary school. Do they have that much more emotional than our young people do today? I am certain that the basic schools in the country were emotionally trained at once. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson was in school. I don't think it has anything to do with whether our children or young people today have feelings or not. There may be some facts about today's anxiety, depression, and the expectations of young people. It is true that when it comes to the proportion of stress, loneliness, and unhappiness, young people feel higher than other groups. The political party of the group has also been joined together. But I wondered, " What has society done for that group? ' You see, that's not very much, is it? Senators. In recent decades, the young generation has fallen behind in income. The commercial power of the group has not increased, in line with the buyfulness of other groups. Young people live with less security today than before. It's been shown in this room. Today, people aged 18 have less money than in 1990, the period during which some members of this body were trying to collect themselves for housing, try to have tables for food, get settled, try to get a decent life. We have not offered our young people this opportunity, and it may have something to do with their anxiety and depression to make us unrealistic and impossible to expect of them, to have their community, but to do nothing in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u44	V.E.G. President. There are many factors that contribute to the health and well - being of people. These include exercise, communication, diet, general living conditions, and the environment in which we live. They also contribute to better health and can have a negative impact on our health. According to a study of young people's condition, much more is considered to be their physical and mental health or very good. We need to ask ourselves, " How do we improve our physical and spiritual health? ' The spirit of the day has indeed changed with the appearance of social media and false stories and revelation revolutions about the world's problems. Or are we too busy promoting negative things in the community? If you examine the situation of young people in 2011 and 2012, since then the spiritual health of young people has deteriorated according to their own, and since then the number of youths who engage in organized social and leisure activities has declined. But we must not take a distinct group and make all the facts for the discussion, for what group are we speaking of? Are we talking about those who are not likely to get into trouble? Are we talking about the group that's likely to get into trouble, or are we talking about the group that's in trouble? We have plenty of resources in all the systems we have built, our health systems, our school systems, social systems, etc. These systems need to talk, which they don't always do. We need to make good use of all these resources, not view them as self - determination, vast sports, leisure and youth work, strengthening our community centers around the country, which are highly preemptive. Prevention is not a single - trade operation but a persistent matter, and this results in our success. Above all, we need to show interest in young people, whether they are playing video games or playing soccer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u45	A respectable president. We are discussing the mental health problems of young people, and thank you very much. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the discussion and Minister's discussion, as well as for participating. We have to look at this from one point of view. What do we do when we have put people in an institution or in some other way help them, get them on medication? What then? Sadly, the fact is that when people are released, e.g. of mental health care is possible because of a protection plan to graduate individuals without anyone accepting them, not having any supervision, nothing, just straight to the street. I know of such cases in the presence of this lack of control, where a person has taken his own life. We have an unacceptable home for the mental ward of the Land Hospital. They need to be cleaned up, this is an old home, an outcast, our neighboring nations have a much more modern and better home. Then, what happens when young drug users are released, e.g. From the FEE or other institutions? Nothing but the street. Social resources, benefits? There's nothing to take over. This is where we come to the point. We're losing a large number of young people in suicide. We are losing more young people in suicide than we are dying in traffic accidents. What do we do when people die in traffic accidents? We're sending out NTSBs, they're gonna call all the alarm alarms, they're gonna do something. How would it be if we had a response team in that situation and saw that no individual has to be alone, released, on the street and standing there alone without any help?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the discussion, and I'd like to thank the Minister especially for what she's offering here. In her case, it was stated that money and money have been put into this situation and that it is to be respected. However, that is not enough. I agree with each other, and I disagree with the highest degree. A minister when she says that there is no simple solution. I think that if we put our minds together, we can find simple solutions. It is next certain that in this particular case, we are dealing with emergency problems and preventative measures. We are discussing how we can hold on to the group that finds this street so that people can gain a better life. As for the emergency problem, we can, for example, cope with the problem. it is taken after eight days, then it will be 2nd. The budget, and then we can contribute more money to this lawsuit party. It's easy. This is one of the simple solutions. If we all want to, we can do that in the first place. But we must, and I repeat, deal with the problem we know we exist and deal with the offenders we know we exist, e.g. in the treatment of adolescents and young people in the clinic. We need to deal with it. All we need to do is open our eyes and I feel that these discussions have been honest and honest in that respect so that we need to face this problem. We need to discuss it openly and by all means, let's board up sleeves and clean up the mess. [[The president calls.]] We can start with 2nd. Funding by contributing handsomely to this group of paintings, let us continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u47	A respectable president. As noted in the past, we regularly discuss these matters here, but unfortunately, we always have the narrow framework of a special discussion. I have a feeling that it is not just about me but about others that they feel they have not finished the discussion in any way. I have found very many tips to be made, and in general I feel that, fortunately, the group is heavy and serious, and it is clear to all that this is not the scene for a traditional political nod, but much rather to unite and seek solutions. This has been the case since then. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned the importance of mental development, prevention, and school support. I think it's also the product because we're getting a better sense of it, like cot. paritaprevir The Bogi of Hafliðason also mentioned, that we need to adjust all our systems together. We cannot resolve this as if it were a health issue or a social issue or part of a community or a school assignment. We have to put together strings, and I am particularly pleased with the work we have started with the evidence that we want to support children in the community and members of all groups, because it is an assignment that deserves such approach. I stopped and listened immediately. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that perhaps we should look at how we live more than in what situation each one may face. I think we in general should look at society more on people's strengths than on their weaknesses. I think it's actually the guide or the lunch we get from the discussion about disabled people's affairs, we're supposed to look more at what people can do than what they can't. But it is true that primarily what you see is the condition requiring emergency action. [[The president calls.]] It's the action I've gone over here, and I'm glad to have a team in the U.S.A. team in regard to focusing on mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u48	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in national law and a decision to establish national boundaries, national boundaries and delinquency, No. 58/1998. On July 1, 1998, national law went into effect and was the main purpose of the legislation to address the uncertainty of land property rights, as stated in the historical history of the past. The prime minister, when he recommended for the bill, was making up a foreign region, which no one can prove to be his property in, and he has taken little note of the rights of the nation, to which the rights of them have been given. At the entry of the law, a nobility committee began to investigate and determine which country was considered to be national lands and their boundaries and lands of possession, to set the boundaries of the new national boundaries as news, and finally to other national rights. The work of the Wild Committee has been a major challenge, mainly due to a huge number of documents that have to be examined for problems with the Committee, time - consuming data collections, complex statistics, and a number of conflict areas. Nevertheless, the work of the Wild Committee has been far along, but the committee has completed a consideration of more than 88% of the continent's area and is aimed at completing its work in 2024. The unchanged rules of conduct for the Unmarried Committee would likely require more time for the Committee to complete its task, but it is estimated that in the current years, it is difficult to perform the same treatments as to this point when the land area would be resolved beyond the coast of the continent. It will not be certain that the purpose of the law to determine the boundaries of land's possessions to the land where the land's land is all met unless the laws of the law are changed in the light of experience, for it is important when a board of the Wild Committee concludes that it is as certain as possible that any country is either a possession or a national property. Therefore, there is reason to reconsider the rules of the statute as suggested in the bill. There is also reason to ensure that the rights of those who consider their property and extend their authority to administer the ruling of the Wilderness Committee under the courts and to be reimbursed by the Committee. The class's special standing and the rights involved there provide a basis for action. It is important that the results are determined in as many cases by the material assessments of available data rather than just fair points such as the request for a property rights or request of a resurvection too late. Since the implementation of the national law, knowledge and experience in the administration of nationalities have been built up both in the Ministry of Presidency and at the national level, while rural society plays a key role in the management and control of nationalities. In view of the past few years' experience, there is a basis for reviewing the laws of the law on the exchange of permit role due to national and national rights between state and country, as well as the provision of income that falls within national boundaries. First of all, it is suggested in the bill to bring the license of students and other minerals from the Ministry of the Presidency to rural society, although at the same time the Ministry's approval of any such use is required, regardless of how long it is intended to last. The evidence is that rural society is closer than the State to grant permission for such efficiency, since the resulting noise may have a major impact on the environment of rural society, and it is important to ensure that the use is in harmony with the population and with natural protection in nationalities. It is suggested that the state's permit role is restricted to the use of water and ground rights, as well as to the wind, which is more than localization of mines and other minerals. Second, it is suggested that the law on the boundaries of the state's income institutions be removed from the law and is in accordance with the principle of public finances that there are no markets in individual laws. It is also suggested that the legislation be added to the law's provision for the development of rural incomes due to national and national rights, as well as to other activities already listed in the law, to protect the development of infrastructure and planning. In view of the increase in the number of tourists who visit the population and its pressures, often in vulnerable areas, this is a very important task. In addition, planning is the basis for needed policy development within national boundaries. Third, the bill assumes that a year's planned retirement of the Wilderness Committee will be changed to 2024 so that the law reflects the practicality of the Commission to complete its decision on the boundaries of property and nationalities throughout the country and to take care of the current financial programme. The fourth key is to clear up the scope of Regulation 4. The laws and clear sources will be given to measure the various details needed in national and national conventions and national rights and benets. This is particularly a price for use, to the extent of the contracts being made and the right or the duty to solve the monuments of use at the end of rent time, if that is the case. There is also a proposal to add a warrant to support advertising in the Regulation, which results from the administrative views of equality and transparency when national and national rights are temporarily distributed. Fifth, it is suggested that laws for the release of the Wild Committee on the rightful place of areas that may still question whether or not are directly dependent on the rights of property. It is suggested that this be done, on the one hand, by enabling the State to increase its demands on matters that are intended for the treatment of the Committee. The situation has been different in this respect, since the state has not been able to increase its requirements, but its data sources have been able to meet new and more demands during the course of the trial. On the other hand, it is suggested that a nominee be included in an area where the committee has made a statement to the State's claims so that they may have gone too far and are listed in the bill. The authority proposed to add the law will be restricted to these cases. On its basis, therefore, it will not be possible to deal with other areas, and the Kingdom will not be able to again describe the demands of a land that has previously submitted to such demands but was ruled or judged as a land of possession. This proposal for adjustment is therefore in accordance with the law's primary objective that land's state not uncertain about its ownership of land's state when this project began on July 1, 1998, with the sentence of the National Trinitarian Act and was intended to remove the insults that had been over many areas in terms of rights. sixth, the bill suggests that an additional step in front of the Commission's case on land outside the coastal coast of the continent and the public of lakes, allowing those who feel that they are entitled to become property at the beginning of the court treatment to describe their rights. The purpose of such a law is to reduce the number of cases where those who consider property rights need to be represented by a noncommittee committee. The State can then take a stand on the issues of possible courts, and after an incident, it may not be allowed to describe the demands of the people in areas that might be met by such demands, and thereafter much more time - consuming, and expensive treatments. Such provisions also help to ensure that plans for the work of a desert committee meet without compromising the requirements for the trial. Finally, there is a bill in the bill of divulging national rights to obtain a review of national releases. This is to be done by compromising the requirement of having previously made a requirement for a nomad committee in order to be reexamined by the Committee or by courts on demand. On the other hand, the terms of the administrative law of time and of the State's approval have been rejected in order to reimburse cases for the Committee. In contrast with other cases set free from governments and courts, there is some special status in this country. The translation of old documents that have been preserved in various ways may be tested there. Despite extensive and extensive search for data in Iceland's National Archives and elsewhere, it can not be excluded that significant data may be found after treatment and possible. The end of the court case is also the case. Data then developing in the search may suggest that the country's property situation is different from that of the previous decision and to ensure that it is the best rights for those who may establish rights on data that are late published it is proper to clear sources for Member States and production of new demands before judgment and to restore cases for the Unsurpassed Committee. The agreement with the bill was thus made that legislation plans were introduced to the rural communities where citizens are living at meetings far and wide around the country, as well as to the Ministry's Cooperative Committee on National Affairs, which operates on the basis of Article 4. The law. At that time, the Committee of the Wild Committee was consulted with regulations relating to judicial hearings for the Committee. The plans for the legislation and the draft that the bill was introduced to the government's consultation and received reviews from the Group of Travellers, the Union of Icelandic rural and Common Energy, the Department of Energy and Plants. Their comments were taken into account, as it were, and are toeded into a piece of paper with the bill. A respectable president. This bill suggests a change in national law and decision on national boundaries, national boundaries and delinquency, No. 58/1998. I further reiterate that the aim is not to remain in the country, where the property rights of them are hidden. In addition, the aim is to provide greater responsibility for national management and to provide those who count the rights of property increased when it comes to judicial hearings for nomads and courts. So I think this bill reflects in a perennial way the vision of the people who may have their own under these laws, i.e. taking into account different people in this bill. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u49	A respectable president. I always like to take a look at the impact of the assessment section, which speaks of the value of these contracts being less than 30 million. K. Every year for the next ten years, which are the income of the state's budget, which will appear to me as a member of the country. Then I wondered, " Who really goes into this world's possession when the government takes in the income of the land from these resources, and then they move to the countryside? ' Is the possession being transferred? I can't quite figure it out, and fine if it's done a little bit more clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u50	Mr. President. The holding is not being altered, so I'll answer a senator's inquiry. It continues to be national, but the income is passed on to the legislature council, i.e. to your team members in those situations where they receive this role. The amount of money depends on the person involved, but its ownership remains the same and continues to exist for the citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. It's a wide variety of subjects, and I'd like to bring them up mainly in the previous language. Many who thought that they had a right to own and had gone through this process of the Wild Committee have said that this is one of the largest property scenes they've ever had. Therefore, it is a very delicate matter, so you are trying to discern exactly how this change affects you. When some country has already passed through a desert committee and has come to a conclusion in the case where most land owners have been responsible for the burden of evidence, at least they feel that they can hope that this case will be resumed on the basis of new data? I understand that the arrangement, or judicial action, was so that most cases were ended if the country's owner was not under a strong weight of evidence, that the decision was that the land was a national place. Is there any chance that a case will be raised that has been completed by the Committee? There's something else. I don't know exactly how to say it, to describe a requirement for land rights. Then I'm talking about in the highlands and other things where rescue teams, outdoor companies, and others have their lands. If they have not stated a requirement for a desert committee, the country needs to be invited back to maintain harmony. Has this problem somehow been solved so that free groups of partners and rescue teams and others do not have to accept an invitation to property rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He mentioned that in many respects it was a delicate matter, but at the same time, I believe that this bill of the then prime minister described a very far - reaching point. I think that all of us can be very grateful that the National Committee was submitted at the time, even though I am aware of, of course, the warm feelings of many around the country because these are priceless valuables that we have as a community, the peoples. I think it's a forward view of the future Prime Minister who I think will matter far ahead to all of us. In fact, what is stated in the bill's report is a complete list of areas in which we believe it is normal for a noncommittee to be given further authority to describe the demands. It is not an open source, as shown in my case, but an explanation for those areas is given, and it will be provided after a very detailed review of the more than 25,000 documents that have been prepared in the work of the Wilderness Committee. Then there is a special provision also given to landowners, if any such documents are offered that have not been submitted before to describe the requirements. Of course, we cannot have a list of it because we do not have a view of it if something like that may arise. This should answer the question why. Senator. As for land rights and whether outdoor societies, tourism, and others are put in place to advertise, the answer is yes, that is. Of course, it is in the spirit of the transparency and equality for which we speak. At the same time, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that government policy has now been published about nationalisation, and there's a great deal of emphasis on our being under very strict conditions for the activities of nationalities that I think are centered on how people can enjoy outings and travel, the whole population of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I would like to be taken into account that those who went through the wilderness committees viewed the burden of evidence as more on their side and in most cases if they could not live under it, the country was ruled as national. The second answer comes up with something, the State as a landowner. You may not have much of the complaints about rights and other things about landowners because of building up. In the highlands and elsewhere, around the tourism industry, it has taken a long time to negotiate the development of tourism and infrastructure. Will the tenant policy be sufficient, or how can the State improve as a landowner?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. I think it's very important that he brings up the role of the state as landowners. Therefore, I felt very important that the State would publish national policy, but at the same time we're taking another step in it now, in which we are moving the authority to rural society, except for energy efficiency, which means to create structure, say in tourism, now moving to the countryside, to take sides with it. The role of the Ministry of Presidency is, then, primarily to confirm such licences and to see if they are in accordance with government policy as landowners. I think it'll be a relief for those who want to use the population and move it - some kind of license to exploit nationalities in accordance with owner policy - closer to the relevant sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u55	A respectable president. In chapter 3, the main subject of the bill is pronounced, with permission of the president: First of all, a permit for the use of studies and other minerals is proposed to be met by the team's permit and the approval of a Minister of all such efficiency, regardless of how long it is required to last. I wonder, " Is this an unfilled vector for chemical work, the use of mines, and other minerals, and for ever and ever, clockwork? ' I thought it was amazing when I noticed this expression that there seems to be no time limit, and it's just rural and Ministers who can decide. I want an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u56	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks for time limits. The general rule has been, if we look at the EFTA Monitoring Institute, ESA, that there have been indications on the importance of having a maximum starting time as long as possible. A senator asks around. There are very different resources, but the maximum is linked to a specific ratio between consumption and profit. The 12-month target of law, i.e. that the Ministry does not have to grant permission for less than 12 months, however, it is canceled so that permission is now required, although the use of the products lasts for less than one year, the old arrangement. We think we're putting a clearer law frame on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But I'm not quite ready to swallow the answer that it didn't need permission if it lasted less than 12 months. Why don't we have some space to stop? I feel that there's an unreflinchable use to the future, which I feel is wrong in every aspect of my life. It must be natural for this to happen because we may be talking about something huge. We don't know how much land is going to be working out the way that's under there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u58	Mr. President. I see why. The senator's concern is that there will be temporary licenses to be given here. This is not the case, however, the problem is that each case needs to be assessed individually when we are talking about duration. They have to calculate, as I mentioned earlier, that the person who uses the mine gets his investment back and what is called a suitable profit. For example, there may be differences in the size of a mine. We already have several mines in the country where these main goals are to be followed, but there can be a wide variety of degrees in both the size and the type of mineral that is being processed from the mine. It is difficult to put a certain number of years in use here. This can be discussed with the Committee, however, it is the responsibility of the government to evaluate the situation at a time. You can't grant non-term permission, so I say it like this at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the changing of various laws due to international fishing releases. The Icelandic government is a member of the International Labour Organization, the International Labour Organization, and is generally used in its short term by the Agency, ILO. The bill is submitted to meet the 188s Agency's demand for employment in fishing. This agreement is designed to contribute to the man - made work conditions of fishing ships, including fishing ships. so that they have increased safety and health at work, at sea and abroad, that shipmates get sufficient rest and receive adequate protection from employment contracts and social security as do other working classes. The Agency's Member State agreed on the approval in June 2007, and it went into effect on November 16, 2017. The Icelandic government has not validated its approval, but the aim is for Iceland to be ready to do so according to the legal adjustments proposed here. Icelandic law and regulations already meet the accepted requirements. However, there is a need for specific changes to be considered fully implemented, on the other hand, to be submitted and by the Regulation. These changes will provide adequate implementation of the approved rules, although it is not as detailed as it should be. This bill suggests changes in two laws, one on a sailor's side, and another on the crews of Icelandic fishing ships, patrols, cruise boats, and other ships. The changes proposed to seamen's law have to do with young people's night work. In the 9th. The minimum age for fishermen is agreed with the ILO. Among the requirements are the ban on the overnight work of fishermen under 18 years of age. Cold night lasts at least nine hours. This period should not begin later than midnight and not be completed until the end of the year. 5 in the morning. Seamen's laws do not require the overnight work of sailors on fishing ships, but they do. Section 8. The law says you can't have a younger man than 18 at work on passenger and freight ships at night. That rule was legalized last year by the introduction of another approved International Employment Organization, which had to do with the work conditions of passengers. This bill presents a change in this provision so that it applies to ships in general, including fishing vessels. Then there are suggestions that three more on the crews of Icelandic fishing ships, patrols, cruise boats, and other ships, first to add the definition of a fisherman to Article 3. The law of the law is a person who does all kinds of work on a fishing vessel, including one who receives an object for fishing. Oceans, law enforcement officers, other members of a fixed government, workers in a country who are on board at fishing, or fishermen who are fishing are not considered to be fishermen. Second, it is suggested that there be a new arrangement for the registration and recruitment services of fishermen. The law on the crews of Icelandic passenger ships and shipping vessels contains regulations that concern the function of these companies. It was put in place on the contract on the passengers' working conditions. Today, there are no employment agencies like this in this country. The bill suggests that comparable regulations will be added to Icelandic fishing vessels, watchships, cruise boats, and other ships'rivers. It stipulates that these enterprises work in accordance with an established quality management system to allow provision from a walking agency, that the service is efficient, adequate, reliable, free of charge, and that fishermen may be able to get a job. A treatment centre will monitor the implementation of the requirements for these enterprises. It is then suggested that a minister be allowed to give further details of the ship's recruitment and recruitment services on fishing vessels and to supervise it in the Regulation. Finally, the law is suggested to include a new article on health requirements for fishermen. The ILO agreed on the working conditions of fishermen is required for health examinations and proof of the proof of adequate health of fishermen in order to carry out their duties. The bill suggests that a fishing ship's developer and captain are responsible for providing proof that all fishermen meet health requirements. The duration of the certificate is required according to the requirements of the approved International Labour Institute, ILO. A word that allows a fisherman to work on a fishing vessel, which is 40 feet [24 m] long or longer or is averaged at sea for three days or more, should be up to a maximum of two years, but if a shipman is under 18 years of age, the duration will be one year. The time of proof of health that allows motor and ship management to operate on a fishing vessel less than 24 meters, usually at sea for less than three days, should be up to a maximum of five years. Other sailors on ships less than 24 meters in length do not have to present a health certificate. It is suggested that a minister be obliged to check further on the requirements for health of fishermen. Then it is suggested that this bill be legal, that it take effect on July 1, 2021. The proposed adjustment will be required to prepare the Agency and stakeholders. A treatment room needs to update the Agency's work structure and introduce changes to the structure, ship manager and crew. Then stakeholders will need time to obtain proof of health care. A respectable president. I have explained the key points of this bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u60	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in the laws on the crews of Icelandic fishing ships, patrols, cruise boats, and other ships. This bill presents a change in the definition of small vessels in Article 3. The law allows them to be counted as ships that have 15 meters [15 meters] of registration length or shorter than 40 feet [12 m]. Then a similar change is proposed at Article 12. The minimum number of fishing ships, fishing ships, and other ships used by sea management and motor operators is minimum, so instead of the design of fishing vessels with a length of 12 meters [12 meters] or shorter, they will be compared to ships that are 15 meters [15 m] to their registration length or shorter. The purpose of this adjustment is to simplify the principle of design. The current law uses four length points and aims for design requirements in length. So these are ships less than 40 meters [12 m], ships less than 24 meters [24 m], ships from 24 meters to less than 45 meters [45 m], and finally ships of 45 meters [45 m] length or longer. A national network of littleboat owners has called attention to its members'work by these laws but also to the law on the control of fishing that claims that no one is allowed to fish commercially in Iceland unless they have received general fishing permits. Public fishing permits are two kinds, a crop fishing permit and a hook-up goal. In 2013 a change in fish control laws was made, so now only boaters can gain a fishing permit with a hook - point that is much less than 15 meters long and less than 30 bridgetons. According to this, hook - bearing boats can be mostly 40 feet [15 m] long, but if the ships are 40 meters [12 m] to registration length or longer, they no longer fall under the requirements of a crew - on - skirmmed vessels, but in a group of ships over the size range of 12How24 meters, with increased demands for the management, control, and mechanical rights that follow. Then there are certain exceptions from the rules about design. If a cruise is to make up less than 14 hours, it is possible to apply for a warrant for the release of the ship's design committee, allowing the ship to remain without the driver. That warrant is always granted. Then there are laws and regulations based on marine farms, ships up to 15 meters [15 m] or under 30 ball most, with mechanical power of up to 750 kilowatts. The Mega Arms of 12 meters of rights get a license to operate on such ships by adding to specific courses. The bill thus aims to meet this discrepancies by moving the thresholds of small vessels from 12 meters to 15 meters to the level of legislation and one reference value for all small vessels. This can help to reduce the quality of the work environment and the welfare of the government. Along with these changes, adjustments in education requirements must be made to create rights on small vessels that take into account the changed length. Is suggested that the bill take effect on September 1, 2020, so that governments have time to produce these changes before the adjustment of the law takes effect. Finally, it is suggested that a provision be made on January 1, 2021, of the legislation that determines that the rights to operate on ships less than 12 meters in length should be given to the specified license to perform the same operation on ships 15 meters, or less, in fulfillment of other requirements of the law and minimum run time requirements as stated in Regulation. This aims to ensure that the change in law will not be unduly burdensome to rights experienced on ships. Be to those with the required number of seaway times, which will be added in the Regulation to grant the rights of a ship with a length of 15 meters or less. A respectable president. Here I have explained the basic contents of this bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u61	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 361, No. 318. It consists of a bill to correct the transformation of various food laws, simple regulations, food resources, and EU rules. The bill is written at the Ministry of pro and innovation. Its motive is first to simplify a food chain policy, secondly set up the Food Fund and third, to implement the Council Regulation and Council of 2017/625. According to the Government Treaty Pronunciation, Independence Party, and Left Company, a green bid for government cooperation and for the procreation of the Generalis, it is stated that there will be effort in a simple rule for the sake of employment and the public. By means of this reference, the bill suggests that no law will be dismissed. 55/1998, on marine products, and on law No. 96/1997, on slaughter and slaughter products. It is considered not to have special requirements on food production mentioned above but to value food law. 93/1995. The bill assures us that special regulations that apply to marine products as well as slaughtering and slaughtering products will be accompanied by slight changes to simplify their diet law. As a result of these changes, the food chain structure becomes simplified, leading to a more consistent, more efficient, simpler, accessible, and more continuous system for both industry and the public. In addition, changes have fallen to promote even more food security and improved consumer protection. The bill also suggests a simple practice for fish companies who are underpriests, so that fishing permits on the basis of a law on the control of fish fish will be in force for the registration of the Food Organization. This includes the burdensome requirement for the publishing of the above food companies. A respectable president. With Parliamentary Reunion No. 40/149 on the food safety and protection programme, the government was assigned to implement various measures aimed at promoting food security, ensuring protection of livestock stocks, and improving the competitiveness of domestic food production. These measures include setting up a fund with emphasis on the growth of innovation in domestic food production, which would be combined with the AVS Research Fund in the marine water and the Agrienvironment Fund. The reference to the above - mentioned synonym is made with the bill to set up a new fund with the role of strengthening the growth of valuables, production, production, and the marketing of food from agriculture and marine exports. It's called Food Fund. The bill suggests a law on the Manufacturer's Fund of Agriculture, No. By the end of 2020, 89/1966, the fund will be cut off, but it will work all that year. The same goes for the AVS. This will be the first year of the Food Fund in 2021. provisional regulations on the law recommend management of the Food Fund in the implementation of the law and that the government should prepare its activities, including setting a course for it. This allows more time to prepare the fund, but when it is actually started working with my Ministry's policy. Some of the cohesive effects of operation result from the combination of these funds. The AVS fund is 216 million. K. a donation from a government fund under the budget of 2019 C.E., which is under the law on the control of fish fishing for about 20 million. K. every year. years. The product fund has 134 million. K. A profit from a government fund under the budget of 2019 and the cost of each fund is about 20 million. K. This is a year, but apart from that, if the funds combined, the joint lung space in support of the fund is to be expected to be about 320 million or more. K. of these donations. Also look for ways to increase funds for the new fund. Food companies are a major product of fermentation, and there are many examples of effective interracial cooperation. A well-organized innovation and development fund, focusing on the development and implementation of food from agriculture and marine sources, supports this and contributes to the improved use of resources for further development in this field. Provided support may contribute to the cooperation of an investigator with an enterprise that can create new valuables. So there is hope that with the establishment of the new fund, we can move ahead in this regard. A respectable president. The subject of the bill is one of the factors involved. The implementation of Council Regulation and Council Regulation 625/2017 from March 15, 2017, on official monitoring and other public activities aimed at ensuring that the law on food and food and the health and well-being of animals, plant health and plant protection products are used, and for the change and breakdown of many of the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council, as well as the directives and decisions of the Council. It should be noted that the Regulation applies to Iceland, with the exception of the regulations for living animals, other than fish and farm animals, and animal products, such as except egg, embryo, and sperm. The objective of the Regulation is to transfer follow-up decisions from other regulations to one Regulation that contains all the food chain monitoring measures as a whole. This leads to harmony between ethnic groups and safe food monitoring as well as simplicity. The implementation of the Regulation will include improvements in the integrated food chain monitoring systems, increased transparency and the responsibility of the competent authorities by providing information on the structure and results of monitoring. In addition, the aim of the Regulation is to establish a structured and streamlined policy on the European Union's integrated legislation on official monitoring and other public activities within the food chain. By incorporation of the Regulation into Icelandic, the regulations for import and export will be continuous, complete and simpler. At the same time, the process involves more flexibility in the practice of laboratorys, more intensive processes, and more intensive monitoring for which companies and monitoring agencies will benefit. It is also the purpose of the Regulation to ensure that the official government of the European Union is in accordance in its activities, in its institutions, in its systems and measures to ensure that regular food activities are being carried out. Among the main changes proposed by the bill, it should be noted that official monitoring should generally be carried out without a prior report. The directive is set to maintain the effectiveness of official monitoring and to make it more specific because such monitoring is considered more likely to meet its targets if this is not reported in advance. It is then suggested that a state-of-the-art authority be established for the official organisation to take a sample from a product that is offered for sale on the Internet or by other telecommunications items without announcement of the sample until the official surveillance agency has received the vision in its possession. By doing so, the official Rapporteurs are authorized to obtain a sample with reservations anonymously. It is also suggested that the decision to make a penalty for violations of dietary regulations and to adjust the monitoring of food, food production and seed products should be allowed to determine a fine from the economic benefits of a food company or as a proportion of the quality of it if a violation is committed by deceitful or misleading commercial practices. Icelandic law must be modified in accordance with the regulations of the Regulation, but the bill does not exceed the minimum law of the company. The law is expected to take effect on December 14th. On that day, the European Commission will accept Regulation No. 625 from 2017 levels in the European Union and it is important to be in force in the EFTA countries at the same time. A respectable president. I've traced the main points of this bill, and I want to refer in other respects to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his story on this bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers only concerning this transition in relation to the Food Fund to start and in the context of the Agricultural Fund. I don't know if I understand it correctly, a minister will correct me if I am wrong, regarding a petition called between peasants and state, which I understand should have been in a reexamination process now, that it doesn't even stand to revise these things: let's say that there won't be this review of a frame deal. Is it possible, then, to take the Manufacturer Fund out of a frame deal and transfer it to this Food Fund? I thought about that position where this agreement between state and farm applies to 2026 and in an Annex I in a frame deal, it's clear and puts it in place. What I'm curious about is whether or how a minister intends to handle it. If the suspect I have is justified, it would be helpful to have the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u63	A respectable president. About the Food Fund I've heard these voices. The other day, I was meeting with the Coalition Board. Clearly, there are conflicting views. This view of the frame deal came out, but I haven't heard that it doesn't stand to revise it. The reexamination of agricultural contracts is in a legal process, and this work is led by Haraldur's son Benediktsson and Brynh of Pétursdóttir's daughter. There is now a review of the Frame Convention. The farm contract may not want to be revised to some of the farm leaders, but then it's a reexamination of the farm agreements, I say. I am, as I explained to the Bavour Association Board, to work on a resolution and approval of the Generals. I am bound to do so, and the Council voted by 47 agreements to set up this fund. Farmers may have some opposition, but I think it is based on a certain misunderstanding, and people haven't read it well enough with the bill. It's been just how this fund's supposed to build up. He's to be shared. In particular, the report says that special attention should be given to new policies to support agriculture so that the percentage exchange of funds for this sector will be comparable. I can't figure out who ghosts are, some of them who, I'm not accusing you of it. A senator of that, trying to pull up here on the walls, I guess those who want to sit at their place they've got from the Manufacturer Fund. But I encourage all who have this exchange of words to learn of the exports of the agricultural fund, they are very palatable, and I suspect that they are not all as planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u64	A respectable president. I'm not going to take into account the provision of the product fund of agriculture that I've so far considered to have worked by just the rules it's given. The question I raised at the highest. The minister was this: If the decision not reached in the review of a frame deal, then what will be the situation? Now I make it clear that it is not a wish for what it says whether this will work or not. This is just fine, and as a minister of food funds came along, he will be divided and such and I don't have a major concern about it, but what I'm worried about, and now the Minister has clearly heard the same voices as I do about the frame deal, it's about that if you don't reach the conclusion of the Convention, this is the way about the Food Fund is in chaos. V.E.G. A minister entered earlier that if all treaties are not checked at all, these four contracts - a review of a sheep contract is completed, a review of the cattle contract is just over, we have after the gardening and a frame deal -- then all of them are upset. There's new news for me. I have so far understood that each contract is revised and not bound to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u65	A respectable president. I can't figure it out. I think that these thoughts are strange to me about what happens if the frame deal is not revised. It's working on it, and I don't see any reason for it except that it's over, and if another contract party doesn't want to continue, that's just the conclusion. However, I have to correct myself, the support of the Senate resolution with the Action Programme was much deeper and stronger, with 54 votes in agreement. I'm just saying, as it is, I'd appreciate it if the other member of the contract doesn't want to respect the strong and rich will of the Icelandic Council of taking up a law on the Production Fund, which is building up since 1966, long out of place, and not in harmony with what's going on. I'm just going to mention one thing that's in the process of building food policy for Iceland, interpolitical work for Prime Ministers. Should we not take some consideration of what is inside, preparing for the changed vision and the future? Yeah, that's what I'm saying. But some may see an opportunity to keep this old system intact. I'm not in that place. I can't believe they're planning to go there. I just can't believe it. If we need something in this regard, it is that we can adapt our activities and emphasize the views and emphasis of the government that exist and in the foregrounds at any given time. I am happy to have a team in 54 members of the United States on the task of renovating the way we work on these funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u66	President. I'm going to risk a little cutting down the same knee as a little dog. A senator and a chief. Minister done earlier. I hope to the highest. A minister won't be as happy with me as I thought he was in some comments earlier. I was going to correct a minister, but he did. I think it's important to draw it out as high as possible. A minister made the wide support of this council resolution received in June, and that is not long ago. We were here a lot of people who welcomed the strategy very, even talked about some kind of breakthrough for Icelandic agriculture, that we were taking a big step here. It's like the highest. The minister correctly introduced the matter to the support of all voters, agreed. I don't say, Mr. President, but inside we were quite high and many. That is why it is important to keep in mind when it comes to this matter. We are actually taking the next step toward that approval. Let's do it. Let us examine these matters, of course, and take into account any anxiety that people may have. Often, if things have been in a certain way for a long time, they worry about change. The way to calm them is to talk to people properly and explain that they will be there. Despite their approval in the summer on what this population is, it is normal to wonder. The product fund is included in other contracts, such as a livestock contract and a frame deal, as it has been established. It's very natural for people to wonder what they mean. Is this what will be changed? It's important to keep in mind that I know two things. V.E.G. A minister came into part of that earlier. This new fund was specifically laid down in the Action Programme to ensure that, as with the highest degree, it would be guaranteed. A minister came in earlier, saying that the percentage split of funds to this sector will be comparable to what is now. This means that according to the Action Programme, we should have a proportional switch from this fund, as is currently the case between sectors. That's where the division is the highest level. The minister came in. The other is the current policy development that is already under way in the report, i.e. that the fund pursues a number of years at a time, with a steady view of the money split in order to be comparable. The current strategy will be developed in collaboration with Iceland's National Association and the European Community of the European Union. So I think it's pretty powerful here at all levels that those who come up with these funds today or they fall or are able to apply to them, are involved in policy-making of the new fund. It has been established in Congress resolution, and here it is said in a paper, a legal solution, that the percentage change between sectors will be as it has been, and policy is initiated by the introduction of the total sectoral organisation. Some may have some concerns, but it's, as I say, only human, if people are accustomed to something and think they've worked. I'm not going to have an opinion on how the Production Fund has worked or what it's made. For some reason, we have him in our contracts over and over again, which means that we have looked to him as a controlling device or support tool that worked. So I don't think it's unusual for people to ask these questions. The same way when you look at the size of the two sectors. It is not unusual for some to wonder: Is the major industry going to swallow them up in this fund? But just in order to face these concerns, we have a plan of action, and in the same way, this fund is specifically divided to the point of view. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I'm not going to get this case into my table, because I'm not gonna sit on my ass any more. A professional health committee, but, of course, it will continue to feel the same way. But I think this bill is the highest. Minister to fulfill the will of the General Assembly, as agreed in the Action Programme. We need to remember that we do it as best we can and it seems to me that we're going to end there and remind us that when the plan of action was adopted, we'll welcome the proposals that were within the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-04-26.u67	A respectable president. I thank you for the answers and for the discussions that have taken place here. I'm not hung over this, I just want to get back to work. The fatigue moves you forward. There's definitely an opportunity for a certain failure. Men may have lost some of their time, not met the new demands that have been carried out in this regard. When you take care that the funds inside this particular fund are only about that. 134 million and a part of that money is used to finance government agencies, I say: Is it best for farmers and their productions? I have doubts about that. Let's go through it and check it out. Let us associate with other aspects of the government that are being pursued after the public purchases of food. Can we link this up better? Is it possible for us to link the focus of the food policy into the process that is being developed, and hopefully one on either side of the year to provide food in the field of agriculture? I have no doubt that this is possible and good. I believe that this is what we are just getting ready for other priorities. When you look, for example. the plan of action, as it is available in all 20 teams, or a god knows how many they were, is the first time the Parliament has agreed on a longer time strategy to support Icelandic agriculture. It's fine, it's very pleasant and good. I think we will do many good works in this field according to the formula given at the council resolution. I remind the senator that I will soon report on the progress of that program. I'm sorry to hear that. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has been unable to work within the network of the employment committees. I meant him as an excellent teamwork while he was there, but I know that he will only be with us in spirit and other works and strive to do good things even better. It's nice to know about other committees. I expect this case to become progress and can provide even more strengthening support for Icelandic agricultural production.
