ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u1	A respectable president. I want to talk about the positive things happening on Southnes. Southnes have strengthened their position by means of the town of Southnes. There the council needs to come and help with the harbor so that a fishing ship can operate there. Smokejanestown's debt balance is reduced to 140%. What a joy this is for all of us, and especially for the inhabitants of the community that has suffered a great debt in recent years, but they have also had good insides! A respectable president. It is important that the construction of Istavia at the Keflavour Airport continues, that despite the events that have occurred during the flight, it will continue. The situation had become a dilemma, and although there is now a temporary space at the airport, there will soon be a tight squeeze in it, and the delay will increase. The building is of utmost importance. There is also an important structure ahead for the development of the Keflavour Airport, Kadeco, in a so - called airport town or Airport City. There are the organizational issues and other activities that must be worked out with the communities in a very important way. The Keflavor airport development community is and may become an extremely important addition to rural development in the development of the airport area. It is also very important for the area of the mackerel bill to be well paid, and the small boats that have kept up their jobs in Southnes during the summer. It has approximately Two hundred people have been able to win mackerel in the summers in Southnes, and this is of utmost importance. Vallarists abandoned hundreds of people. They offered most of them part - time jobs back, and this has been no longer possible. I was hoping we'd see it too at the Freest, despite a setback in the sails, when she quit 20 people. [[The president calls.]] They did not have the courage to stay out with a lot of people who had been working under intense pressure for a very long time. [[The president calls.]] But when space is formed, they would have needed more courage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u2	Mr. President. Benedikt Jóhannesson, former secretary of finance and head of Upholds, is a powerful center of society. He wrote an article in the Morning newspaper that I think is my business here. Benedikt points out that one of the most powerful technologies of politicians is to point to an enemy and create fear. The enemy may be a real person, a nation, a disease, or even an idea or an object. This brings to mind international treaties, foreign people, and all kinds of people, women's own rights, and energy packages. This is certainly not necessary when that methodology is used to compromise or when logical reasons are needed to assume that it will, simply that it may be, or may become, the case. Since most people are wise but do not take the time to study every subject, it is easy to promote suspicion and yes - even fear. Perhaps for the day's occasion: After this, we will not discuss laws that will lead to one day's sin of a foreigner up to the southern coast of Iceland in a diving suit with an electric cord and to connect with a written warrant from the European Union. Benedikt, in his article, cites examples of politicians and groups who have been successful in using such technology. True, they are more, and most people share the agreement to get a drop - score in the history of the court. That's good and good. It would be much better if that drop score were given as soon as we need to find ways to do so with the interests of Icelandic society in mind. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u3	A respectable president. Recently, I have been thinking about the concept of freedom, which seems to be a complex and mysterious term in a Icelandic vocabulary, usually with less experience. It seems to who what it is, etc. But most of the time you hear in your conversations with the Icelanders talking about that the Icelanders are so liberal, that they are such a free people. I object, Mr. Honorable President. Icelanders are not liberal. Iceland is not a free country. We have two things that we can boast about, in fact, only less and less these days, must be reimbursed, and that is homosexual equality and rights. There we are, or we have done, going to have to spit our palms back there. We're losing the competition. Possession everywhere else is freedom of some kind of foul language, some kind of disaster. As soon as you start talking about freedom of expression, the first thing that happens during the conversation is that the person begins to list all the important reasons why it needs to be controlled and this, and maybe it can start to talk about what freedom is. But if we are to be a liberal nation, if we are to be a liberal people, we must adopt the attitude that freedom is a baseline one that does not require underlying justification, just as life or happiness, something that we admire from the heart, down to the foundation. We do not have to justify anything in particular. As with everything else in life, restrictions may be needed, but this is not the first thing we try to do. It should not be the first thing that comes to mind. We're supposed to want our freedom. We're supposed to reduce our limits. I find this particularly prominent in the discussion of freedom of expression. I remind you, you can't just do the national singing in a different but original form, that's just the way it is supposed to be. At some point, some prime minister was irritated. That's the way Icelanders are. Freeness, certainly not, a respectable president. We should change that. It'll change here first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u4	Mr. President. I made a decree for the council yesterday, along with members of Congress from the United States of Germany, the United States, Canada, France, and the United Kingdom, to investigate the attitudes of people in Germany, Canada, France, and Britain on the continuing fishing of our Icelanders on a whale. The synoptic proposal does not consider the impact of whaling on the sale of other products from Iceland. What effect does this have on our valuable marine products or on the arrival of tourists to Iceland? After the completely incomprehensible decision made by a sea chief to start fishing for long periods of time, it is only natural to examine this important sign. We are the only land in the world authorized to fish for long periods of time, and it is totally incomprehensible. I'd like to be able to quote the good newsletter not so long ago, which says: ▪ Do you feel that a decision as controversial as it is when Iceland's reputation in foreign lands is on such a weak basis? Iceland has hit the sky in recent years, especially by social media. As a result, we have valuable brands - signs that need to be closely associated at a time when only an important community member can put great business interests at risk instantly. It is written as a result that Lewis Hamilton, the rider, published a report about whaling. I am fully aware that this matter is controversial and should most likely silence it. We find the issues that are difficult within the government to push them slowly aside. Nevertheless, I would like to encourage the Department of Employment to go to this survey. I know I can't get this council mishap on the program, but the Ministry may take its own initiative to examine this attitude and look at it so that we can map exactly what interests are at stake, because there are rich interests at stake. For animal protection as well as for our market interests in foreign countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u5	Mr. President. There is much we can do to cope with climate change. In this context, it can be used to include Reminds us that the government's work programme says that black oil has a phase to go out, and in a government contract, it aims to ban the use of black oil in Iceland's economic legal history. For the next week, Marine Environment Development Committee will be held in London, but it is important that Iceland's representatives follow Iceland's course firmly, especially when the amount of carbon dioxide in the air went for the first time from the start of measurement of more than 415 million shares. Mr. President. Otherwise, I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to call attention to EEA's work Green Developments, which may be pleasant to attend to. The purpose of the project is to promote the eco-friendly administration of the State and reduce environmental impact. The work is simple, and all government institutions are to be involved. It contains a green account that collects details on how to shop the Agency. By taking such progressive records, institutions can become more aware of the bought quantity and nature of purchases and thus set a measurable goal of reducing their use and reducing their carbon footprints. For example, on the cover of the project, there are some fascinating information, which was used by the General General for the highest amount of hot water on the set but unbelievable, but the case was true only in third place on paper in the same year. Mr. President. This is a model project, although I would like to see it go further and put more accurate information on carbon emissions from purchased goods and services as well as on carbon prices so that those in the institutions can identify the actual cost of emissions. Sadly, there are only 66 federal institutions of over 160 participants in the project, and I would like to encourage the directors of the non-particles to right it up as soon as possible and to do so with full force. To reduce waste emissions, all of us need to do our part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u6	V.E.G. President. I'd like to come into the air language a little bit, as was the case often before. I was on the platform here discussing these matters first on April 26, a little over a year ago, making them the subject of a talk on a plane policy that is in desperate need of Iceland's government. This is one of the nation's largest exports. For answers, the highest. Secretary of state and transportation. The answers were that much too little would have been done for too long and that it would not be a place to sit. Yet nothing has been done. I repeated this request on October 9, in connection with a discussion on the transport plan and on the same path. The schedule has not seen the day, and as far as I'm next to the Environment and Transport Committee, it will be delayed, at least until the fall. It enables us to see that safe and sound infrastructure is the key to the plan. If so, it will not be easy to remember at least in three cases within the last 24 months, an emergency situation has occurred in Iceland due to a situation on the national spare airport. The use of a fitting guide, ◯Performance based on the use of English language, is not being used by the president. ELTS has not been installed in Greenland. Despite the fact that these are ideal people who are both ready and willing to do their job, a living room is unfavourable and ill - equipped to handle these matters. The people simply can't do this work unless money comes up and heads for the government. There is no direction and leadership in this case, and I now advertise it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u7	Mr. President. On this occasion, I would like to respond a little to comments in a talk. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, who was caught in the whales of the Icelanders. I think it is proper for us to keep up with the discussion that the decisions made by the Icelandic government to allow fishing to be based on a solid scientific foundation. The species authorized to hunt are in no way at any risk. It is also clear that Iceland has always maintained its national rights to use this resource in the same way that other resources in the country and in the jurisdiction of the country. I think it's important to keep it up. The only thing I can say in a talk. Of course, we need to evaluate the status of our country on markets, business interests, and so forth. There we can look at currents and trends in neighboring countries or in our major business countries. We too need to look to experience. I must say, after being in this hall for a long time, soon 16 years, I have regularly heard world forecasts about the commercial interests of Icelanders, both for exporting and travel services for decisions we've been taking in the fields of whales. I have not seen any evidence that whaling had that effect or that the world's forecasts that have repeatedly been uttered to us members of the council for various reasons and in connection with whaling had come up or was evidence of support.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u8	Mr. President. We just got a new economy, and it's worse than the economic forecasts on which the government's budget is based. Change must be made. The plan will return to the council for a second time. and before that time, the government will have to have its proposed changes. The budget as it was already the highest. It is recommended by the secretary of finance and the secretary of the economy for which the government's financial policies are well cared for. Right away. Councilmen and even individuals of the highest rank. Ministers have expressed themselves about the reaction to the down cycle here in the conference hall, and in the media, they often mention the rest, now rife, or just about 30 billion, and may always be walked on. But it's not that simple, Mr. President. Government economicism is presented only once during each terms of terms, for five years or until a new government sets out a new policy. The financial policy is one of the most important contracts of the season. It involves commitment to how to implement government income and spending policies and under strict conditions for its review. It should only be revised if its core candidates are missing or predictable as a result of economic failures, national years, or other circumstances that are impossible to deal with with with with by means of available measures. So the government violates laws if it intends to walk on the rest in the present circumstances. It must either change the law before it decides to walk on the rest or respond to the pay and expenses on the state's side. Either cutting down or raising taxes. I challenge it. legislators to contribute more to resource expenditures and resource taxes than to allow them to have the subtraction that is most appropriate for government services and support, e.g. patients, elderly families, or children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u9	A respectable president. There are a number of cases presented by members of Congress. Today, 116 cases are still waiting. from all members of the council. The committee will also have 98 cases decommissioned. Some of these are repeated material. There are both cases that wait for 1st. who were almost ready for the hearing of a committee, perhaps needed a few more meetings to arrange for one or two guests. But the council was finished and cut into the Senate mood. A case that needs a little more to make sure that you don't even finish it in 1st. In this council, therefore, not all have found that matters presented at the beginning of a council, a matter of Congress, have not been found at the council. The issues presented in September have not been completed, at the beginning of the council. It's not yet completed that were submitted at a council meeting. There are many cases now waiting to escape the committee. They're ready to go on the committee. All the committee has to do is vote, yes or no, such as, at least to finish the case. Has the committee completed its release? the question is. She can't be answered. This is a variant of this political contracting bullshit that is not exactly related to objective treatment and professional treatment, but all related to some political rhythm and pulling on it who will receive some award for a great - or rather small one in this case. Because, as one has heard, among the conservatives at the council, their goal is to do as little as possible, and we do it by not doing anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. Gunnarsson He is actually in the very same place as I am now. I was just going to use the council to talk about the jobs. As a matter of interest, we senators were given time to bring a new case into the Senate yesterday, history, i.e. so-called senators. Worse, we were not allowed to hire ourselves, for example. what question we would choose because there had to be no doubt that it would not create unnecessary discussion or too long, trying to speed up the work at the council. The fact is, a group of people is carrying a synonym to the legislation of national legislation on the confirmation of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 93/2017 of change in IV. An appendix, to the EEA Convention, called the third energy pack. Our conviction is that this issue has grown to such an extent that it has something to do with the nation, whether the third energy package alone makes some spectacular changes from the previous, that is a secondary point, but the key step we are taking is that. In what way are we, what is the common food, and why in the world should the nation not have the last word to do so? I say, according to Section 4. the law on the execution of a national agreement shall be carried out at the earliest three months and at the latest one year after such a conquistador proposal has been introduced before the council. A respectable president. I'm determined that this is relevant to the nation. This is a huge case about our future. We'll talk about it today, and it looks like it's for who. Still, it's always fun if we get to have our views without being attacked, as if I don't know what. [[The president calls.]] So I ask all of us to show respect for one another during the following discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u11	Mr. President. Soon there will be an election for the European Parliament. These elections are of great importance to us Icelanders, as the European Union is our closest partner and shapes much of the Icelandic community due to the EEA Convention. Populism makes its mark on politics in Europe and thereby the election to the European Parliament. It is enough to remind you of one manifestation of plutonium, Nigel Farage, United Kingdom, the company of Matteo Salvini, Italy, and the five - star movement of Luigi Diio. The populism has also found its place in Icelandic politics, and has found an enemy and a threat in the form of the third energy package, the import of food, the EEA Convention, immigrants and refugees. Of course, all of this is at the instigation of evil elements that have their center at the European Union headquarters in Brussels. All such trends are dangerous and oppose the need for international cooperation, which aims to preserve peace and human rights on the basis of cross-border cooperation and to carry out tasks that are out of control by the national community alone. It is the task of liberal labor in Europe, as well as of this country, to kick at the feet and join hands to prevent the pilots from getting under it. I am moved to discuss this exactly today because after talking to the third energy package, which clearly highlights the way the populists work and do nothing in their language, leaving their arguments and facts in a light bed. Whether it is in Europe, the United States or Iceland, they have in common.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u12	Mr. President. This year the Council of Europe celebrates its 70th birthday and thus celebrates its European Convention on Human Rights. It's a big, important step. In Europe, human rights protection is nearing human age. I think it is easy to take the protection this covenant offers us for granted when it is so late that it was accepted. The European Court of Human Rights was set up a few years after the approval of the Convention and has preserved our human rights throughout the continent since then - and increasing in number. But today, the Council of Europe has a flash of light. There have been a lot of debates in the European Parliament over the continued involvement of Russia into the Council of Europe. They have not paid their membership fees to the Council of Europe for the past two years and have come to the European Council's law that they should not now be dismissed. This is extremely serious news for all citizens in Russia who rely on the protection of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Council and for all the important committees established by the European Council for the protection of human rights, democracy and the whole European Union. Many more important meetings are yet to be met in the European Council field. Of these, there is one who begins Friday, the Council of Ministers, the Council of the European Parliament. There our foreign minister will represent us. I would like to encourage him to continue the protection of the Council of Europe. I would like to encourage him to pay more money to the Council of Europe to offset the loss of Russia's departure. [[The president calls.]] And I would like to encourage him not to speak against the European Court of Human Rights, as some of his colleagues in the government have done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to make a statement today about the Gufldalian countryside, a so-called Chefs Forest, as we know it most of the time from our discussion. January 22, 2000. approved by the R.R.R.R.S.S.R.S.R.S.R., the so - called Y.H., by a new route through the Gufudal Squadron. We all know the discussion on this subject. This has been an amazing story of grief and a period of over two decades of grieving history. The country society is now taking a stand and putting this proposal into practice and is now working on its main organizational change and advertisement. I would like to draw attention to that date on April 11. was distributed here at the General bill for the implementation of a license due to the construction of the Vestjorðióttir. It worked out so slightly with the first missioner of the case, okay? paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, 1st. Witchest. , to report this matter's contribution, for it had been discussed many times in the Senate group of the district. Let it be between parts. What's interesting and I believe it is a reason to refer it to the President, but the one who is now sitting on the President's chair is one of the bill's carriers is that there are 19 members on the bill. Of these, there are 12 from the independent class and seven from the other categories. When I was in a foreign country, I was called after those who spoke with me and was too late to digest me. But I'm authorized to announce here that all members of the Central Party will support this case. I'll give it to myself that the two Ministers who are also council members of the Northwestern District will support the case as well as the two ministers of the Independence Party, which are not traders. There's 31 senators and they just need one man to secure more part of the case that would finally strike this knot that has lasted far too long, the people of the West, and all those who want to go there. [[The president calls.]] So I want to challenge the highest. The president is looking at this case, a bill for implementation as a result of the construction of the Western Road, to be scheduled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u14	A respectable president. Every morning, children are eager to go to the basic school of the country to learn for the future. By graduation from high school, they have spent about 65% of their lives preparing for future challenges. At least that's what we're going to do, but is that it? During the past decade, the world has been turned upside down by the many technological advances that are beyond its end. These changes affect the way we lead our lives. One of their most prominent manifestations is the smartphones, most of whom have become an integral part of daily life. Change has not only changed our lives, for there is hardly a industry that has not changed by technology. We are now spoken of as starting our career in the fifth industrial revolution in which there is an all - mask and artificial intelligence. By permission of the President: The government's financial program for 2019◯2023 emphasizes the need for the study to meet the best in other languages, thus creating an interest in Icelandic reality and Icelandic language. Mr. President. Education is the basis of international competitiveness and the importance that we change this landscape, build a policy and a vision for the education system, which ensures that generations following us get the best possible education available, a vision reflecting the changes of the fourth and fifth industrial revolution. Only in this way can we say that we are preparing our children for the future. So let's get together, take this step, and create future learning technology, our children, and all for the good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u15	Mr. President. In transport, energy exchange contains more than electrical energy on loaded generators, also known as built - in fuels. Power engines, fire machines that use metal, methadone, or biodisil. I'm going to use this opportunity to draw attention to a 43 - page energy minister reporting on domestic fuel production, because it is very important that we also take it into account because it leads to a lower import of fossil fuels and less carbon emissions on machines. Mr. President. I'm going to mention something else, climate change. They require adjustment of society and all kinds of counterworks that respond to its consequences. I believe that the state of government, rural society, the main expert organisations of action and control, the Sports Agency, the Road Building, the Human Invasion Institute, the World Health Organization, and the Agency should form a cross-cutting team with facilities and staff. He worked closely with the new climate advisers and the expert organisations, e.g. Weather Service. The role of the group would be to collect information on ways to adapt and counterweight, have perspective and management with tasks and teach as many as possible about positions and lead to adaptation to climate change. Such a group or advice is more valuable in my opinion than hiding the role of the climate Council alone, along with everything else that compromises its function. For example, if you have a powerful group that works against climate change, that work is controlled, and again another group that controls adaptation to climate change. Of course, they work closely together, but the projects are quite different. Then there are different people, especially in the field of performance, whether it's from rural society or state, and I mentioned it there to prove it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u16	A respectable president. I recommend to members of the Committee on Health Organization (SEC), which will apply to the year 2030. This committee has been given a detailed discussion of the subject and has been contacted by many guests, and a number of reports were received that have been discussed. Health policy guide to the year 2030 is a safe and efficient health care environment in Iceland. The course is extensive and is designed to set the overall vision of the health system. Therefore, major aspects of the policy are affected but are expected to be implemented with the five-year action programme, which will be submitted annually by the health secretary. The committee covered the matter in a total of 12 meetings and got a number of visitors. It was noted that although there was a disagreement about its content, it would be proposed by a general agreement with the stakeholders and health experts in the medical system. The comments given were primarily to indicate that certain aspects of the health care programme were not performed sufficiently below the head. It should be noted that there is little publicity in the policy of services to the elderly and the activities of nursing homes as well as prevention and public health. It also came to the view that there may be a lack of publicity about the role of the Hospital in Akureyri as a teaching and research hospital and the contact of health care institutions and other clinics than a university hospital in education by health care professionals. The majority take into account the observations made and the points mentioned above. A greater part, however, feels that it is necessary to put the above discussion in context of how the policy is defined. The synonym will discuss the future vision of the health system until 2030 and the policy that will be set toward that vision. In view of the greater part, it can be said that the target line of a series of actions to be carried out until 2030 without specifically specifying these actions. Based on the policy plan, the greater proportion of the initiatives are assigned to submit a five-year programme, which will be reviewed annually and discussed at the General Assembly. However, in chapter 3 of this report it is not strongly explained that policies alone, without planning, are not expected to increase costs or otherwise affect extrahealthcare providers, sexual equality, environment and sustainable development. The more part of the development naturally means that there is a limited amount of improvement in specific areas of health care; rather, the clearance point of policy development and the overall organization is to be discussed. Therefore, in view of the way the policy is presented, the greater part is not a reason to add to it a more specific discussion of the subjects of the elderly, prevention and rehabilitation but to emphasize and direct it to the Ministry of Health to take a clearer perspective than is currently established by policy-making policies for these procedures. A respectable president. Then prevention. The review of the Committee showed that there is a lack of views on prevention and public health that should be the basis for all health care. That's what we agreed on. In view of the greater part, public health and prevention of the cornerstone of the good health system are emphasised. The majority of the items account for the a-complex 2 mg. According to the proposal, there will be global health care and public health work, focusing on health benefits and prevention as part of all medical services, especially on health care. In view of the greater part, this presentation will not be understood by any other than the fact that public health is pervading the whole course, although not directly referred to it. This is also shown in section 5 of chapter 4 for active users that the direction of the event category will include: that everyone has access to practical and sound health information that makes it easier for them to pursue a healthy life - style and remain healthy. The majority of these focus particularly on the implementation of a health policy programme strongly emphasising public health with emphasis on prevention and rehabilitation for all age groups in order to reduce the incidence and severity of life-style diseases and improve quality of life. It is time to take part in the proper service in the right place. The committee reviewed three points from the final release of the Parliamentary decree to be given in chapter 2 on proper service in the right place. These points will be discussed in a report on policies for Icelandic health care until the year 2030, submitted as a follow-up for the proposal. This is the following heading for the year 2030: 1st The role of the Hospital in Akureyri as a teaching hospital and a secondary and third - degree health care provider for designated health institutions has been defined and strengthened. 2. National Hospital has organized cooperation at a university hospital in other parts of the North countries on high-tech services that cannot be provided in this country. 3. Hospitalisations will be useful for patients who require treatment at this stage of service and can be discharged without delay after treatment has been completed. The majority count these three factors to improve the whole course. Then, the more part shows that several points in the review of the Akureyri Hospital depend on a lack of coverage of future policies for the hospital, but there would be some improvement in this further. It also points out that these points are discussed in the Parliament's arrangement for making a more thorough account of them. Adds the extra part to add these three points to policy development, but with a slightly altered design for cooperation with a university hospital in other countries. The Committee reviewed that this point should not include a physical change in the provision now that Iceland's health insurance is looking for agreements to purchase health care from foreign university hospitals. Rather, that service is being given in the organized procedure of land hospitals and the local institutions of the country. A U.S. Hospital organizes professional cooperation, but health insurance is good for the negotiations. The majority suggest that Health and Landspians have organized the work together to ensure both the access of health - care professionals and the experts who will pay for it. In addition, the same section discusses the availability of health care. Although the objective of the section may be identified to prevent technical interference in the health system, a detailed discussion on this aspect of the report is lacking. In chapter 7 the target is that the access of national health care and services specialists will be balanced by remote health care services and well-organized medical transfers. The majority stress that technical barriers to access are limited as possible. In this regard, the greater part shows that many parts of the country are people who have to travel long distances to attend needed health care. It is not enough to look only for travel costs, but it should be noted that the patient often needs to take time off from work, as well as that of his or her employees who often have to pass on their own expenses. It is also necessary to ensure that technical export of distant health care services does not produce unnecessary systematic obstacles and that the country does not differ in its access to that service. Therefore, directs the more part to the Ministry of Health to see if it is not necessary to define remote health care more closely in the health care laws to ensure that the services will be legally granted to all who need them. Then the committee has also discussed the affairs of emergency services outside the hospital. However, on May 7, the Parliament's resolution was adopted at the General Assembly. According to the Ministry of Health, the procedure of the Health Organization will highlight the outpatient management plan. A greater proportion of the rights are the importance of making a complete policy for the service, where the bioavailability of all citizens will be assured and will justify the importance of this interpretation. In this regard, the more part emphasizes the importance of renewing the ambulance complex, promoting education, re-education, and training of those who are involved in medical and emergency transport, and clearly specifying the responsibilities and operations of the service. This brings us to a new phase of health care. The 2nd chapter 2 of the synonym indicates that health care will be defined as primary medical care, i.e. Health care, a second - degree service of expertise outside a university hospital, and a third - grade university hospital. The review of the above stratosphere was under way. While this does not clearly appear in the synonym itself, it is further explained in the report that with the progressive change, the public will be able to discern which area to look within the medical system. The stifling process in the synonym is presented to include the service rendered at certain locations and directly to the public as the first site of the first service, which the patient will be referred to as second or third service as needed. It is not specifically defined when the service is a second degree and when it is a phase three. It can be expected that this will be based on an assessment of the technical complexity of the service. Strategies are not designed to limit services that can be performed in certain places around the country. Rather, technological advances that simplifyed the complex ministry of Phase 3 service can lead to a second degree of service. In view of this, the majority of the health care providers should be aware that health care is a chain of shared services and that the separation between them does not have to be so sharp that a person is in one place at a time. Thus, it is important that a person requiring a third degree of health care should also be able, in a simple manner, to, at the same time, to seek first or second degree of health care if necessary. The majority, however, cannot address the above spontaneous approach, pointing to several details that are unclear in the presentation of the Council's Reconception. The presentation is that no medical institutions other than the health clinic, which provides the first - degree service, and the university hospital, providing a Phase 3 service. The majority agree that a second - degree service is performed by specialists outside a university hospital. This service can be provided in private offices, clinics around the country and at the Land Hospital, which will be involved in the service as a district hospital, not a university hospital. Even so, in view of the greater part, the role of the district hospitals within the stairway, in terms of the third degree of service, especially where policy allows the Akureyri Hospital to become a part of the third degree of service, the policy for the hospital's role in Akureyri as a provider of second and third degree medical services for specific clinics will be defined and strengthened. The committee requested a medical memo that would further explain how the stepwise shift would be adjusted for the above mentioned issues. The memo even contains the same information. discussed how the policy would be considered in relation to the sources of the district hospitals and the Akureyri Hospital for the third degree of service. It says that professional reasons, safety of patients, and the practicality of the policy lie that a phase 3 health care services are provided at a National Hospital or in close cooperation with it. At the same time, a phase 3 service is not expected to be performed in other medical institutions. However, it is expected that certain services such as the administration of cancer or the follow-up of chronic blood tests can be performed in a local health facility, which may be discussed with the National Hospital or Hospital in Akureyri. It is thus assumed that a third - degree service will be performed at the Akureyri Hospital, only in cooperation with the Land Hospital. In view of the greater part, the above reference points are not given to the Akureyri Hospital as a third-class service provider. On the one hand, it seems clear from chapter 2 that giving a third - degree service is the role of a university hospital and not the role of others. However, the role of the Hospital in Akureyri is expected to be defined and strengthened by the hosts of that service. The majority feel that it is normal for a third service to be performed, or in close cooperation with, a university hospital. The Committee reviewed that much of the second service, despite the above, will also be rendered at a land hospital. To develop a policy on which a second service to be performed at a land hospital would require more than that, considering some factors. As the second - degree service is being extended at the National Hospital, there are also some necessary services to be applied locally, at district hospitals, or for independent specialists to be available only at the National Hospital. It is necessary to ensure that health institutions in the country and the experts working there have the opportunity to provide as many of the second degree of service so that inhabitants of the region do not always have to travel long distances to obtain such services. Consider, then, that not all areas where services are best developed. It is important that medical services develop in as many places as possible to add services to the health insurance, improve access, increase progress and quality in the most practical way. The majority point to the Ministry of Health that in the implementation of the programme the interests of the health care professional are put in place. The committee also discussed where the medical services provided in nursing homes, nursing homes, and living areas, as well as today, into the health system above. The committee reviewed the view that it might be difficult to define the service under a particular stage where users of the service may have the need for services at all levels. However, the services provided in general at relevant institutions may be considered to be a medical institution in the sense of health care. Therefore, the greater part would have to believe that the policy will be properly separated in such a way that services and nurses in nursing homes, nursing homes, and nursing homes, and today's institutions are primarily a first-degree service, although users of this service are always entitled to others for the second and third degree of service. The majority of the above views do not provide reasons for change beyond those mentioned above, although they could be clearly stated in the report. A respectable president. It is time for effective service costs. The majority stress that good health care costs will not only be taken into account but also in the foreground safety of consumers. In order to be included in the opening part 5 of this magazine, it is suggested that not only the acceptable purchases of services are to be done but also safe. This change is in accordance with the objective indicated in chapter 4. The same chapter 3 says that if priorities are necessary, patients with the greatest need and the worst standard of living will be put first. The review of the matter presented the view that priorities based on biographies not associated with the patient's need for health care were not consistent with other health policy objectives and 1 mg. 1st par. the management of health care services for all health care services, regardless of the economy. Thus, the majority suggest that the word become ▪ and the worst standard of living be put away. The proposal is submitted in consultation with the Ministry of Health. This suggests more than a few technical changes that do not have a material significance and do not need explanations. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the matter will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is signing this opinion in advance. Halldóra Mogensen was absent from the case, but literature has been found as a warrant for this in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The following members of Parliament are signed by the committee: Director Halldóra Mogensen, the one standing here, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Jónsson Ingi, Arna Lára's Jónsdóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I've been down here in the middle of a lot of places, and I've been going over the committee's opinion or not in general, and I've read it all. It's extensive, but I think we've done quite well. It has been observed that this policy is like this - sometimes talking about 30,000 feet, this would be an umbrella policy where a plan of action would further define the work of health care, which would be performed every year since Minister. We think it's important. That is why we decided not to go to certain things specifically, but we thought that we touched on a number of issues that have been presented in the reviews and especially the role of the Hospital in Akureyri that we wanted to underline and are important and hopefully it got through. Many reports were received, and the frequent arrivals were in touch with the situation, and I hope this has yielded to an improved policy. Even if this piece is ten years old and we're going to go after it's going to be a little bit alive, so we can always renew our policy and improve it when something new comes up. We thought we were strengthening it, so I'd only mention the landscape, that it was clear that everyone had access to service, and that we would fit in with it, for example. with increased telecommunications and emergency services, the need to be strengthened. Since there are health - care services in many countries that are falling, such as birth care and other assistance, it is necessary to make sure that the patients are able to move from place to place. In telecommunications, we emphasized that such services would not be prevented by some special access control, and this would help to reduce the amount of access to such technology, as well as by the health care that is available in all provinces and nearly all rural areas, to be the first degree of service that all are welcome at all levels of the case. I think it's very important, because the aim of the health policy proposal is spoken of the right service at the proper place and of the presupervised people. I don't think I'll talk about it anymore for now, but I hope the proposal is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u17	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal to be convened on health policy to the year 2030. In terms of the memory of the part, it is necessary to use private resources to implement measures in a practical way and to be maintained in the same way as sent out by the cost analysis of targets. Private health care is, in fact, public. On the basis of contracts with Iceland's Health insurance and health status, it is all too much to focus on a land hospital as the only high-tech hospital in Iceland. The hospital is far too heavy to handle, and much distranslation is made in terms of funding to it. It is undesirable, therefore, that the Landspians will be funded by DRG payments, which would allow a miscalculation to become a very serious situation in other health institutions. The minority points out that there is no discussion of rehabilitation, nursing, extramarital services, public health, prevention, nursing, and mental health. There is also a lack of trends in innovation, development, technological progress and quality and success assessments. The Commission then presented the view that there was a lack of publicity on the role of the Hospital in Akureyri as a university hospital. The Akureyri hospital has just won an ambitious policy of organized and advanced scientific work and will most likely have the opportunity to meet the demands made to university hospitals. The smaller portion cannot agree with a policy in which the Landspians are expected to become the only university hospital in the country. In addition, the lesser part agrees with what is stated in the review of an older citizen's national Union, to respond to an enormous increase in older citizens, who are expected to become the next few years. You need community service and home care. Is it reasonable that their government is subject to one administration, not by rural society and the State? An independent policy must be taken to build a nursing home in order to meet the need for service in the years to come. The role of active users and the benefit-risk centres of patients in the healthcare system must then be enhanced. These include Iceland's Cancer Society, U.S.A., Hoffnysta, NEFI, Active, Brave Power, and others. More effective consultations have to be made with them, and they follow up on real measures. The lesser part suggests that the responsibilities of healthcare professionals should be further explained, and it will be clearly stated that the rulers have knowledge and experience in the field of health care. It is important that the role and responsibilities of the hospitals be well defined so that a solid basis rests on the coordination of services. Based on the proposed modification proposal, the requirements for the management of health institutions are clearly set out. The minority agrees with what is stated in the reference work by the Icelandic domestic physicians to ensure that the responsibilities of the health institutions of the country to the people will be well defined and that it is clear where, when, and what services to perform. The minority suggests that these items will be added to Article 10 of chapter 1 of the policy. The lesser part emphasizes that all the people of the country are entitled to their own family physician. In order to ensure that health care is available throughout the country, a growing number of home physicians and a growing number of other health care professionals need to be provided. If health care is indeed to be the first site of medical care, it must be handled with care and respond to the increased demand for physicians with a broad background of knowledge, e.g. in service to the elderly and disabled and in order to strengthen various social services projects. (b) How can we be sure that God's Kingdom is near at hand? The education of family doctors has become useful to many aspects of society. For health care to be able to cope with other countries, home doctors must be about one third of all physicians and are proposed to be one of the policies of a new health policy. In addition to providing a policy that ensures the basis for health care throughout the country. The minority suggests that construction projects on the Land Hospital at the Ring Road will be reviewed and the construction projects at the Akureyri Hospital will be completed with a good position to provide high - tech services. The situation of the district hospitals will also be strengthened by increased emphasis on expert services. Then word - change is suggested to ensure that the Hospital in Akureyri can achieve its goal of becoming a university hospital. Patients in the foreground and staff progress. The smaller section 3 suggests that the name of the lower part will be changed to emphasize the presence of patients in a health care provider. It should also be noted that in addition to the use of all healthcare professionals, patients should be excluded from a single stage to another degree and that patients often need to be maintained at the same time at all levels of health care. A clear policy regarding remuneration within the medical system must be established so that similar pay will be paid for similar activities in which education, responsibilities and performance are taken. Only in this way will the pay and other healthcare providers be more emphasised. Effective service purchase. The minority suggests several adjustments in chapter 5 of the Parliament's resolution. It is suggested that the 2nd will provide health - care providers with the needs of the population in each area. It is then suggested that prior management of the health system should be made up of both, the medical need for health care and social need, and to take into account the fact that national health care is not exclusive. The financial resources needed to care for this and to ensure that the financing system is based on public quality stations. Think for the future. The smaller section suggests a change in the 4th count, chapter 7 for a review of the role of health science funds to give strength to health science at all levels of health care. Thus, health science funds should be used to benefit health care at all levels provided by the health care and the access of the clinics and district hospitals as well as to support scientific research. According to the above, the lesser part suggests that the matter will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for her speech and would like to thank her for her cooperation at what time. A health committee to the work of health care. I don't think there's any secrets revealed that the Senator put in a lot of good ideas and affected much of his policy. But I do not agree completely with all that is expressed in the expectation minority mind of the senator. I sign the majority opinion. Maybe I'd especially like to ask a question last year. A senator in this business with the Hospital in Akureyri. The committee noted that it was generally expected, at least in large lands, sometimes called the patient's base, that millions of people would be running behind a university hospital. It would hardly be one place in Iceland, much less under the mass measurements. I'd like to ask: Isn't it really so that the expectation that the Hospital in Akureyri will be defined as a university hospital in particular, wishing there'll be a lot more people in the Big Akureyri area? Because the situation today is, in fact, that neither there are enough people living there nor there are operating enough specials until the hospital can be properly classified as a university hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much, and thank you for your cooperation. It's good to be useful, even when you're a majority of people. When we talk about the Hospital in Akureyri and the plans for it - certainly much less than the Landsaver located here on the south side of the country. But at the same time, I'd like to hold on to the fact that once we were more efficient in moving patients north, but today we're moving them all to Reykjavík. I have a request that I have submitted for a written answer about the cost involved, how much it costs to transfer all who need a service to Reykjavík. Even so, moving employees is much easier. I know an example in Akureyri that comes to form cancer doctors to minister to us there, and now they like to come north. I'm sure that if we thought back a few years, it was just a good distribution at the moment. What happened? I don't know what happened. But I'd like to argue that the trend now, and we're setting a course of years ahead, that if we really are going to insist on sending everyone to Reykjavík, I'd like to think about it a little over again and see if we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Just so they say there's no doubt in the mind. A senator to the Hospital in Akureyri. No one needs to be in here but to question my good feelings for the same agency. However, the fact is that there are fewer people in the recording field than perhaps enough for a university hospital, at least in my opinion. However, what I want to talk to you about is what I want to talk to you about. A later contort is the emphasis the senator puts on in chapter 3 in his opinion of leadership for success, i.e. the responsibility of your healthcare professional. She will wonder if she needs to be more specific. In many ways, I agree with this idea by reason. A senator says that it is worth at least one Mass to take one spin on that matter. But I wondered: " Is it not normal for that rotation to be done in health care professionals's law that it was then carefully examined, either by the Ministry or simply by some interested member of Congress, to be better at and more clear in health - care laws where the responsibility is, because we have heard some speculation about what is sometimes called a cohesive responsibility, or a foreign matter of responsibility, President, may not be more appropriate when patients try to get their rights in their service and perhaps those who have failed in service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u21	V.E.G. President. I'm pretty much at odds with what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. It's these responsibilities that are very important and what you can do, I don't want to say a song, it may need to get more involved. Now we're talking about this hat over a certain direction. Under these circumstances, the responsibility of the staff falls. What I'm primarily talking about is a clear distinction between whether it's a manager or whether it's a staff issue. We've heard stories about people who don't want to operate on certain organizations because they're not clear enough, as they are today, how they're going to handle something. So it is very important, and perhaps it is the way, to explain this more clearly in the law as a matter. A senator mentioned. But in my mind, it must be clear that rulers must be responsible for the agency under their control. The staff do their part, but the managers must have this primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u22	Last to answer is Óli Kárason Kállson, who. Tenth. Southwestern District... ÓlasonBergþór sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u23	A respectable president. Me and what. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson so often agrees that this is the most natural miscommunication. But if I start calling myself Óli Kárason Kállson, you may correct me. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the speech. The introductions quickly draw my attention where, with the permission of a president, the minority opinion says: ▪ In terms of the memory of the part, it is necessary to use private resources to implement practical measures and to be maintained in the same way as exported by cost analysis and targets. I think it's a reasonable approach to the Senator's office and I'd like to ask him why. A senator's opinion of too much focus is that everything is being directed into the Land Hospital in the form we know today. This, of course, is a conversation that has been quite a factor in the recent conference hall. I want to use this opportunity to ask you why. For example, if she is a member of a welfare committee member, whether her experience as a member of the welfare committee is that this is still a focus and is even clearer to the developments we know so well about discussions of replacement operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason foreman. It's good to get this right. It is true that in the introduction, I deal with a private person, a private business on the basis of an tender publisher, as we do in other activities where we have to be careful with each dollar. I see it this way that if we're going to put everything together on what I often want to call an overloaded Land Hospital, we're not really thinking about the practicalness of these things. Waiting lists are one thing, and waiting lists are different. I'm mostly thinking about the money we're actually wasting by putting patients in the most expensive resources in the country. I think it's remarkable in itself that it's the policy of continuing to do so. We have on the sideline of the Clinical View, which has been in the discussion for replacement operations, and we know the discussion that doctors and patients go abroad to take certain measures. We are familiar with the discussion about the cancer community, which suddenly does not deal with the follow-up of cancer patients. And it was, in fact, the Landsspians didn't even ask for it, but it was the Department of Health that said this was the case. We can also mention patients with mental disorders and addictions. These patients would have been better off within the S.A. So many things are taking. We're throwing money. We're losing money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. There are two things I can say for my part. I would have liked to have more time to prepare this discussion here today, but it's as if sometimes you'd like to be a little bit of a little bit of time. But in the first, I feel as if the senator's response to the fact that on the one hand the focus is still sharp in what we have sometimes called a Marxian health policy. On the other hand, the senator's experience is that humans - perhaps on the same occasion - do not try to minimize any waste that may become available in the system. But there is one more thing I wanted to ask why. A senator in. Now I'm obviously not on a welfare committee, but I think for those who watch and listen, it might be preferable to get a slightly better look at what I think is just a tip in the committee's opinion, that is, by permission of a president, which says in subheading 1. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: It is therefore undesirable for the Landspians to be funded by DRG (Diagnosis Related Groups, as it is called in English), as it would scaffold a very significant situation for other health institutions. It is likely to be especially looking to health centers in the country. I'd like to pray. For this is a point of particular consideration, for many health institutions in the country have to do so in ways that cannot be enjoyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u26	V.E.G. President. You see, it's something important. We can say that these DRG payments, called in English, by the permission of presidents, have been defined as a model of specific methodology followed and are in itself an excellent tool. Now, I don't want to say this isn't a good enough device, but what will happen if we bring this into a Land Hospital is that then the Lands Hospital will be able to count on all the boxes that will tell us they need more money to live up to it - because they went for all the boxes. That means it's the most expensive space. It is called a flow problem. While we have people in the hospital, who we would like to see in another place, they'd be shaking because of that, in every box. So the National Hospital will say, " We need more money because we have so many people. ' But if we were to think about it a little different, we'd take land hospitals out of parentheses in these DRG payments and say that there are other health institutions to enjoy this system, we might just think it all over again. That is why I emphasize that there is an error with other medical institutions, because the Landsspicians already have to appoint and cost all the professions that we think of. So this is somehow not good enough, as it is thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u27	Mr. President. This is where we'll discuss a second issue. Suggestion for a resolution on health policy to the year 2030. I think there's every reason to say thank you. The committee's prominent speaker. paritaprevir In this case, the belle of Halla's Kristjánsdóttir for her work and, in fact, the whole commission for the work that has to do with it. Contrary to what may be held in this case, the committee has actually done some work together, and all members of the committee have contributed well to the work being done. The discussion has shown that the committee received many reviews and many visitors. Many of these comments and comments, particularly from professional societies, and let us tell direct stakeholders, pointed to the lack of detailed information on their own policy issues. It would be to avoid making up enough details about nursing homes, that would not be so much talk about expert services, etc. At that time, the basic concept of health policy is overlooked that it is as seen from 30,000 feet, as it were. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir said so nicely earlier. The stage is covered with a wide lens, and policy is designed to cover long periods of time and years. Our health system is changing constantly. It has been observed that during the past few years, during the years in my previous field of service, there have been significant changes, e.g. ... absolutelyimportant. Because I've been in the field, like other members of the committee at night. A welfare committee, I see in many respects that it would be unwise to, in many respects, to encourage every aspect of it because it would put us out of the process of becoming either abstract or simply out - of - date in a very short period of time. So this way is gone. Thus, policy must not be too narrow if it is to be achieved throughout the entire period. The issues of older ones, prevention and rehabilitation are prominent in the comments of many and, indeed, also in the comments and discussions of the committee. The committee agrees that there is a particular need to be handled. And while this may mean some of the prejudices of aging, it may be expected that the elderly will be particularly disturbed by their own policies, especially by their health care or health policy, to think that older people need some other medical care than younger ones, there are special needs in these groups. For older ones, the need for health care and the need for social service is often intertwined. The need for housing support, etc. So the committee agrees. And in fact, the Ministry of Health has already agreed with this in its declarations over the past few weeks and months. Already the Ministry is working to give particular attention to policy in the affairs of the elderly. The minister has already requested specialist articles and reports on brain failure, etc. Whether to some extent there is a discussion within the committee or to the extent that it is merely a spirit being followed. shows up in the course of the policy, I don't know what to say. At any rate, this field is already under way. The committee spoke extensively about the importance that all the people of the country always have access to health care. In fact, this was shown in the previous words and in a talk. An authorityman that should not overlook that point and forget it. Therefore, factors such as telecommunications are specifically discussed, even though it is accurately expressed in the opinion of a smaller section of the Committee that, of course, distant health care is never replaced by standard health care. But it can really help. This is my confidence to say, since I am one of the health professionals who have worked in such a service. I know the benefits of such a service model, as it were, but I also know, and I realize fully that there can be obvious defects. Once started, work on one of the important factors in ensuring all citizens of the country access to health care, i.e. The Senate agreed to transport the disease. It was just last week, wasn't it, Mr. President? I think I remember that right. So the Ministry is already on its way to that work. For the factors that have been discussed, the development of the ministry in the first, second and third phase services, I am one of those who have pointed out a conflict between laws on health care, where the service is defined in a specific way as core services, and as expert service, etc., such strategies. It's in my mind that it's not such a great problem. In between, there's a certain contrast between us that's important to our understanding. It is also important for the Ministry to discern what I am not doubting, and it was actually found by the Ministry's representatives. It has a first-degree service, i.e. Health care, like a few others. Councilmen have entered here, the most important part of my knowledge. It is not only to promote health care as a pat but also to increase the number of staff in it and increase its education. That project is in full swing. It's nice to say that two years ago in Iceland, there were some 35 young doctors studying family medicine, but the next autumn that number will be over 60. In an effort to promote health care in the country, this, along with other visions, shows the current emphasis. That's fine. Of course, health care is much more than just doctors. It's all the community around her and the rest of the staff too. It involves factors such as psychology services, nursing services, home care, social advice, physical therapy, motor bills, etc. But all of these factors have been discussed in the Ministry and in the medical system, usually in the past. Fortunately, it seems that now, at least this loss, we are putting more money and more energy into promoting health care. One example is the development center for health care. I'd like to mention one more thing at the end. That's how we use money in our health. In Iceland, we have a mixed health system. We've had such a health system since 1909, at least Since Reykjavík's Medical Association was founded, I think I'll be right about that year. Health systems in Iceland have always been mixed. It's a mixture of private business and public business. This loss and the last few years have been an excellent community conspiracy that health care should be funded by the state. At least there's not a lot of disagreement, and not a lot of debate. However, there has been some conflicting conflict over the current issue of private business against government management, whether the balance between private conflict and public management has been lost. The facts are that in the past, the increase in health care and health - care costs have been considerably high in the private wing, and in this respect the importance of the current health minister is natural to me. An effort is being made to improve the public and the national part of the system, while the rest of it is not specifically affected. Today, the exchange is about one-fourth at three-fourth. I would rather assume that there is a reasonable agreement that we are going to stay that way. No one is talking about the government taking over all the nurses. No one's talking about the government taking over the whole physiotherapy business in the country, etc. And no one is talking about the government taking over the business of all the private clinics of doctors or other health care professionals in town. It's not. This business, however, is like another health operation in Iceland, prepared for contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance. Like at least The members of the board are in trouble. The welfare committee is aware of them, and we have been reenacted for the winter to have both the Ministry and the Medical Insurance meeting with us to discuss them. Although, of course, it's always easy to say that we wanted things to go more quickly, I believe they're in good shape. But there are always two parties who come to all these contracts, and I trust that people will reach national treaties before long. Mr. President. I put those words to good use, and I look forward to having the opportunity to vote for this direction when it comes to votes at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. When we discuss such important policy measures in such important matters, the most important, when such a policy is taken, is being consulted by specialists. Now it's such a good time. A senator is a medical professional and does well to have a word with him on this matter. Today, the policy presented here has been severely criticized by the president of the National Institute of Medicine and, indeed, the president of the National Medical Association of Iceland. Criticism has come from other sources. Mental - health aid has criticized a lack of communication. The comments of the Social Nurses are also critical. If I quote only the president of the Department of Medicine in Reykjavík - he writes a fistula in the medical journal he calls a crisis policy. He criticizes these medical and governmental policies, stating that the weakness of policy is primarily in the absence of medical discussion. That is a significant criticism. He takes many examples, including that of nursing, nursing, and mental - health issues. At the same time, much of the coverage of a growing and important part of the medical system that is a medical facility outside the hospital was missing. That's not what he says. He concluded that policy was unusable because of the total lack of vision. This is quite harsh criticism, Mr. President, and it would be good to hear a response. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. It is true that several criticisms have been reported, both from the president of this particular community in Iceland's Medical Association and also from other medical groups, to produce members of the European National Association. Criticism there, knowing that the policy was not written out into enough detail. When you read through the criticisms of these parties, it is primarily about that. One of the health policy numbers, the 8th team, is called Action. She talks so, with permission of the highest. President: To implement health policy until the year 2030, there will be plans for a five - year course of action. Such programs will be updated annually during the course of health care. Healthcare Ministers should submit annual health-care programmes for consultation at the General Assembly. As I mentioned in my speech, a minister is already working on such plans and offering them. The Parliament has already referred one particular plan to the minister and minister in particular to these factors. So I can't accept the criticism, even though I understand in myself the concern these parties have. I think it's safe to say that medical conferences, with their broad strokes, are quite comfortable with the factors these parties have been criticizing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. What's very important in this kind of policy work is discussed. A review of the mental - health committee points out that they were not specifically wanted to escape in the shape of the policy. I think it's reprehensible, and there are other examples of this. The review of Mental Help says, for example.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error It is noteworthy that there is no mention of an urgent need for improvement in mental - health care. This has now been discussed more than once and is a very important group of subjects. I think we have to take these types of indications seriously. Well, it's being developed for the future, and there's this huge, important group that I consider to be reprehensible. Hv. A senator specifically notes that the policy has an overall perspective but is not taken into detail. I have to say, what? A senator, that I don't think mental health is a small detail. I think it's reprehensible, and it's not good to pursue a course that doesn't have the point. At the end, I just wanted to take advantage of the opportunity and ask why. A senator is being criticized by a surgeon. It says: ▪ It is not enough to promote specialised services in the country through prolonged health care and transportation. The local service of experts should be balanced I wholeheartedly agree with this because we are looking so far ahead. It'd be nice to get a guess. A senator on this, how he could see that we would try to increase the presence of experts in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u31	Mr. President. There we go. A senator is making quite a few questions in a hurry. Of course, the senator realizes that I cannot answer all the details. Just so they say, of course, I agree with the senator that there's no small issue in mental health. A special mental - health program is now being carried out. A health minister has placed special emphasis on mental health issues in his work. I mentioned some of the points in my talk earlier. Also, we are not particularly concerned about heart disease. We do not particularly deal with pulmonary disease, etc. So there is really no particular group of diseases taken out of parentheses. As to surgeons'comments on long - term health care, etc. that's exactly what I mentioned, and we in the greater part make it very clear to our opinion that it is very important to ensure a foreign service and that it will not be resolved solely by a long - term health service. It has been clearly stated. However, it is an important factor, as I entered into my speech earlier, and perhaps especially in the course of follow-up. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator is aware that there are several tasks that include the use of distant health care services, even to examine patients, i.e. A medical professional will examine the patient and then accept advice from a specialist or other healthcare professional in other parts of the country. It's totally working. I agree with the senator that, of course, this is not the beginning and end of everything, but it can be of great importance. As for the discussion, all at the same table in it. They had the opportunity to attend a health - care conference and to offer their views. People had the opportunity to engulf their language of confidential talk. So I don't think there's one particular company that can be taken out of parentheses and say, "This one wasn't allowed to agree like another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speech, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! It is quite surprising how thin the thirteenth is when it comes to a discussion of health care in the country in this proposal for action. All members of the General Assembly should be familiar with the ongoing discussion of a high standard of care, both in terms of access to health care and then at the expense of attending health care services from remote areas, especially the third level of service, which is naturally granted only at the National Hospital of University Hospital and to a limited extent at the Hospital in Akureyri. The head of the majority opinion, huh? paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, introduced in his background speech that it had been tried to look at the health issues of 30,000 feet, as it was said. I don't think it all matters when it comes to health care in the country, especially in the areas that are not near Reykjavík or Akureyri, on the other hand. At that time, it doesn't matter which floor you look at. The situation has gone back, and the cost of making use of services, costs of partners, and so forth is quite different from those in areas close to these two medical institutions, which provide the third degree of service. I'm very sorry to see how light this scene is. I wanted to hear a point of view. The senator's concern is this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u33	Mr. President. I may not be able to agree with the senator that skates are particularly easily passed by there, either in the direction or in the opinion of the committee. On the other hand, I share worries with them. A candidate for health care in the country is much different from that in the capital area. How important it is to find ways to respond and to make sure that they have access to service when they need it! I believe that one of the factors that can be important is to define the service, define the level of service. The benefits of modern - day health care are always stronger and stronger, especially for scattered areas. It's just the health authorities now, let's say, a very elegant way of doing a lot of things in an effort to further that service. I mentioned in my speech a psychological service in home medicine. I named the Evolution Center of Health, and I mentioned the increasing number of people who are now attending family medicine. Of course, it is always possible to keep on doing better. I believe in the highest. The health minister is referring to what she has repeatedly said, that this service factor is one of the most importants in the system, especially in the country, and therefore the policy is emphasised there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I have to admit that I'd rather expect him to come up here and say that, of course, more emphasis could have been given to the national viewpoint. I quickly tried to look through one of the proposals for a court order of health policy to 2030 and the committee's opinion. I have to say, it's a pretty thin thirteenth... the viewpoints that are presented in this country. In the Senate arrangement itself, on page 18. 2nd chapter 2, the correct service to the proper place, says in team 7, with the permission of the president: The approach to the health care and services of experts in the country will be balanced by remote health care services and well - organized medical transportation. This, of course, has been shown during the discussion that this is not getting near for the third kind of service that humans really need in these two places where they are granted, especially one of them. The second point to the national region is to section 6 of the section 4, the Active Users as follows: To contact health care regardless of their home, some Americans have a technical opportunity to communicate with their homes. It is a forward - looking goal to make sure that everyone is able to call a hospital, but in itself I do not see much more benefit in the scattered areas of this goal. I think that's the situation today. The first paragraph of this report says that the main goal of Icelandic health laws is that all the country has the means to provide the most perfect health care that can be afforded at any given time to protect people's mental, physical, and social health. It's an excellent goal, but there's nothing I can think of, at any rate, skated by it in this synonym and the majority opinion of how to secure the scattered settlements of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u35	Mr. President. I came into it in my speech earlier and, indeed, also a reason. paritaprevir In his historical history, Signý Kristjánsdóttir that the committee dealt with this very subject, which in fact makes it special on page 18. 3 of the committee's opinion, would it not be in a third paragraph that specifically discusses these factors? Of course, such factors are referred to as hospital transportation and distant health care. It is also noted that factors such as distances and costs may be important to these residents, and the Ministry has to take special note of this. As I entered my case earlier and we were at the same time. By the way, if I remember correctly, we won't set up perfect health care in the whole country. We are simply not a large enough community to do that. First of all, we have a Phase 3 service in two places, in Akureyri and in Reykjavík. The amount of service we have in smaller areas must be such that it is sufficient to identify the problems, to figure out what they are, and to choose the remainder for the patients. That is how that service will be. We will be first and last with the first phase of service in the scattered areas, including some of the smaller hospitals in the country. We will not have much more than a second degree of service there, and probably rarely a third degree of service, although there are exceptions, as if for today's hospital at a Nes shop, where patients are being haemodialysis but in cooperation with the Land Hospital. Small hospitals in the country cannot handle such projects by themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u36	A respectable president. We will discuss the proposal for health policy to be made in 2030 the second time. This is an important stage of celebration. We have listened to the opinion of a major member of the health committee, where I have written my name on and heard my committee's opinion, both of which are valuable in the discussion of important subjects that we will discuss late and early in the years ahead. For a long time, the nation has been waiting for a clear policy in this important matter and so for a considerable degree of expectations. A minister made it his first job to decide that the court would now be set, that would be the most urgent, it would not be advisable to continue aimlessly and irreverently and into uncertainty. The severity of nonsurgent behavior was identified, which has often been done, and lastly in Mckinseyr's report for a number of lost cases in connection with land hospital and health care projects directly related to him. Similarly, a government accountant has dealt with health care and has emphasized that treaties, e.g. if you are a health care provider, including private rooms, in many cases based on weak grounds, have been built. The follow-up and success evaluations were carried out by an assortem. That's the opinion of the highest. A minister has fully understood the need for key support and emphasis before continuing and accepting the views that appeared in Mckinseyr's report that it would be inadvisable to add and expand the scope of health care services without having full perspective on where we were going to go in the system, who should be the most important recipients of health care, where we were going to offer services, and who were well prepared for it, how we wanted to build up the service, and what the requirements should be. Once this has become clear and we define it well and the cost to the individual factors - which I think is very important and that is one of our primary causes of not knowing how much special aspects of the ministry are involved, this precious part of the community that health care is because we have very little information about how much it costs. It may sound amazing in this technological society, where we can put the price tag on almost everything that's big and small. A map or a map of what the system looks like is the point. In the past, there have been many reports that the people, the people, call for improved service, a public service on the grounds of the nation, that we share with this fundamental part of society. Once we have made up our mind how this will be best, how much things will cost, and how we will increase our transparency, we can discuss who are best qualified to perform the ministry. This category has called for policy with some anticipation. A respectable president. As noted, this agreement on health policy has been carefully discussed on the welfare committee. There were nearly 40 reviews, a number of guests came to the committee, and consultations were made with the Commission, the highest. Minister, there are a number of issues that have been explained. During the motion review, I must admit that the experience was not wonderful and that it has been easy to control admiration for this piece. However, all discussions are good, and nothing that is put into the suggestion is such that it is a reason to resort to or make a major difference. The proposal contains a declaration of will in various ways, even points that can be understood as encouragement, even as a predictor of how we look toward the future. Of course, this is important. It is also important that we create a long-term reconciliation of the structure, structure of the system, and outline. But I don't have the full conviction that the policy here is strong enough into the vision that we need in the seminary, I don't talk about the whole thing. A respectable president. The synonym suggests that the future vision for health care will be as follows: 1st National Health Services will be a global standard and public health work, with emphasis on health control and prevention becoming part of all medical services, especially the services of the health care department. 2. Improvements in health care will be assessed by measuring its quality, its safety, its availability, and its cost. This is important. But I have to confess that when this little nation is about to set a global record or do something on a global scale, I always have a glimpse of myself. I think it's urgent that we bring countries in that relationship. Full experience in the early part of this century and unrealistic dreams should be enough for us. But we should have a healthy ambition to do well, that a safety network should be tight, that health services, health prevention, health care, and rehabilitation are extensive, and that no one has to disappear because people don't have enough material. A respectable president. The suggestion is based on the seven dissociated basics of health care that are discussed in a fairly general way in the suggestion. Perhaps it is clever and natural, but the expectations of some may have been greater, that there will be a greater attitude toward some of the factors that have been going on and that we may have some goal toward the future that we need to face. In my opinion, the most important factors are those that are not cut off in this course. Of course, first my mind comes to mind, since the matter is my concern, the details of older ones, and how we view the services of long - term, shorter - time groups in society. There is no significant change or innovation in nursing and caring for the elderly or the general status of the elderly in the community and the requirement for elderly living in the same quality of life as in other age groups. It has been noted that there is no way to discuss a wide range of policies that are supposed to wear a helmet around complex projects, but it is fair to note that our demographic view of the future is that the image will be transformed in this age group that will multiply in the decades to come. We have to start looking at changes in this regard. There is not much discussion about another factor, i.e. rehabilitation services, the important part of many services to the elderly, who aim to expand and unassigned participation in society without requiring long-term intervention, a development that is evident that society has to deal with in a new way. The so - called organicism of the past decade is coming down, and we must focus on changing the thinking that attracts older people to choice for themselves. A mental - health service has been mentioned, not to mention it in the Senate arrangement. But you should point out, like cot. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson noted that the country has a mental - health or mental - health program, and it is being carried out, and a minister has been strengthening the ministry in that area as a result of recent imprisonments. It may not be appropriate to assume that the above factors are placed in a general health policy. Therefore, it is important to have a schedule and the first. I'm aware that the Minister or Ministry is already laying the groundwork for various aspects of it, and it's urgent, but it's assumed that such a plan will be available every five years. A respectable president. You might consider this subject in detail. Like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason has mentioned little about health care in the country or part of the community of health care and health care in the country. The fact that people in the country are losing patience is beginning to grow. There is little to do about improving health care in the country. Need analysis and other vital factors are needed. The suggestion that telepathy may be an important link or an important part of maintaining and strengthening the service in the scattered areas of the country is not readily understood. But we what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson agrees that telecommunications or telecommunication services are an extremely important support, an additional supply for the inhabitants of the country, and especially for professionals working there, since there are possibilities for this development. A respectable president. Of course, for 2030, there is no other way than to celebrate a further motion on health policy. For material and, of course, financial reasons, society needs to create a solid, long - term framework for health care in the country. But there's no way to control a seizure. There are no individual institutions or companies to continue their elbows or circumstances. Of course, I support this proposal as a member of the health committee, but I'm afraid I was absent when the Commission asked for a final payment. I'm glad we're dealing with this important matter today, thanking the welfare committees and my associates there for our fine cooperation in the processing process, and hoping that we will succeed in the procedure that follows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson before the speech. At first, I would like to commend the senator in particular how candid and frank he was about pointing to the missing points of this health - care policy. You see, there are quite extraordinary numbers. This is a thin 13th. I must admit, I was a little surprised to hear a speech. Senator. I think he framed it okay. We now know many of his work as directors of the medical facility in the country, so he knows this excellently well, and one sensed it in the senator's speech that he skimmed lightly over the views of the scattered settlements, the many factors that are simply missing in it, mental - health services, for example, and many other things, as the senator mentioned. I'd like to curious about that. Now's the time. A senator on a welfare committee committee and although he was not at the meeting where the matter was taken out - that is not all - he is likely to be observing all coverage. Is it true that I was refused to accept these views mentioned by the senator in the majority opinion that health policy should not be done in detail? It's fine, then, if the health - care minister thinks it's a good thing. A senator listed the details that do not belong in government health policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. As I mentioned in my presentation, health policy has been waiting a long time. We had hoped that the track and the curve would be clearly set. This would be a guide, such as a map, and from this we could determine how we built the system and at what stage the service would be performed. Some of the success has been achieved, but this is a very general policy. As I mentioned, it's a helmet over a very complex group of subjects, and it's an assessment point of how much to take on this course. I can't say that it has been accepted with the privilege of putting more factors into the policy of health care in the country. It says that access to health care services should be balanced. This is true in the country as well as in other locations. We have not yet seen this in the country. The workers in the country have as narrow an option as they have been, and they still do not sense the changes being proclaimed. But hopefully we'll see it in the implementation program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brun's Brjánsson answers. I have a certain understanding of the viewpoints expressed in the response of the senator, who says that health policy has been waiting a long time. Of course, individuals like him who have worked in this sector and have directed an organization have come to understand what kind of monster situation it has been that such a course has not been present. At the same time, individuals who have a good knowledge of the language have hoped that this is done properly, not just a medical policy to make sure that there is a health policy. Then I think it would be better to do things properly and thoroughly and try to put it into practice so that those who have come to know will be content. I think it must be strange for everyone to hear this list. A senator - of course, should respect him for being a government officer on the committee so that you can understand that he does not direct the majority opinion from A to Z, but he is at it or his representative at the meeting the case was made up of. I allow myself to talk about complete silence or about the national interest in this policy, asking why. A senator: Is he imagining that there will be a complete solution to some plan of action? Or does he envision an adjustment in the synopsis until the end of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The second answer is Bergethi the Bergþór of Ólason. Here's a proposal for health policy for the whole country, not just for the country, not just for Reykjavík, not just for Akureyri, but for the Land Hospital and not just for the Akureyri Hospital, even if these factors are given a little publicity in this proposal. This proposal for health care makes it clear that health care is a basic component of national health care. Health care is the most important health care provider, and it will, according to this proposal, will be built all over the country. Men have started the building work here in Reykjavík, but we feel that it is late to get reforms outside of the city of Reykjavík and create this ideologies for which it is intended, e.g. On new management plans, for the implementation of the country. I tend to do so, though there is a great difference between our country and the country's territory, I tend to avoid setting it up on one side in Reykjavík and on the other. The red cord here may be that the region is supported by the university hospital, the National Hospital, the head of the country. But I don't have a feeling if people will make serious changes in this direction in the light of what is mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u41	A respectable president. We will discuss an important health policy until 2030. It has been mentioned when we discuss the importance of a policy and that all involved with the major health - care and health - care issues in the same direction. That's extremely important. It is also important to work in behalf of the health - care professionals in the ministry. It should be the main focus of any service we are going to provide for the citizen, the quality it should be, the measure we take, and the priorities we set for that service. It's policy. As part of the strategy referred to here, we will see how we closely follow these policies. Hence, it may be only natural for one unit to be cut off within the medical system, since it can vary according to the time we use the units, where we give the service, and how to reach the goals of the policy. The course is easy to agree with. We want all the people in Iceland to live in a safe and efficient health service where the bioavailability of all the people of the country is assured. That's the foundation we must all want. We want to keep our ministry on a global scale. We agreed completely on that on the committee, and I think we all are, that the big project is to promote human health and health benefits through preventive measures. It must be done. We want to give our service at the first stage, have preventive measures, and deal with health abnormalities at the start, preferably prevent them, so as soon as they start, they need to be handled. Let us limit the need for a third degree of service as much as possible. I think this is the very foundation, and that's why we need all the information we have on how we're doing. There must be scales to measure the quality and security of the service we provide, its availability, and its costs. We need it all in order to achieve the goals of our course. Then we'll see how implementation plans work. That's how I watch it, how we achieve it. I can see that it is difficult to have a large, diverse group of subjects without meddling: Wait, am I talking about something that's supposed to be in the program or something that's supposed to be in the direction? That is why I wanted to start by saying that it is important that we consider what service we are going to give to the public. That's our policy. Then we need to find the best ways to meet our goals and have some standards to measure whether we are achieving them. It is also important to use policy to help us set our priorities within the medical system. What should we be interested in highlighting? Where do we want to set priorities for the money? Where do we think it is best to reach our goals? I think there's an even greater need for prevention and public health. That's extremely important. Thus we can make sure that as many people in Iceland live in good health. If we can improve this, we will have much more space and much more money to give to those who need more medical care if we prevent as many as possible from moving up the stairs to the second and third stages of service. Hence, some aspects of our policy are not taken deeply into consideration. Still, they were very much discussed with the committee, and we received quite a few comments and comments, which were very good. There was a little debate about where and how a service was performed, called the proper service here. There I feel that it is important to reach the health - care targets around the country, that everyone has the right to have the best available health care, to have room in what the service is provided, not all in one place, but to be allowed to develop and find out where it is best organized. This is made clear both in the first and second stages of service. Of course, we'd like to have health care as the most powerful nation around the country, and it's all over the country, and it's well scattered. Therefore, it is important that health care be strong and varied, that the services served there as the most varied, a service that is clearly available to all today. This is also true of the second - degree service that we have considered, it is given in many places, and it has to be a fitting one. We need to discuss much what the National Hospital of University should provide a great deal of secondary service because it can be more practical and safe and better service to citizens throughout the country if it is granted by independent experts or by individual health institutions across the country. We know this in many other locations in the North countries, that the experts go out and use health - care institutions to render certain secondary services. Thus they spread and develop, rather than being all in one place, perhaps less progress and variety. We need to take good care of that. There is something else that we can discuss, and it is important that we plan for technology to establish and make it available to our distant health - care providers. That's one of my policies, that everybody has access, whether it's the technical part or the fishy thing, so wherever people live in this country, they have real access to services. Either the health care or the district hospital provides people with the ministry or the experts who work all over the country. This is also true if the service is given electronically through a long - term health service, people need access to it completely independent of their habitat, so the capitals could possibly use it, for example. There must be no technical obstacles to the development of new technology and development. If there is a legal problem, the government must deal well with it. Medical transfers are also mentioned in the report. As noted earlier today, the General Assembly agreed to agree on a policy for emergency services outside the hospital. Evolution seems to go in circles all the time. We've heard stories about doctors of the past centuries who always visited. The doctors did not receive much help to them in the hospital but went to the people and nursed them. This may be what is going on now with increased differentiation and compression and increased health-related development. The ambulances are turning into a field service. In certain cases, very good health care can be provided sooner or later, although it is natural for the person to be transferred to a hospital. However, the ministry is performed immediately, and it is vital that such service be given attention and built up. Then there's another thing about the access that I think is a big part of this course, which we need to consider. It is not just the patient's travel expenses or the service caregiver's; it's the company's expenses. The person may lose his job or have to live somewhere for a while and have his people next to him. That system needs to think in its entirety to ensure real access. It must be part of the project plan to keep that in mind. I've considered the key points I was going to discuss and stress. We have a policy, and we have certain factors that make access sure, that the development and quality of the service can be assured, and that it is provided in the most practical way throughout the country. There must be a clear guide for future implementation plans. I trust that now everyone lies on the years and calms in the same direction, in the direction of creating the best health system in the world, which could be said to be a policy goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to have a place to say. I know that he's a special patient on the ambulance, which is good. According to one reference work, a medical surgeon in charge of health policy said that the construction of medical transportation could be made more strongly. It has to be said, at the moment, that there is an enormous contribution in this transport policy. Healing, then, is a medical service, and health - care providers should control their procedures, whether in the country, on the uterus, or in the air. It may be noted that in 2017 a very careful report was issued by a health care worker asking helicopters to be used to transport the country and to become a regular part of an emergency transport reaction in addition to ambulances and medical planes. As we know, the long absence of an ambulance or an ambulance may be impaired by an ambulance, where only one ambulance is available to cope with further incidents. So, of course, time is all that matters in this job, i.e. the time to react. Now's the time. A member of the welfare committee and a member of this committee party. I'd like to ask him if he didn't miss the fact that there's no more talk about medical transportation, especially with helicopters as much as a dog. A senator has spoken before, including for the South and for the West. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and his interest in emergency services outside of hospitals or medical transportation. I can agree that as often as possible, I want to mention all medical transportation. You may be able to read it in this opinion from what you hear. The welfare committee. Not all aspects of the medical system are addressed. While the health system is large and provides a variety of services, emergency services outside the hospital have considerable room in the committee's opinion. Then I'd like to mention what I came into my talk earlier. Here we have our course. The policy is to ensure bioavailability and best service across the country. It's policy. We have to do everything in order to provide the most efficient service in a practical way across the country, etc. It's policy. Then we're gonna get the plan done. Then, naturally, it becomes clear that a helicopter is the very thing. It's a helicopter that will be number one in the implementation program. If it is done correctly, I am convinced that it will be at the top of a magazine to make sure that it is the most accessible, the most secure, the most practical, and the best possible service. I have full faith in that. I believe this is how special it is to not achieve your goals within a policy system. They belong in the projection program. But because of our interest in this matter on the welfare committee, we made a pact proposal to force this strategy to be carried out in an emergency hospital service and it has been approved by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to thank him for his use of both speech and literature on the importance of the experimenting that there will be hospital transports in the South. I think this is a very important project. This is one of the largest areas in the country when it comes to tourists. Sadly, there have been times when response times are of utmost importance. I don't agree with what. A senator saying that this is not part of a medical conference. We look to the future, how we want to provide for ourselves with health care in the future. That's exactly what we've been discussing about the helicopters. We want that future service to be rendered. That's why I think it would have been important to mention a hospital helicopter in this direction, and I miss it. In the end, I wanted to say something about it. A senator. We've worked together on that subject, me and what. A senator, who spoke of health care in Southnes as being improved by population growth, which is unprecedented. If this policy had not been desirable, it would have been mentioned as population growth in general, i.e. that health - care policies take into account population growth in certain areas? That's very important. Like Southnes, we look forward to unprecedented population growth. Is it not reasonable that policy calls for rapid and effective action when unusually large population growth is shown in certain areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u45	A respectable president. At any rate, I can say that if you could have been able to mention some outstanding action in this opinion, I would have welcomed it, as with the helicopter, that it would be one of the most progressive steps in the health system. But there are just so many things that we can do better in our health, many projects, that one is not really justified. That is why we went on our way to have a special assembly resolution on the chopper's affairs and out - of - hospital services on the welfare committee. I thank the General for completing this matter fast and with great faith in it. It is true that we could have talked about urban development, both in weaknesses and in growing growth, that it would be necessary to ensure that the health system would be responding quickly in such cases. The way we aim for a health - care system that responds rapidly to a changed situation in either direction may be well thought of. I think it's absolutely necessary. Still, the committee partially responds to the situation. A senator comes in with the following opinion: It is essential to ensure that local health institutions and experts working there have the ability to provide as a broad range of second - degree services so that inhabitants of the country do not always have to travel long distances to obtain such services. Then there is the need to consider that not all areas where services are best developed. We're trying to get in there that everything must be done in order for the national hospital to grow as much as it did in the Southnes. It should be possible to perform a great deal of service, making the hospital bigger and stronger to respond better to the movements of the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's heart for his speech. The discussion here earlier this afternoon has been made with members of the committee, who I think alone held talks so far, that it had been proposed, apparently, to skip many things, do not enter ◯diteila, and so on in the streets. I have to tell you in my own way that my feeling is that the plow is kind of thin as it is now. I'm gonna allow myself, by permission of the President, to read up one paragraph in the Senate decree, which is no. 8 to 4. At the moment, by permission of the president: ▪ Health care providers understand the needs and goals of those whom they consult and focus on providing services that meet these needs and goals. It's just foam, that's all. It doesn't have to be held in Congress. This is just what people do every day in their jobs and relationships. But let it go. What I want to ask you is why. In addition to criticizing that there were not a more specific way of handling various topics, the rest of the document is that I see very little mention of cooperation with private people. The only thing I can find is the 1st part of chapter 5, of an efficient service purchase, which says, by permission of presidents: Iceland's health insurance insurance pays all contracts to buy health care on behalf of the State, whether it is public or private services. I haven't found it in many places. I have to admit, I'm not as well read in the majority opinion as I am in the Senate arrangement. However, this is a major issue, as we know, of discussions about replacement operations carried out in Sweden for three times the cost of performing them at home and so on. [[The president calls.]] So I'm very familiar if you're completely iced past a conversation with your private sector and contact with him in your health policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u47	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that we didn't deal with every aspect of the proposal. But with regard to the first question, the overall context must be discussed. Hv. A senator did not read it. It discusses the information that needs to be there and the measures needed to be so that the public can participate and be responsible for themselves in maintaining their health. What are some things that are unattainable? What information and research and development do we know about? Health care providers need to be active in providing this information and conscious of what resources are available for prevention and public health so that the public can hold a measure of responsibility for themselves and help us to improve the health of the people, so that we do not have to provide all of this for ourselves. All of the standards we speak here aim to provide information in the most practical way, in the most reliable way and to ensure progress. Much is said in the Commission's list of ways in which this service can be performed, and it is even said that secondary services are being performed in an ever greater measure by private and independent specialists. Especially do we come to realize that this service is not just to be built up at the Land Hospital. It is important for her to develop in the hospitals, with independent experts, partnerships, thirds, and others, just those with ideas and powers. I want them to give it to you. Then a strategy must be taken into account by providing it, depending on its policies, the safest, the most practical, and the best access.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's question for the answer. Perhaps to follow this only: We look at how private and independent experts have been - the clinical, can take countless examples - between these groups as well as the health minister and the Ministry during the past few months and with the losser, who are said to be under the command of the current Supreme Court. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. How does that measure? paritaprevir Will Árnason? Does he consider it to be a real interest in the current health minister to use the benefits of private failures where appropriate? It has been discussed in the earlier discussion that it is very difficult to obtain information on cost analysis, which is said to be real cost, at Land Hospital, and in most parts of the system. Is it realistic to believe that we will attend the services where it is rendered as reasonably in view of the results? Or is this a dream to some future? Because there is nothing in my opinion of the environment, as it seems to us now, indicating that it is the real intention of the Minister to seek the most practical ways, if it might require negotiating with private people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u49	A respectable president. Yes, I have full faith in the highest. Health Ministers and health ministers who will arrive in the future will not hesitate to make decisions to negotiate with third parties, partners and other private members of the business, will achieve this policy. What is part of this policy and what is it to the highest level? A health minister has mentioned this? We need to know what service we render and what good things we receive. How's that? There is a lack today, both in the hospital and elsewhere, to know the real service we are doing and the follow-up. Does that mean we get a service? Are Quality Qualifications Fulfilled? When we have a policy here that says that if we give the quality service where it is most secure, in the most practical way, we will be able to buy it there, regardless of how productive it is. That's what this policy is all about. The policy is not to be controlled from one business plan to another, not at all. This policy says: "Hey, let's aim to have information on the practicality of our service, the quality of our service and its security. It will direct where we buy that service from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u50	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the Commission to the greater part of the State Department for a proposal for action on the confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017, change of IV. An Annex on Energy at the EEA Convention. The committee has done a lot of research and has brought in a number of visitors. Among the guests were Sigurðardóttir Árni, Ásmundsson Almar, Jóhannes Ólafur Þorgeirsson, Sigurður Snædal and Davíð Vilhjálmur Snæbjarnarson frá the nýsköpunarráðuneyti of State, Stephensen Guðmundur Már Ólafsson and Gunnar Guðjónsson Óli of the Júlíusson, Konráð, Gunnlaugsson Björgvinsson. How could we say that we have had some opinions about the subject and diversity from all perspectives, from both scholars and organizations, and we became all the guests who came during the two weeks that we discussed the matter on the foreign committee? The committee also received a number of reports on the subject that can be considered in the leading list of committees. The proposal is to consult the General authority to confirm the decision made by the joint EEA committee and to enter the following types of products that make up the so-called third energy package. There are eight types: 1st The Council and Council No. 713/2009 of July 13, 2009, to establish the energy market Rapporteur's Cooperative Management Board. 2. The Council and Council No. 714/2009 from the same aforementioned date on the conditions of access to network for cross-border electrical exchange and the breakdown of Regulation. 3. The Council and Council No. 715/2009 from the same time on the conditions for transport systems for natural gas and the breakdown of regulations. 4. The Commission Regulation No. 543/2013 of 14 June 2013 for delivery and publication of data on electrical targets. Five-thirty-six. Council Directives and Council No. 72/2009 and 73/2009 on common rules about the internal market for electricity and natural gas. 7. Commission decision on changing chapter 3 on Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 715/2009 on the requirements for access to natural gas transport systems. 8. The Commission decision from 24 August 2012 on the change in Regulation on the requirements for access to natural gas transport systems. The presentation of the proposal is considered to be the greater part in accordance with Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. In a paper with the Parliament's resolution proposal, the extensive consultation that has been made with the Council Committee for the third energy package is very detailed and there is no need for bickering. The committee has endeavored to obtain the most widely held views, such as a guest list that I began to read. Send out the mission to issue 132 requests. From the beginning it was clear that there was considerable interest in this matter, especially in the fact that 51 sources received the commission, from scholars, members as individuals. The Commission wanted to ensure that the public could gain access to information on the subject and decided that all visitors to the Committee would be open to the media, with the exception of the visitors in accordance with local law. This arrangement has gone forward hoping, contributing to a well - informed discussion, while the discussion on the committee benefited the members of the committee. The contents of the third energy package are a material extension of the first and second energy package produced in Iceland by electronic law, No. 65/2003, and with subsequent changes to the same songs. The third energy pack consists of types that concern the internal market for electricity and natural gas. The main indicators involved are the requirement for the owner's separation of transport companies, the more detailed directives for the independence of electronics and the increased demand for consumer protection and information administration. This will set up the Rapporteur's Cooperative Management Board on an energy market that is assigned to play a role between the electronics monitors. It should be noted that the ACER, an energy market partner, was set up in 2010 and has been fully active since 2011, as the 2009 energy package has been made. The majority of the problems are that when the energy watch that has been done by the Power Agency is carried out independently, the status of the Power Agency in the management system will not change beyond that of the new unit. The Agency, however, has many other important roles under national law. Monitoring is also the case. aims to observe that competition between the public and the company, other than energy-rich industrial, is active and fair and transport between consumers at all costs, that the business activities are transparent and the rights of consumers are always premium. The monitoring of these independent units is limited to the internal market in Iceland, as there is no electrical exchange between Iceland and other parts of Europe. With the first and second energy package, it was a significant step to introduce the competitive environment in the production and sales of electricity at the discretion of consumer interests. Key elements in this effort are the rules on party equality for access to transport and distribution systems and consumer rights to select which manufacturer they buy electricity, as well as other factors designed to promote free competition for consumers. In this regard, the comments of Tómas Ingi Olrichur, of the General Assembly of May 4, 2000, were reviewed as the release of a administrative notice was made in the introduction of the first energy package, which said, by permission of the president: It is not before shooting that there can be a realistic competition for production and sales of electricity. But here it must be the same as in Europe, that for such competition to develop, it is very important that you always have access to the carriers. These policies on energy market competition are generally very consistent from the lack of monopolizeability of the transport systems in the enterprises responsible for the production and sale of energy. I can readily agree that this is a very important matter. I do not agree, however, that this is a dangerous matter. This is part of the competitive nation that has been leading us into since we entered the European economy, which has brought us great benefits. In November 2011, the University of Iceland's Economic Institute made an assessment of how to achieve the separation of competitive and Marketing Authorisations. The result was as follows, by permission of the president: However, it must likely have been felt that changes in the direction that the competitiveness of the electricity market led to a lower power price. As a result, the change has to be considered to have led to a more efficient national energy system. In negotiations with the EFTA countries in the EU and the European Union, Iceland used certain resources and adaptations due to local conditions. The decision made by the joint EEA is made on the terms and adaptations of Iceland. In this way Iceland is abjected product of natural gas, as well as an important exception has been obtained from regulations relating to the dissociation of the transport systems from other operations of the electricity market, such as the 9th energy market. Directive 2009/72. At the same time, it is recommended that the European Commission be able to demonstrate that there are problems for the management of electrical systems, they are allowed to apply for extradated measures in the separation of distribution companies, access to transport and distribution systems, marketing and mutuality. Finally, two supporting adjustments due to ACER authority are negotiated in relation to an energy transfer conflict between the Rapporteurs. The supporting solution means that the EFTA (EU) monitoring agency will provide them with authority to the EFTA countries in the European Economic Area. Therefore, ESAs make decisions that turn toward the EFTA countries based their decision on drag from ACER. The ESA's decision-makers are independent, and in the event of a conflict between these two institutions, they should be referred to as a solution to the joint EEA committee. Thus, such a solution falls fully into the two systems of support. In terms of whether a third energy package is in accordance with a constitution, most scholars agree that the uptake and induction of the third energy package without any warning is in line with the Icelandic government laws. In the opinion of Skúli Magnússon, a member of the Parliament's resolution proposal, he concluded that the expeditation of authority into the induction of the third energy package met the criteria for being well defined and in a limited field. Then the nature and scope of the source would not be different from what was once thought to be compatible with the Constitution; and in fact, it might also be reasoned that both in terms of the extent and nature of the decisions, but such as expeditation for European financial monitoring. This confirmed him further to the committee as a guest. Skúli's conclusion is in line with the opinion of Þór Björgvinsson's band, who also follows the synonym. It showed that ESAs and ACER authority are less likely to be used than the authority given by ESAs on the basis of EU financial monitoring regulations. It would be viewed as a matter of reference to the State or its institutions, not to individuals or lawyers. Thus, the authority was comparable to the authority given by the European Court of Human Rights and fully in accordance with the national sovereignty of the European Constitution. There was no doubt that the sources were well understood in the sense of the exodus that had been developed in Iceland. Even if Iceland was later connected to the EU's common electrical energy system by means of a cable, it would not change the existence of authority within the scope of the lawgiver's scope. According to Stefánsson Moorsson and Friar Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst, while Iceland was not linked to the European Union's common electronic energy market, it was not a matter of concern. So, in particular, they discussed 8 grams. Regulation No. 713/2009, which includes ESA decision selection according to the lead-in text of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee and for the cross-border infrastructure. In their conclusion, the question was, Was the exercise of power extended beyond that of the Constitution? But it was suggested that a third pack of energy would be introduced into Icelandic rights with legal notice that its laws on infrastructure over the borders would not be valid. The basic premise would be that the decision to establish such infrastructure was by no means in Iceland's custody. Implementing a decision to build a cross-border infrastructure, the third energy package on cross-border infrastructure would be rechecked to see if they were compatible with the Constitution. This, in particular, stated that there was no legal question that the way they suggested and here is taken down and laid down as fundamental, is in accordance with a constitution, and that fact is of utmost importance. In view of this and in any doubt at all, the Parliamentary decree is referred to as Regulation No. 713/2009, which establishes the ACER, will be legally introduced. It is designed to provide the model for the solution taken by Stefán Motor Stefánsson and Friðriksson Hirst's Friðsson taken into his team's opinion that the infrastructure that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the European Union's energy markets will not be built or planned unless the exception of a review of the Regulation's legislation and its cross-border regulations will not be carried out until it is concluded. In the event of such a review, it would be up to the Generals to determine if the introduction conforms to the constitution. In addition to this, the more part is entitled to electrical energy for sale abroad, and the construction of infrastructure for sale, it depends on the legalization of the country and all the national organisations and programmes that turn such projects, both land and sea level. With regard to the general social discussion of the third energy package, which has been discussed extensively, certain misunderstandings have been taken that we believe are necessary to correct. It has been suggested that a third energy package includes the obligation of the Icelandic government to engulf a cable or to agree that others will use it. The committee carefully reviewed this and questioned the scholars who came before the committee. Their opinion is that the energy package does not include any obligation of the Icelandic state to establish, or allow, a link between the Icelandic electricity market and other EU countries. To eliminate all differences, the travel, industrial, and innovation minister has provided a bill to correct the conversion of electronic law and the interpretation proposal for a change in the Congress resolution of No. 26/148 where it is stated that there will be no attack on the link between the energy systems of the country's electricity system to another country's transpiration system unless it has been agreed by the Generals. The majority also want to be told that a business with energy is part of the EEA Convention -- incredible but true - and has been abducted as IV. The Annex of the EEA Convention. In contrast, the EEA Treaty does not implement the use of natural resources over which EFTA countries within the EEA have full control. This has been discussed with the third energy package in developing competition in the Icelandic electricity market. The majority indicate that competition for electricity markets is already at hand in Iceland, which has led to development and reduction in electricity prices, as stated earlier. A greater proportion of the State Department also claim that Europe's joint electricity market is about competitive sales and purchases of electricity and incentives to increase the share of renewable energy. It is not a matter of trajectory to sovereign states to hold central decisions on cross-border energy consumption or to promote centrally certain capacity of the transport line. Neither the European Union nor the EEA/EFTA countries have lost full control over such resource use using the approved third energy package. Many of the points discussed in connection with the third energy package and reports on the Parliament's smell proposal will be most effective at working in the preparation of long-term energy policies produced by the Directorates of the Professional and Neoplasmic Ministry. Energy policy has to do with, including on aspects of Iceland's custody of energy resource use and management, self-selection of possible links to other electronic systems, how to contribute to active competition in the electricity trade, further increase in energy supply protection, energy security, cooperation of energy and climate and Iceland's status within energy policy. The members of all members of the Parliament are engaged in a team for the shape of energy policy, and this work has been working for one year. Based on the proposed total energy policy, at the beginning of 2020, it will have to do with the way to the next year as regards land activation policy. The energy policy will also be a policy document for that policy. It is essential and important in the greater part that there will be no delay in working on energy policy development, and if possible, the work should be accelerated, in line with the change in climate and the need to establish clear policy on such important issues as energy issues and we are glad to have received more discussions in the community than much of the discussion that has been caused by the third energy package may have more at home. It is also important that the government aims to explain the government's ownership and interest policies against the government's energy sector. A third energy package has brought up a discussion of the need for a special resource directive in the constitution. Although nothing in the third energy package is the nature of this requirement, the discussion is still important, and it has long been available to establish a specific requirement for the natural resources constitution. Decades have been followed by ideas of describing certain natural resources of national property. During this election period, presidents of political parties who reside in the General Assembly have regularly met to discuss legal records. At their meeting on May 10 it was. was decided to provide a bill for the change in the republic's constitution to consult the general public in a government consultation. The committee opinion reviews what is involved in the bill; however, it is important that such discussions be taken in spite of the lack of direct relevance due to the third energy package or increased need for it because of the third energy package. The importance of the EEA Convention was high in this discussion, natural, as the discussion of the third energy package has led to a focus on the importance of the agreement. In fact, the review of the importance of the EEA agreement has been discussed by the advisors and members of the Committee, and many have been moved to emphasize the need for cooperation to be maintained and not to be put at risk. Since the beginning of the EEA Union, the EFTA countries within the EEA have never used denial of the recording of the EEA Convention. Then it has never been that the state refuses to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee. In view of these unprecedented circumstances, the State Department of State requested an opinion made by Carl Baudenbacher, former president of the EFTA Court, as well as from the University of Reykjavík International and European Court forum on the consequences of this failure to accept the release of the third energy package. It describes a similar scene involving a major legal and political uncertainty about the future of the EEA Treaty in Iceland that decided not to override the administrative notice of the joint EEA Commission decision on the third energy package. Carl Baudenbacher in his opinion of rejecting the Iceland Third Energy package could be involved in the EEA Treaty. The European Union would likely view the matter as an example and would follow it. Iceland would be regarded as not moving against the fact that a third energy package fell below the EEA Treaty and when the EEA Council decided in November 2014 that the flow of the third energy package in the EEA Convention would need to be accelerated. Then Iceland would have already had the opportunity to influence the third energy package that would have paid off in certain forms and adaptations. Also, Iceland did not violate the agreed EEA Commission decision on the third energy package but was content to put a special administrative notice on it. Then Iceland would have already introduced the first and second energy package. A Baudenbacher also felt unlikely that Iceland would receive an exception from the third energy package if the case went back to the European Commission. Iceland would be committed to Norway and Liechtenstein, and their legitimate interests would be taken into account during the induction. Iceland could not find its own monopoly to change policy unless there was a more important argument behind it. Iceland's singing included the fact that a third energy package would not be valid for Norway and Liechtenstein. Iceland's instruments, however, would not rule out that Norway would consider making a two-sided agreement with the European Union in view of the interests involved. Such trends could lead to serious consequences for the EEA Convention. The authority to refuse the recording of the EU contract is certainly clear, but conjugal views of the majority of the committee's share as well as the Baudenbachers is that the third energy package was not the sort of issue that justified such emergency measures. In the opinion of the International and European Court of Human Rights at the University of Reykjavík, the EEA Convention was also based on the cooperation of the Member States and the responsibility to maintain its successful implementation. The failure of Iceland's product of warning would therefore have a direct effect on Norway and Liechtenstein, where legislation would not be of any value to them, as it was earlier said. This would mean that section IV. The addition of the EEA Convention, which the legislation will directly influence, such as 2 mg. 102st. The EEA Convention would be postponed temporarily, except for its common EEA Commission regulations. This could lead to uncertainty for consumers and businesses here and to a significant degree of justice in Norway, an active participants in the internal market for both electricity and gas. It is important to look at 5 mg of bait. 102st. should only be a temporary arrangement until negotiations have agreed. In the case of the third energy pack, such an agreement would already be obtained following the extensive preparation and negotiations of the EFTA countries in the EEA and the European Union, which led to the introduction of a European Union. to the adjustment and access that Iceland had, and I've already gone over. The Agency considered it difficult to see what the contract aim of the Icelandic government should be in further adjustments to the legislature, for no one has mentioned what it should be. It should then be noted that the European Union would never have provided an adjustment from an entire addition which has been part of the EEA Convention from its signature. In Iceland's choice not to lift the government alert would result in a major legal and political uncertainty that could upset the implementation of the EEA Convention. The two groups, from Baudenbacher and the International and European Court of the University of Reykjavík, shed light on the importance of Iceland's interests and speciality from the beginning of the process in the EEA Convention. It is important that Iceland's contract aims are clear from the beginning, as changes in policy may be difficult when it comes to its completion. The results of Iceland's negotiations are also to be considered to be successful, especially with regard to the ownership of transport companies. So most of the stock wants to be active in Iceland's interestkeeping. The great debate and knowledge produced in EU energy policy are the best sources of negotiations due to the fourth energy package currently developing in the Union. Iceland's view needs to be heard at the beginning. In this context, the greater part welcomes a recent increase in experts at Iceland's embassy in Brussels. At the same time, the General has contributed to new regulations agreed on the Constitutional treatment of the EEA and went into effect in September. to put in place early monitoring of EU types. In the end, there is control of resources. The third energy pack, as mentioned earlier, has no effect on the control of Iceland over its natural resources. This understanding was put in place in the joint declaration of the European Commission, the Arias and Canete - March European Commission, by the Secretary of State Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson. The declaration stated that the current provision of the EU's third energy package would have no effect on Iceland's sovereign countries over Iceland's energy resources and that the European Union's electronic cables and internal energy markets are totally restricted by the Icelandic government. If an ESA were to be laid in the future, the ESA would have a cross-border policy rather than an ACER as agreed in the adaptation text of the joint EEA committee reflecting the independence of the strains EFTA under the two-founding systems of the EEA Convention. The three EFTA countries in EEA, Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein made a joint statement on the European Commission on May 8 of that year. Since Iceland's uniqueness in the internal energy market of the European Union was further challenged. The declaration states that the requirement of the third energy package has no effect on the full control of the EFTA countries in the EEA over their energy resources, their provision and practicality. Decisions on the integration of their electronic energy systems and the energy systems of the EU's internal market were always their custody. The future end-of-the-day sea cable action would be to allow ESAs to determine a problem with Iceland rather than the ACER in general according to the two-part system. The above statements have political and national significance. In an announcement to the EFTA office on the reduction of administrative information, both the Commission's declaration of energy to the EU Commission and the secretary of state from March 20 will be specifically referred to. and to the joint declaration of the EFTA countries in the EEA, given on May 8 of the joint EEA committee. This is further documented by the common understanding of all parties that Iceland still has full control over its energy resources. Thank you very much for your well-work, to have a long meeting with a number of guests, a tireless meeting place, as it were. þm. Inga Goland brings up from the hall. [[A tireless meeting place.]] I thank you for the fine work that took place. There is no need for any other than for a more part to suggest that the proposal be accepted. Under the writings of Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ari Trausti Haraldsdóttir, Bríldsdótttir, Logi Þorgerður K. Einarsson, Rósa Gunnarsdóttir Brynjólfsdóttir Brjolf's daughter, Silja Dög Gönsdotsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Gönusdo K.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for the history and clear. There are many things I wanted to know. A senator and especially since I was now sitting in this meeting with these jurists. It's, for example. I'm talking about legal notice. Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, came to us and, like a whale, came to us. A senator mentioned earlier that he did not consider any exposition, and he believed that we were not going out of line with a constitution or anything. Nevertheless, when it came to this legal notice, he said that he was now more in his home bridge - his unchanged word - really nothing at all. I'm asking why. A senator: What did Davíð mean by Þór Björgvinsson's son? And we couldn't believe it? Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Áfnar Friðriksson Hirst also approached us and returned their opinion. There seems to be more legal uncertainty, and they offered two suggestions to approach the subject. The first proposal was that they considered them legal, and also said it at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which included the presentation of this to the EEA joint committee. That suggestion, however, was not chosen; it was the idea of this so - called governmental advance that Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, did not make such a great deal of it. It's something I'm wondering at the beginning, these two.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. So I think it's different when you refer to Davíð, Þór Björgvinsson, what he made of the legal warning - he just didn't think he needed it. In fact, most scholars have concluded that it is unnecessary. But because of the questions and opinions raised, there was a deeper opinion, and it is one scholar or two with one opinion group that declares such concerns, so we will take this legal course to heart. And what is the legal value of that one? Yes, he has not only received approval from the EU energy manager for common understanding but also now the EFTA countries, which specifically claim our situation. And Bjarni Már Magnússon doesn't know what he's talking about, e.g. that this has great national value, these statements, and is quite binding. I think this is the case in the most correct way because all you can do is look at the minority opinion that is available, based on the exact same speech as the previous issue. of the matter and of exactly the fact that Stefán Stefánsson has a view of the value of the constitution. He has had such opinions in the past, and the same concerns regarding financial regulations. But that's the way, and that's the main thing. The route that has gone here is also in his opinion according to the constitution, as did any other scholar who came before the committee. I think the last few days and weeks of work on the committee clearly revealed that the other way. A senator might prefer to be even more uncertain. It's about our EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As I understand her, I give you why. The senator looked low for Stefán's suggestion, Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst, whom they considered to be the most legally secure route. On the one hand, I'd like to name the fine man we got over, Carl Baudenbacher, who I don't quite understand. He simply told us that the European Union does not take any special interest in Member States, whether they are small or not, who did not comply with the national commitments they have made by their contracts. I'm asking you, what could possibly happen? What do we get in particular from undergoing all these energy policies here? Are Icelandic consumers in some sort of trouble in their energy market?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u54	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says I don't give much time for going the other way. I don't give much for it because there's nothing in the third energy package for that. To make good use of the security service at the EEA Convention, to go on that adventure, Iceland's absolute interests need, to be needed. That's why I don't think it's entirely unreasonable to go to it because of the third energy package. Hv. A senator has been with me on the committee and has found answers to all the questions that have come up, and I think they were quite clear. Regarding the second point: Does something hide in the third energy package for consumers? Don't you think everybody's in pretty good gear here? Yes, e.g. The first and second energy package. Because of the consumer policy that it presents, energy sales can be replaced. You can e.g. reduces the cost of energy for one family about 30,000 a year, and I know that it matters a lot of families. The energy market competition is a major factor in the lives of families in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. Specialist of the majority opinion, Álúluga Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn's daughter, for his speech. I am one of those who have serious doubts about the so - called "presidents, " as some have described. When the case in Norway was settled, I wanted to ask why. A member of the council what they had accomplished and how much men count today. Hv. A senator then spoke about - and I would like to ask if it is in her word or if she is there referring to the words of Bjarni Már Magnússon, a judge at the University of Reykjavík - that joint statements and warnings were quite binding. Of course, this may be a mistake. But if it's not a mistake, I'd like to know if it's a bad word. When it was said that statements such as these were quite binding, I assume a senator or a member of the Committee, Bjarni Már Magnússon, the son of Mike, would be expected. The main question, though, turns to the warnings and warnings made in Norway, what their outcome was, and whether they had thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. First about Norway and the warnings made there. There is no evidence that they did not think so. Nothing. That is very clear when you study the matter well from the government in that country. For what I quoted at the BjarniMár it wasn't quite accurate. He says: These are important political statements. So we believe that these warnings are valid, and they may need to be distinguished from national rights as well as national rights. He and others say that this is both political binding and national binding. That's what's important in these warnings. Actually, these warnings confirm that we are an island. I don't think that should surprise anyone in particular. After we have received it both from the European Union and the EFTA countries, after we specifically recommend it and refer to it when we eliminate governmental warnings, we further document that common understanding. The common understanding is rather simple. We are an island, and we are not connected to the EU electricity market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm sure it will make many Norwegians happy to hear that they've all thought it was the bad warning. In fact, the following discussion may be related, but let us put it to work. The Senator explained that everyone had really more and less in the way of the matter agreed to the warnings and views we have expressed. Then you must further ask what might be the point of temporarily sending the matter, one quick bus, to the joint EEA committee and humbly request that the alarm come in from that direction. I know that it would calm many people today. Given the receipt as the head of the majority opinion, I don't believe that I don't believe that the receipts of the European Commission will be good. [[The president calls.]] Why would that one group rebel against all our good and reliable views?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u58	A respectable president. Norway's predecessors were one-sided. They're not here at all. We have received confirmation from the EU and EFTA. This does not change, however, that although they have only been one side, they have not created any trouble and no comment on them. I think it's frightening to say otherwise about this warning. With regard to the other factor mentioned by the senator, we have received from the joint EEA committee and the EFTA confirmation of our declaration. I think that's consistent with the speculations that have come up. The confirmation is not only from the European Union itself but also from the EFTA countries of the common EEA committee, and I would think it would be enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. President of the State Department. I must admit that I wonder a little about the urgency that I find helpful in handling this matter. It is clear that the main proposal for Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Már is that, in the power of the decision in the EEA Treaty, there will be a search for reconciliation on the scene of the joint EEA Committee. In writing to the secretary of state, they have restated their proposal. So there is no legal opinion to form at the same time, the other way, which I allow to call. There's no legal opinion about it. It hasn't been tested or analysed. We were told at a meeting on the Foreign Affairs Board by a highly respected lawyer that this was a home bridge, as has been traced. The question is, Why not discuss matters that are so significant? As indicated, on page 40, in the opinion of the Árni and of Már Moas, a power agency that is not considered to be minor may not be considered. True, with a few simple words, they compare ESAs to being entrusted with power to determine the maximum power in the seas. Here they have called warning bells that can't escape anyone's notice. What's the hurry? Why is this issue not examined further and obtained legal opinions of the sort that I mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u60	A respectable president. Hv. The urgency of the matter is discussed by a member of the body. As far as I know, this case has been discussed in the conference since 2010. By then, I had not even begun meditating on going to the council. The subject has received a tremendous deal of discussions, both here and in society during the past few weeks, certainly. That's why they took over the highest. Ministers, therefore, seriously considering the matter, taking a good look at it, get all the opinions. And as shown by the number of visitors we received, and I read earlier. It is very difficult to say that there is a hurry to the matter. Here we are discussing the matter in a second discussion. Hv. A member of the committee last Friday was well aware of the facts and did not reason or comment on them. Regarding the way that Stefán Már Stefánsson and the Friðrik Árni Hirst also suggest and is not gone here, but not considered the need for it because of the third energy package, they wonder about certain questions in their opinion of what happens. They cannot answer that question and say that there is an uncertainty factor in the other way. That is why we received opinions from both Carl Baudenbacher and the International and European Court of the University of Reykjavík to answer what happens, the uncertainty factor, to assess it. The committee discussed this and concluded whether it was a real way we wanted to go on this matter. The conclusion is that we don't want to. Therefore the other way in which they set forward is also a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The personal question was, in fact, not answered. Why is there the data I didn't mention acquired? The path that has been selected is totally untested. There is no legal opinion about it. However, it is rather inexpensive, I allow myself to say, to cast it upon the uncertainty of the way they suggested they themselves that it follows no legal uncertainty. Thus, no right can be held according to the way this is going to follow uncertainly. It is quite morning's light that it follows a great deal of legal uncertainty, since this trip is in an unsupervised area. There are no sources or rules in the EEA community. One other thing that has not been investigated is what is the possibility that in a peaceful partnership with the European Union, it would prefer to use the punishment or revenge measures just for seeking reconciliation therapy on the basis of the agreement itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u62	A respectable president. However, the guests and experts and scholars who came before the committee, Skúli Magnússon, Davíð Þór Friðriksson, Ólafur Jóhannes Einarsson, Birgir Tjörvi, the Pétursson of Kristín Haraldsdóttir, all feel that it doesn't even need to be a warning. Here we are facing a particular point of view that appears in one report written and made legal notice, which will be confirmed by the EU, by the EFTA countries of the EEA Committee. I'd say we had not only belts and bracelets but also hung up somewhere. We're responding to what is presented only in one opinion. All the other opinions are considered unnecessary. The lawyers came before the committee, as well as the other lawyers who had this comment, and reported it. As far as I know, there was no hurry to the committee in all its good work and in the implementation of the Commission here. All the guests asked for in the first two weeks of the procedure were taken before the committee and the answers are decisive and clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u63	A respectable president. I would like to represent the minority opinion of the State Department, but before that, I'd like to say a few words about the big movie, the bigger picture we have to discuss here. Such an opinion may sometimes be a bit technical, although not entirely. But as a result, I think it's good to start by putting this matter into context and briefly mention what we're really talking about here. What's going on with the third EU energy package? If we look beyond the speculations of government officials on the benefits of one - side warnings and questions as to whether any man in Brussels has acknowledged that Iceland is an island, we have nothing to worry about what we're accepting here. What is it really going on? This will work out to link Europe's electronic energy market with a special agency, a special authority source and monitoring. It's gonna work out, too. breaking up an enterprise that seems too bossy in its area. On the other hand, it goes primarily on to the point that the Icelanders take power to the extent that it plays at least There is considerable doubt that this will pass on the Republic's constitution. It should move men to stop for a bit rather than to throw together some local company notice, the General Declaration of what it wants to be, and to quote some commissaries in Brussels who recognizes that Iceland is an island. That's why we can process all of this, but we won't have to follow what we're doing. This system of government and its supporters should be designed to cause concern and to cause us to look into this issue. And many have done so in the community. This has caused many anxieties, and people have adopted themselves to fight for the rightness of a politician, a general government. But then we react by running the matter through, packing the case in - package itself - at home ready for warning, saying that we can do it together without worrying that we need nothing to follow what we're doing. What, then, can be the result? I'll track it down from here on out and maybe. in more talks than they can cause significant damage to Icelandic society. It can impair our competitiveness by both environmental and economic views. They can cause industry to move from Iceland to the end of the country's competitive preludes. Such changes would have led to the loss of particularly on Iceland's national and commercial roads, all around the country. But then on the minority opinion, a respectable president. A smaller part of the State Department feels that the implementation of a third energy package of the European Union lasts its constitution and reveals a serious concern about the power source involved in its introduction and the impact on the future energy policy in Iceland. This will begin with the section on energy development in the EU. The European energy market is not new. In around 1990, there was a significant debate about the need for a relationship's electronic capacity, which included: they were looking at property and energy sources. In 1996, regulations aimed at counteracting the monopoly of several major sources of energy markets produced and transported energy. Energy market freedom was to be promoted, and it can be said that energy is actually defined as market first. Thus came the input of the first electricity directive. The development of the energy market continued, and the second electricity directive was introduced into Icelandic rights. The EU has not stopped. A third energy package is turning to catch up the EU's power in the energy market. It can be said that the term "energy package' did not occur until it was associated with the third energy package. The introduction of the first and second energy package was a talk of the first and second power directives, which consisted of the induction of a single electrical directive each, and one geothergastrary directive from which Iceland received an exception. The EU's ideas have developed, however, and the aim of one synthetic internal energy market is now clear. Thus, in view of the Community's opinion, it is not enough to include electronic directives; it is necessary to set laws directly involved in the Member States of the EU. The whole structure of rules is binding and is recorded on national terms as such. In contrast, directives are binding to their goals and to every state self-importantly and with the means that these goals are achieved. Thus, the development of a third energy package consists mostly of regulations. Protocol EB No. 713/2009 deals with the Rapporteur's Cooperative Department of Energy market, ACER. Protocol No. 714/2009 then discusses the integration between EU countries, including the EFTA countries within the EEA, and that it will be implemented in the EEA Convention. The rules indicate that ACER has national authority over Iceland. Now I reiterate what I mentioned on the basis of the differences between regulations and regulations, that regulations are binding in the whole. The two relevant solutions to the decision of the European Commission No. 93/2017 includes decisions made from the EFTA, ESA, based on a number of ACER derived decisions. Obviously, this arrangement actually means that the real decision - making power remains with the ACER. This supranational authority will take an even closer look at the decisions taken at paragraphs 7, 8, and 9. Regulation (EB) No 37/2010: 713/2013. The target described in the EU third energy package and a planned plan, e.g. In the four energy pack, the EU's priorities are developing in linking Europe's electrical energy systems, increasing access to renewable energy, and extending their management to the European Union and its institutions, especially ACER. Clearly, there is much political emphasis on this project and the removal of what the relationship looks like to be an obstacle to that subject, whether technical, commercial, or political. It is necessary to examine the energy package and its impact in this light and to look to previous examples showing that when national interests conflict with the EU's global interests, the above have always had to be replaced. That's the market for energy. One thing that has not received enough attention is the market for energy. Since the 1990's, the European Union has been working to increase the competition in the processing, sales, and distribution of energy that the relationship defines like any other product. The relationship has been difficult to let this market work as expected. Therefore, the European Union has gradually changed its laws and regulations in order to master the energy market. A third pack of energy is a factor in that very road. While the European Union is working hard to ensure that energy is equal to each other's laws, it is reasonable to ask whether the right course was in place or whether we are on a bad path. You can ask if you might be. It has come to admit that it has been a mistake to implement EU energy directives and thus participate in making energy each other a commercial product. The European Union of Iceland, however, points out that the third energy package cannot be cut off from which basics are to be owned and excluded from market laws. Electricity is a basic service not to be subject to the market at any time, but market areas have generally not supported improved services, reduced prices, or improved staff status. Then Ögmundur Jónasson writes in his review of the synopsis: ▪ Those against this development - i.e. The marketing authorisation - ◯ opposed an approved first and second energy package and makes it even more logical to oppose the approved packages as well as the follow-up. In time, we will lose as a community custody of the energy, resources and processing, and will direct the market's operations, ending the case in this way by the Minister and on the Board's web. If so, see why it is against Icelandic interests, although it is not a full list of them. In my opinion, it is clear that the third energy package's objective is not compatible with Iceland's interests. This is true not only of the link between EU electricity systems but also of the EU, where the relationship takes place. The energy prices and the resources needed to replace electricity companies. In the United States, environmentally friendly renewable energy is produced at a considerable lower price than in Europe. In this country the energy is produced mostly by one company in the public market. So the aims of breaking up large enterprises in energy production and increasing by competitiveness are not relevant here and actually convert to their resistance with regard to consumer protection objectives. The energy resource is one of the most important, even the most important, Iceland's resources. Icelandic homes and businesses benefit from an adequate supply of clean energy at a lower price than any other European level. In addition, energy gives the nation an important advantage in investing and building jobs on the land. This advantage is on the basis of environmental energy efficiency, but also on the basis of providing energy for favorable prices. The induction of the third energy package prevents this competitive precipitating and, in fact, destroyed by full induction and association with the common energy market, on the basis of the European Union. No longer can it be said that a company in Iceland will use clean energy, and they will buy energy from a panEuropean energy source where everything is screaming together, nuclear energy, coal, oil and gas burns and other manufacturing methods. The preparation of this is already initiated by the sale of so - called ◯forbidden letters where contaminated energy manufacturers in Europe buy the source certificate of Icelandic manufacturers. With the European energy market, as is now being developed within the EU, such a origination would have become real, not merely a perfunctory. Then there will be questions about why it is necessary to operate in Iceland rather than in continental Europe, where production is closer to the market. This reduces the appeal of the country as an investment and increases the chances of making aluminium plants, for example, you will bring their work closer to the international traders in Germany. There would also be an increased chance that the production would move to countries such as China, where production costs are less than pollution and climate change are much higher. The economic motivation for the production of the European Union is a growing economic incentive for the production of the European Union. Transport costs are added, but energy costs will be the same as in Europe. It would seem that this would be particularly dangerous in the country and would put thousands of Icelanders and financial factors at great risk. This applies not only to heavy industry but also to agriculture, marine soil, and other sources that benefit from the ability to buy energy at better markets than on continental Europe. In this context, we can point out the declarations of Hörður Arnarson, director of Land Implementation, that the implementation of the third energy package would weaken the company's contract position against the aluminium producers. These words cannot be interpreted as different from the foreman's checking the country's link to the European electropower system using a cable as the natural consequence of the energy package and resulting in higher energy prices. In cooperation with ACER and ESA. ACER has an average of to ensure that Member States comply with their duties in accordance with the requirements of the third energy package. They assist the ACER Rapporteur on energy markets in the implementation of EU legislation and if necessary agreeing their actions. The evidence that there is no abnormal power room in which ESAs will be involved in the application of the power that ACER has to the EU countries to the extent that the EU does not have a deeper degree of power, as ESA role is primarily expected to be to enforce guidelines from ACER. ESAs will be authorized to provide indications for ACER, but in this case they can be expected to be primarily related to the state of which the Agency is monitoring the targets of the third energy package. So I'm paraphrasing this, a respectable president: This additional ESA performance turned them to point the ACER into that if they weren't fulfilling the goals of the third energy package rather than taking up a glove for that state. This makes it clear that the ESA's arrival is at best a token. At worst, it is in particular increasing the pressure on member countries of the Agency to implement ACER and the European Union policies. As a result, it has been found that the EU has repeatedly used the ESA's interpretation of the effectiveness of the EEA Convention rather than the role of EU Member States. The ESA's situation against the ACER makes it a significant matter that is passed by the two supporting systems, as well as in the legal views available in the case. In this exuberance of power to an institution that the Icelanders are no part of except for an audience. Those who support the Senate arrangement have repeatedly stated that Regulation No. 714/2009 on integration of countries is not meaningful during the absence of marine cable to Iceland and the decision cause of ACER under the Regulation No. 713/2009 focuses mainly on decisions that result from the position formed when there is a connection between countries, i.e. A cable. What follows, however, is that the introduction of these two directives is initiating the ideologies, the objectives, and the tools responsible for one common and linked energy market in the EEA region. The market is already linked to a large part of the EEA. This approach, therefore, is an incredibly carefree approach. There is reason to be deeply concerned about the government's policy not to answer the fundamental questions that are now raised by recording and induction but to postpone them until convenient time later. The opinions of Stefán's Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst are particularly concerned with the importance of taking a stand on issues of opinion before a administrative notice is lifted from the decision made by the joint EEA committee. Nothing can be changed thereafter. Next, Iceland's role in Europe's electricity system. The purpose of the third energy pack is to include: contributing to projects defined as priorities for the European Union's electric energy system, in English: Projects of Common Interest or PCI. Connection to Iceland, IceLink is the project called, one of these projects. Foreign Minister has claimed that Iceland has been removed from this list, but this does not seem to be the case with information from the European Union and the ACER. Specific regulations, including those listed, apply to such activities. it ensures that governments are obliged to promptly inform ACER about the motivation of investors to attack such projects and keep the Agency informed so that they can monitor that their projects do not meet obstacles. It is of interest to consider the example of Cyprus's linking to the European electrical system by means of a spherical cable, which was performed under the direction of the ACER, the one responsible for and leading a course. A respectable president. Next thing I know, I'm going to get to the politics and opinions they're dealing with. The implementation of a third EU energy package is in accordance with the Constitution. In the opinion of Stefán's Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst on a administrative case due to the third energy package, as well as a document of the Parliamentary Syllabic Directive, it is warned against a variety of administrative concerns involving the uptake and induction of the third energy package. In view of the lack of cross-border base structures, e.g. Navigator cables have not been set up in this country. There is no reason, then, to wonder whether the power supply to ACER and ESA will last. It is important to realize that when the administrative warnings are removed from the third energy pack, this also applies to the Commission Regulation (EB) No. 713/2009, which includes the rules and authority of the ACER. Following the reduction, Iceland earns its national commitment to implement the Regulation into national rights. Therefore, Iceland is obliged to adopt the Regulation in Icelandic. Another would be the violation of Iceland's commitments, which could lead to the ESA's appeal of treaties against Iceland. That is why it is necessary to decide now whether a third energy package will succeed in the constitution, and that is, before the General decides if a administrative decision should be made against the decision made by the European Commission. There will be no turning back. The subject is mostly 8 p.m. The above Regulation (EB) No 37/2010: 713/2009, who hides ACER power to make certain decisions relating to transport systems that carry electricity between countries that form a common EU electricity market. Let's be 8 o'clock. The Commission will adopt the EEA Convention and introduce it to the Icelandic people correctly in the same form, the directive will include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which would otherwise be in the hands of the Icelandic government. I'm going to repeat this sentence, a respectable president: The Commission will adopt the EEA Convention and introduce it to the Icelandic people correctly in the same form, the directive will include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which would otherwise be in the hands of the Icelandic government. ESAs will thus be entrusted with the authority to make decisions that bind the European government to national rights. These decisions lead to the use of a limited resource consisting of electrical transport capacity for infrastructure across borders. The results of the report are clearly stated, by permission of the president: ▪ There is no precedent for such authority to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. I think it's worth rereading, with president's permission: 'Counsels are not precedents for that kind of authority to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention.' In other words, there is an unprecedented use of power. Már the FriðrikÁrni who are not there, do not doubt whether the power supply is going beyond what rests within the laws of the Constitution. This particularly applies to the fact that ESA decisions are made on the basis of EU Regulation No. 713/2009 is in the foundation of the ACER preparation, and the effect of ACER on the specificity of ESAs must therefore be considerable. At that time, national monitoring authorities are obliged to implement and implement ESA decisions. Therefore, an energy agency would be obliged to enforce the ESA decision that the national rights to those involved, e.g. national power companies and users of the electrical power system. Thus, the actual content and right effects of ESA decisions are also relevant to individual interest and legislation, in contrast with the opinion of the greater part. In this case, ESA decisions are not revised by the European Court but by the EFTA Court and consider Stefán the Már and Friðrik Árni to be strict requirements for the implementation of the Constitution. In this context, it is a long tradition for a person to be viewed as being well reserved and defined, that it did not protect a person's legal rights and rights. Already, they tore up Stefán Már and Friðrik's views of the Árni before the deed defended the legal status of individuals and lawyers. The report shows that it is difficult to view the initiative as being well reserved and defined. On the contrary, ESA's power sources are unclear, and it cannot be seen that the separation and definition of the power agency meet the rich demands made by this kind. Since there is an unprecedented use of power, there should be sufficient reasons for us to approach the earth with caution. When scholars use a backdrop to prevent the introduction of the procedure, it is necessary to keep up - to - date and look into the matter. The New World Translation does not provide special authority to contribute government to the international institutions, so each case of doubt needs to be evaluated. When there is an alternative based on a solution in the political field, we should accept it. Within EFTA, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein are equal when it comes to cooperation on the basis of the EEA Convention. We should not shrink back to taking the matter back on the scene of the joint EEA committee which is designed to communicate matters and reach an acceptable conclusion for all. What are we afraid of in that matter? And then, what has been talked about, including ... moreimprovement and discussion over the past few days, impact on the EEA Convention. It has been claimed that the Icelandic government cannot use the sources that the EEA Convention allows us to refer the case to the European Commission and ask for legal, legal, legal, notation. Such an attitude is deeply concerned about how the Icelandic government approaches this agreement. The EU's opinion that Iceland has done well with the implementation of EU regulations, and particularly the previous energy package, has now been used as a reason for the need for a third energy pack access. A respectable president. I see now that the time that I have in mind is running out of this speech, and I am not quite finished with the opinion of the committee. So I'm gonna pray to the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this minority opinion, although I consider it to be little new since the previous discussion, of course the committee has covered many things. I'd like to ask you what. A senator telling us where the energy pack three contains the release of the power resource at the hands of the deed. Then I'd like to ask where an energy pack of three is told that someone has the right to break up big companies like Landwork. And then, since I have a little longer, about the two-part system. Hv. A senator agreed to agree with the financial regulations. It goes further according to many scholars. Hv. A senator approved them. Has he abandoned them or given up everything, or has he become such an exorbitant?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u65	A respectable president. It is easy to start by answering the last question. Of course, I object to all the government companies to foreign institutions that do not fit in Iceland's Constitution, to be clear. And at least at the right time. The senator's argument, unfortunately, that we have heard so many times before in this discussion, is that because people may have made a mistake in the past and given overpower, there is no reason to protect the Constitution now, it is likely the most substantiated argument that has been presented before the approved third energy package. With regard to previous questions about where the energy package is and the legislation to be found, I will specifically trace it to the next or to the next part of my talk, review these directives for support. I got it. I got it. A senator to keep an eye on it, for all of this is very clear. The goals are clear and the rules are clear, so it is best to look directly into the energy package itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u66	A respectable president. Thanks for that. Hv. A senator puts words into my mouth by saying that we are not concerned about the entire body of authority. All the work presented here is based on that question. That's why we got so many scholars to describe it and to give the answer to that subject. And that is very clear, most scholars find the same conclusion that even the warning is unnecessary, and one makes the suggestion. But since the Senator did not comment on where this was to be found, it is clear that Iceland continues to have full custody of the energy resource and the third energy package is not in charge of energy resources in Iceland. We're out of business. A senator is equally interested in the constitution in the office of authority. Hv. A senator picks Már Pás' view from an opinion. But what Stefán Már also says is that there is no legal question that the route here is in harmony with the constitution. [[The president calls.]] Will he overlook that fact?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u67	A respectable president. I've never claimed that with the third energy package, we'd be giving up the ownership of resources. This is about the authority that the European Union, and especially the ACER, receives over how to control it. Of course, it is very interesting that at the same time as the management parties claim that while the country is not yet connected, we should present a bill to change the Power Institute so that it can become a so-called national rule for ACER. It is extremely strange for a person to try to excuse himself for taking such risky action as are announced here by claiming that some men have said that all of this might escape. Let's see what's real. Let's carry it, for example. Together with the consequences of... [[Stephen Pál.]] Yes, there's a special question about Stefán Már, and I'll answer that. Már Barvar... [[The president calls.]] I will seek to finish answering these questions in my next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u68	Mr. President. Last answer said "what." paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's compliment that there certainly was poor evidence that someone had done something wrong at some point. But there will be no doubt about the matter. Because if you were. A senator would have rode into the councilhouse on a white horse, and he would never have found the matter any more understandable. But in view of the fact that he uses both the terms "original" and the "irreverent" terms, I must ask. Since he has come to this opinion now, whether it was amazing and careless during his prime season when we were on our way to negotiate the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u69	A respectable president. For the first thing concerning the white horse, I have searched for it: but beasts shall be illegal, and shall not be kept in the house of the council. But maybe someday he can meet me out here in the East. With regard to the question of my prime minister, which seems to be based on one of the unscrupulous conspirators, which I now believe in this case that Björn Bjarnason set in motion, it is, of course, an allegation. A senator and others who play such fallacy should have no stronger basis for their argument. This case has never been on my level. In fact, this case came first into the 2017 joint Commission. And then, of course, it would have been right to interrupt. However, although that has not been done then, and although it has not been done in 2013 or 2003 or 1999, it cannot be viewed as a basis for making this great mistake now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u70	Mr. President. I can accept it doesn't justify anything, and it's free to change everyone's mind. The best thing to do is to live. But I'm just asking what. A senator getting back into this sermon and claiming that the case was never on the table of his government in 2013-2016. Also, there are many factors in the report that refer to the possible consequences of a cable. We've already made some money here, and we've got it all figured out, and everyone agrees that there's never gonna be a cable here unless it's up to the Allied. Hv. At any rate, a senator must accept that while he adds concern that a cable could possibly lead to a high electrical price and it needed to fit it, he would still want to set up a schedule and examine the serious social and economic benefits that could include such a project. Here's why. A senator simply out of opportunism to use the case to address what he completely disagreed with himself about a few years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u71	A respectable president. I call the president's attention to what. A senator did not give an example of having disagreed with me, nor can he do so. But he went back into Bjarnason's son's manual and mentioned my meeting with David Cameron about a cable. Again I say: It tells me a story about a topic when even the chairman of the United States has to read a handbook from Björn Bjarnason about how the Independence Party can best protect it from entering here a case that is opposed and has inferred against. But well, well, well. A senator has promised to help the government pass this issue, and it may not be so farfetched that he accepts guidance from the independent group of those subjects. But as for the cable, it should be. A senator studying the matter before he spoke as he did because before deciding to look at it and after it, I made it clear publicly that this was not done at all to show that it was not suitable to place a sea cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u72	A respectable president. I noticed in a committee party earlier. A senator's very good match for no statement in the committee opinion itself that the induction of this energy package results in an aviational cable. He mentioned that someone else values it, someone else must reach that conclusion. Actually, it's not the same understanding as what I'm putting into it. The committee's opinion is covered by a senator. Away from that, I'd like to suggest one thing at a time. A senator and get his opinion on this. Today, there is nothing permanently complex about laying a cable. Any law would have to be approved by the General. There would have to be some rules, I presume. In fact, there is also the need for order. At any rate, there is no legal question now about laying a cable. In this case, the alleged political debate is presented at a time when and if a cable were laid. Would it not make it more difficult to enact a cable following the approved case rather than to simplify it, since it is now not a perfunctory doubt, no one like that? After the third energy pack in Iceland law, however, the transpiration of transponder cables has become a matter of administrative doubt. Same as what. A senator is about. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u73	A respectable president. This was an excellent request because it drew out what I've actually tried to point out to myself, that if there were any restraints in the warnings and that the measures taken by the government would actually be in order to reduce the bodies on the sea cable would be laid, you would not expect the leading spokes of such a procedure to be opposed to the use of this form of energy? But that is not the case. On the contrary, they are very forward, and they struggle to do so, including. With the help of the P.R., this case is through. And why would that be? Because they know what it is, and they know what we all members of Congress should realize, that it's all part of the same clockwork, that it's part of preparing the market for this opening and that it can sell Icelandic electricity at a much higher price than it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u74	A respectable president. I try to make it a habit not to draw conclusions from where things come from, who writes what I read, but what I read. What the energy package says is in it regardless of who wrote it. In fact, no matter why it is written. It just says what it says. Eight. Regulation 713/2009 is nothing that could possibly have anything to say in Iceland until the sea cable comes because it has nothing to do with just a sea cable. That's all she's got to do with it. There's nothing in this article that has nothing to do with anyone in Iceland unless there's a cable. It's like making a law that can't paint a house that doesn't exist. However, the warning is to delay activity of 8 g. until a cable was laid. Then it is a legal issue. A senator talks about it. In other words: Sea cable fixation should be more difficult after this energy package has been introduced, but not easier. It matters because such a large and important part of reasoning is already there. A candidate in the case evidently depends on the laying of a cable, the raising of prices, and all of that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u75	A respectable president. Actually, I agree with what. A senator is too much of what he said. I'm simply pointing out how preposterous it is to introduce a system that is going to be tried at the same time to avoid gaining value. Why? Why, then, is it all gone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u76	To please you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u77	If it really doesn't matter, what's the government trying to force against the third energy package? [[It's a consumer protection.]] - Who said consumer protection? That is one of the most desirable things in all of this, but I enter it in my second speech. However, all of us must recognize that this is part of the European Union in achieving the targets described in the energy package. We have seen how far the European Union is willing to go to achieve its goals, even when we have felt that we have some warnings. Isn't it a matter of allowing the import of raw meat and unfrosted and unquenchable foods? [[The president calls.]] Which is the conclusion that the above - mentioned Stefán Stefánsson said was wrong. But it's the European Union policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u78	Mr. President. Maybe we're ready to do a little mollusk. The context sheet of the memory section shows only that the purpose of the third energy package is to contribute to projects defined as priorities for the linking of Europe's energy systems, of connections to Iceland, i.e. IceLink. We are not on this list unless we took the initiative. It was Landing and Landsnet that wanted to be on this list. And if you know, in January 2015, the Government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnulson agreed to ask these companies to apply to be on this list. This was done with an approved memo from the then highest level. Industrial Minister and was approved in the government, but with the advance that there is no further commitment on the part of Iceland to request registration on this list, which is now quite valid. A pilot now makes himself suspicious. [[The president calls.]] So what? paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, has come with a direct and clear answer to a cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u79	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u80	A respectable president. This is where two senators asked me questions. I don't know which one to answer. On the one hand, it is the senator who stated that there would be no effect on this list, so it would have been clear that it made no commitment, and the senator who tried to use it as a reason to say that I came directly to the sea cable. This, of course, is a very impressive presentation, such as so many in this matter. At least I'd like to commend myself. A senator for mentioning that it was a industrial minister - in fact, he forgot the ability of each class - to see the Independence Party involved in this assignment. Because I thought that the Independence Party was beginning to forget its involvement in former governments, as he now often accused the United States of being without memory. But as for this IceLink project, I've always been the opinion, a respectable president, that it's right to discuss things, to examine them, but not to make any commitments in this matter. [[The president calls.]] And what we're doing here, this is exactly a commitment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u81	Mr. President. We independents will not forget our involvement in the government at any given moment. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. We did things especially well, and we are proud of it. But when it's made it hard for us to be on IceLink's list, it's all right to know that it had an approved government at the same time. A senator, under his seat, as it was decided. And yet another: The same year is one of the largest steps in bringing in the third energy package in Icelandic just when the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugason agreed to implement a system plan in Icelandic law before the joint EEA committee had introduced the energy directive. That's one of the biggest steps we've taken here in Iceland bringing in the third energy package in Icelandic law. [[The president calls.]] And it was the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnul.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u82	A respectable president. Now it's a little far gone by. A senator when he is beginning to pick up things that are the matter -- I don't say inconsistencies, but have nothing to do with the introduction here. End, as I mentioned earlier, the situation first entered the EIONET joint committee in 2017. But I can't help but, in the light of this approach. A senator, but he drew out one more painful way for this to be done, if he must be based on trying to look for some events in the past to justify what humans are doing today. And then I'll just declare it, a respectable president: If I hadn't ever done something I could have done to keep the government from bringing this third energy package right now, I'm gonna apologize for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u83	Mr. President. To a considerable extent, the last objection was to the memory of various politicians and even to classes. It is this with memory loss that the head of the minority opinion brings out. There are many reasons, and some things you just can't control. Another matter, and maybe worse, is something called a selective memory. It is when people draw up facts only on their own and forget something else because even if this case had happened to the joint EEA committee in 2017, various solutions, separate, two solid solution had been established in the government's time. I think it's the time of the day. The prime minister was directly involved in the suggestion. A senator, Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magnótir, to take an electrical transfer to other countries from a directive, has been removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u84	This isn't right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u85	Of course, there could be a very long talk on the subject. She has been given publicity in the media and in community media, and she has aroused the interest of the people who are good. But there have also been big words in the discussion, and in some way the situation has had a divisive effect on society. However, senators have the privileged position of working directly at cover - up issues and researching them. We have access to the opinion of the most skilled experts in each case, as well as those and others who showed special interest in the case, often attend a meeting with us. So we are under obligation to attend these meetings and study the viewpoint of these people. Our responsibility in complicated, controversial matters is then to prove facts as far as we can and destroy standards. What may be special about this issue is that one of the main topics has been discussed about things that are not at all contained in the pack. Interestingly, even politicians have promoted such things, thus conscious or unconscious, fueling insecurity and fear. That's not a small thing at all, Mr. President. Of course, it is not new to sort a ship into a formation and deal with the situation, but it may be special that those who are faithful and opposing, to me, would seem to agree on the basics, even though the induction is not about them. But let's go over them a little. First, all here who express themselves seem to agree that it is fundamental to the fact that our resources are in national property. Number two, to protect Icelandic energy resources as well as other resources. Third, the profit runs to the nation to the full. Fourth, the use of resources should be self-sustained with a balance between economic, social, and environmental support. Finally, most who express themselves that the few big companies of public property that most use energy resources are normal, if they continue. This harmony is, in itself, a cause for rejoicing, and especially for us in the United States, which has claimed this since the formation of the sect. It leads to thinking that there is a need to ensure that, so that there is absolutely no doubt about the resources, each one of them. That's why we have to put the resources rules in a constitution. In fact, I suppose most, the majority of the public who are now concerned about this induction, would be much better if politics were to handle that assignment. In fact, we might also save our leading executives many hours and many steps at the General Assembly Committee if we also set out expeditors that clearly outlined the ways of the General Assembly which it would be permitted to participate in international cooperation. Why is it that those who are now more eager to speak against the induction of the third energy package as a most vigorous and even maintain unfounded propaganda claim that we are giving up authority, have also been leading opposers that we change the constitution, is a bit of a mystery to me. I'll just leave that question right here in the gym. Let us hope that there will be a water divorce in that discussion, and that it will be agreed with our views that it is important for Icelandic energy companies such as land activation to always be publicized and that national interests should always be guided when it comes to our resources. Despite all our agreements, let us put our arms around what we are, and let us follow them into the future. You see, it's all very important things. I'm not making any sense, not a minute, of public concern. This discussion has every reason to approach with respect to those who have such concerns. Of course, doing so is best if we keep the facts in mind and correct the wrong information if we encounter them. You see, the third pack of energy has nothing to do with the basics of what I was counting earlier. Otherwise, I'd be against the entrance. Many of the top executive executives have also given their opinion, and everyone has concluded that the use of resources does not result from the introduction of this third energy package and that it is fully in line with the constitution. Some, including Skúli Magnússon, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, Kristín Haraldsdóttir, and others, also say that it would have been quite safe without any warning. I agree with that in my own eyes. On the other hand, I feel that due to the turmoil of the discussion, the concern that people are concerned about the matter, that it is good for them that there will be a decisive result in a vote on this matter, and I am at that majority - mind - control party. Of course, I also expect members of the board of directors who represent this case to support it all, but they do not use members of the government anti - government government as a front to create a way to escape. That's something I trust and believe in. Some of the things discussed here will not have any effect on Iceland, but we are not directly linked to a European electricity market, as many have been suggested. Other factors, which are considered in my opinion for improvement, are subject to the requirement for the possession of transport companies' separation, to the stricter requirement for the independence of electricity and to the increased demand for consumer protection and information. The stage is longer than in the last packets of information and consumer protection, and I think everyone must agree on that. This brings us to the Rapporteur's partnership of an energy market committed to a concordance between the electronics department. This is detailed in the Committee's list of parts of the Committee. Iceland took time for enforcation and adjustment because of local conditions. We did not put them to the fore in another area, and for that, we must always be looked at if we rejected and sent them back to the joint EEA committee at the time we made an informed decision to make comments and to what parts we did not look for. The decision made by this joint committee accounts for such restrictions and adjustments. They may even be touching. natural gas, but also received an exception from the dissociation of transport systems from other operations of the electricity market. It is also permitted to apply for the expanded access of regulations relating to the separation of distribution companies, access to transport and distribution systems, marketing openings and mutuality, if the Icelandic government can show that there are problems for the national electrical systems to record it. Above all, which may be the most important part, was a two - important solution. It's a solution that I think we're all agreed on in terms of security and an ideal position and is actually better than if we were in two-sided contracts, I suppose. Some of those who now believe that the application should have been for further enforcing, refusing to introduce the types, sitting as ministers at the time they were preparing all of this, should have at the time have been done if they felt that we were in danger and danger from this. I also feel that it matters quite a bit to the credible language we heard here. I am convinced that it was not being negligent and complacency that it was done, but completely aware, while giving evidence that it was done by men and women of good faith and conviction. To me, the opposition here primarily concerns politics, to create a political position, and even to undermine international cooperation, including the U.S. The EEA deal. I would be much more honest just saying it because I'm not afraid of a discussion about that deal. True, he has changed, and we need to be powerful, even more powerful, in the interests of others. The agreement is also 25 years old, and it would be rather frightening in the similar world in which we live if it had not changed. That we were still working on a deal that was due to a world the way it was then. Because, of course, the fact is that much of the knowledge we have, many of the threats we face and many of the current issues, simply did not exist when the contract was accepted at the time. Yet, right down to this day, with Europe's change in the world and a change in the agreement, it's one of the biggest success steps that this nation has taken. Then there should be no need for him to turn Iceland into a market of 500 million people. The treaty has created growth, work, protection, rights and interests, increased security, protected environment, and allows us to invest in the future. This agreement allowed us Icelanders to study, travel, live, and learn anywhere in Europe. Our lives have simply been enriched greatly by this contract. The horizon has grown, and Iceland's community has become stronger. The free movement has also led to great flexibility in the workforce, and we need nothing more than to see the economic rates of Iceland in recent years to help us understand the extent to which this free movement of workers has contributed to such events as In the interest of the country. Today, we face giants; poverty, wars, climate threats; and we know that there is no way to attack them unless we have increased international cooperation. We're holding onto the fourth industrial revolution that obeys no borders, where products are produced entirely by laws other than some fishy object and are digital. Then we must beat the table if we feel that there is the slightest indication that we are being crushed from our potential to grow, to thrive, and to participate in the world around us. So, Mr. President, we should discuss a little more what unites us than what divides us. We should not allow political forces to use terror propaganda to dust people's eyes. We are to resist a debatable, selective truth, half truth, and even chapters of misinformation that promote fear and prejudice, either to break temporary political cones or to undermine this important and precious agreement. In fact, the European Union has been placed here during this discussion that this third energy package is seeking power, too much power in Iceland, even control of our resources. Such language is actually dangerous because although Iceland is an island, Iceland is no island, and we will never be able to get into a future world that is not based on much more international cooperation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Mr. President. I'm gonna finish this right now. I'll see if I'm in another speech. But I urge the senators: Because of our unique situation, that we have a very well-payed job of suspenseing ourselves into matters, that we should, of course, keep the truth up, and destroy half - truths and half - truths.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. His senator's speech. I realize when you have a word about what you're saying. A senator is a president of the North American Union. In many ways, such classes have been very successful in history and have continued to pursue their political activities with great faithfulness and success. I wondered, " What is my understanding? ' A senator is in a position to oppose the government in a democracy. In this way, I consider the government's administration at any given time for good works, but it must also support governments. Therefore, I wondered, " The lack of criticism I feel is prominent in my case. ' A senator who spends all his coven to criticize other government opposers who fulfill their role, his democratic role in maintaining. That's why I ask him, "Why is this so? " [[The president calls.]] Is that because of what you're doing? A senator considers this to be a step forward into the European Union that he acts in a practical way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u87	Mr. President. In fact, I think of myself as having my primary responsibilities toward the nation and what I believe is good for them. My role as a fighting dog in command at any given time will only have to take second place. Here I have considered that we are discussing a very important matter that is not least responsible for defending our position in the most precious contract the nation has ever made. Under those conditions, I think my predecessors, North American co-presidents, though many of them may have trashed more votes than I, had done exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u88	Mr. President. I wonder why there is no criticism. A senator and a leader of Icelandic peers. It is in the opinion of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, that the office of authority on the subject cannot be considered minor. They say, with the permission of a president: ▪ This can be compared to some simple one, that ESAs were entrusted with power to determine the maximum power in the marine field. Can alarm be called higher than they do here? Then, by permission of the President, they say: For the reasons mentioned above, and where a power exchange to ESA was passed on to the use and administration of energy resources, the authority permissions of ESAs [...] will not be equal to similar forms of authority given to ESAs obtained after the implementation of the EEA contract, such as the terms of financial market, air security, and disposal rights. I ask, "What is it that explains the complete lack of criticism? " A senator and a leader of equal officers do what is planned here by the government? [[The president calls.]] I look forward to hearing his answer to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u89	Mr. President. First, it is good to mention that through the Norwegian Parliament, Norwegian scientists paid for this matter. When it comes to a lack of criticism, I ask: " What does the Central Party's lack of criticism explain to the Chairman? Wouldn't have been closer, huh? A senator who calls a warning bell call to attend a committee meeting and study the language of those who arrived there? [[Up front.]] I'm going to eat, but.... A senator, that both Skúli Magnússon and Davíð Þór Björgvinsson spent these worries, saying that the office of power was less than the introduction to financial control, which I now remember some of the current middle-class members were involved in accepting here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. Einarsson A good cooperation with the committee also involves his speech and review. It was a pleasure to note that when the committee completed its work, representatives of the General Assembly agreed on the outcome of the matter, apart from the fact that one category, the Central Party, gave a special party. It was an accomplishment. We took care of it, and I think we did what we did. A senator can agree on this. We agree on more, but there are other factors that unite us rather than break up. Hv. A senator named the Constitution, that land activation would remain in public property and that the EEA Convention was important. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Was there anything that came up at the Committee meeting that indicated that the Icelandic State would be subject to harm on the basis of the four freedoms if any party would ever be refused to submit a cable in spite of all the warnings that have been issued on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u91	Mr. President. First, I'm going to say: Yes, we agree on many basics, most if not all of us here in this room, and perhaps it has the most crystals in the discussion that we can begin to change the resource directives of the constitution, the guidelines, and other things that explain all of these matters, and then we can guarantee our control over the resources in a powerful way. No, no, no. A senator, on the contrary. Of course, there were a number of scholars who examined the exact question and answered it over and over again and over again and said that it was an impossible question. There would be so many things, a system plan, planning laws, and things that would simply prevent us from taking the right to make a decision on the inside. So no, I think a few questions have been answered more clearly and more often than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u92	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. Clearly, a senator has a common understanding of what was presented in committee meetings in this regard. Then I'd like to ask. A member of Congress on the way the Central Party has proposed to be sent, i.e. rejection and renovation of the joint committee. We had a good guest before the committee to discuss this specifically, since Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðriksson Furksson Hirst left this question behind, in fact, and in the hands of the Committee. This is what we discussed on the committee, received instructions and information. Does the senator think that this is a good and proper way to establish the basis on which our cooperation in the EEA is based? Does the senator believe that this would further protect Iceland's interests, or does he believe that this way could harm the interests of Icelanders?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u93	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that scholars found that this was a specific emergency, and it would have to be activated when it mattered to him in that way. It was certainly recognized that there is a legal way to handle the matter this way. However, they also evaluated how it would be viewed legally. It was natural to say that there would be many things to be looked at, especially to the timeliness of the subject and how we reacted at the time that was actually expected to give these tips and when we would not. A number of other factors were drawn up that convinced me that it was dangerous to go that way. Besides, more than one and more than two came into the picture that this matter is never just legal, it is also political, and it will have consequences like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, she was now in a half an hour without chapters. Here he was riding around because he was defending the interests of the people and the people of the country, but the rest of us who have doubts about this case, we're only in politics, and we're in the middle of the EEA deal. Of course, this is not acceptable at the highest level. Chairman of the Conspiracy. I would like to ask the chairman of the United States if he had any doubts about the matter before the majority opinion was resolved, the case as it took place when it came from a minister. Were there any doubts about that in mind? A senator and a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and what were they?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u95	Mr. President. It's not as if this directive fell directly onto a man's table without a trace. This matter has been under way for many years of careful consideration, of which access is to be applied, and so on. When the matter comes in first, we will consider it, as in any other case, in a critical manner. Soon we came to realize that in many ways this matter is good. It involves a number of things that look to improvement, such as consumer protection and information protection and other things. The first one is asking me about my last few weeks, and then every meeting I attended increased my conviction and assured us that we were taking progressive steps. I wish everyone had come to the meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Then comes the other thing I wanted to come into my mind. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson. In his talk, he discussed how society and the environment grow over the years. This case developed, it was examined at various time points, but it still seems completely forbidden to look in a different direction than the original one. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson says that society and all things evolved and the deal is 25 years old, but it's not older than that. He listed various things that had changed with him in his earlier talk. Why has the senator so much doubt as to the possibility of anyone changing his mind on the way? So I'm not specifically talking about the Minister of the Government during the 2013st2016 season, but that's just a lot of it. You can see, for example. Now that the senators have more and less changed their view of the matter. So it's extensive, but it's going both ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u97	Mr. President. I have nothing against it, and I have no problem with people changing their mind. I think it is in the best interest of each individual to be able to look at himself and change his mind. However, the individual must examine himself and change his mind, not claiming that the story was completely different from what it was. One of the first things people do, when they find out that they said something, did something, or thought something they didn't want to do, is to accept it. I just don't understand that the head of the Middle Party, huh? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, allows himself to surface here, claiming that things that happened a few years ago never happened. That's what I'm trying to criticize, not that people change their mind. There's been a change of heart. That's cool. I do that many times a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u98	A respectable president. I didn't mean to go back to what I Már. Einarsson I was sitting down in a councilroom and listening to his good speech, for which I thank him very much. What caused me to come up here was when at the end of the talk he began to dissuade that those who did not agree on what exactly is involved with the induction of the third pack of energy could have either a fear -- what should I say? They would even have dangerous language or try to beat political cones. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he really like to say things like this when talking about freedom of expression, communication, and trying to respect one another in this fine hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u99	Mr. President. I just can't understand how it can prevent the freedom of expression by other members of Congress, even though I speak for the mouth of my party and after my convictions and argue that some of the things that have been said are wrong, semi-truth. I haven't held any special senator to it, but I've said this has been the norm. The freedom of expression is so great that other members of Congress come from other categories and then claim things about me and the Controversies and opposing forces. There's nothing wrong with that. I guess you're all right. paritaprevir Sæland Goland, now conjuring members of the council, is not entirely innocent because I've committed crimes against others and myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Freedom of expression? When I talk about freedom of expression, I mean that as soon as you express yourself and think differently, I don't think it's inappropriate to be talking about fear propaganda and all kinds of things. That's kind of what I'm talking about. But this is how to look a little at the subject. A senator on two key systems. So I want to pray. A senator to tell me, e.g. under what the ACER Agency falls in the European Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u101	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator has listened to my speech. I spoke of the duties and responsibilities of members of Congress who are on a dizzy high salary to investigate a case and therefore have the responsibility not to hold, at least not knowingly, wrongly. As for the two solid solution, it's really enough for me - I can't say it in 30 seconds - that our most skilled executives have said it's adequate. Now I'm made so that if I decide to drive east, I'll trust the car manufacturer and sit at the wheel and drive, but I won't go into the engine bay. They have gone over it with us and have described that this will meet the requirements we need to meet for two lasting solutions. In fact, some of them, Skúli Magnússon and Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, have said that this is going on less than in the implementation of a financial watch directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u102	ACER is directly involved in the third European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u103	[[The president calls.]] Well, our guests just didn't agree with you at all. þm. Inga hareland. [[Straightest way there.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u104	Mr. President. The approved or induction of the third energy package is not about the control of national energy sources or resources nor of assault on Iceland's sovereignty. These are my claims, and to them I've given some arguments. The opposition rests on the claims that I consider to be substantiated by the ACER Institute, which cannot resist, on Europe's energy targets which cannot resist, on free flow of products that cannot resist, and on the dangerous losses in Iceland's empires that cannot resist. I'm going to spend my time discussing these things and start with this ACER institution, which we are told will develop in a comprehensive energy power agency, a kind of energy agency in Europe - it will do so and it will force an aquaculture into Iceland. And the evidence is usually expressed, so one thing and another can happen. Yeah, yeah, all right. It would then have legal legislation, such as allowing an investigational license for the fortresses, even the implementation of national organisations, to review the national energy supply system with the final decision to sell to other countries and e.g. selling to the sea cables then and other duties. To me, it's questionable, orbsaw. But what is the general domain of the ACER, this coordination agency of the national organisation? ACER has, in accordance with Regulation, controlled and between countries by active competition for national transparent consumer markets in the EB or EU countries and between them. Then I'd like to point out that in all cases there is a market for sales and consumers with standard trades. These are contracts, two-sided or three-sided. It's an invitation. It's an auction. This is done under the current laws of each country, not by some joint rule of the European Union, nor by the authority of the ACER. I'm asking, is there anything else in the Regulation? Wants what? Don't opposers come and help us see that there are other aspects of the Regulation that I've presented here in a gross way? So let's make this plain. The role of ACER is sanctified by this, including that there are unsolved conflicts between business partners, free business partners, such as companies or enterprises and EU or two countries - for we know that in many countries, energy companies and transport systems are owned - they divide themselves, try compromise, and the decision is needed. It is certainly some kind of overwhelming conclusion. That's a terrible word, super-ethnic. Can you imagine? In fact, we are members of such, many disputes that refer to international institutions in the light of international regulations or agreements. We submit to international data, debate on competitive rules, financial surveillance issues, human rights debate, some kind of food control debate, etc. Every time we adopt, or validate, some form of induction or agreement in the power of a sovereign who allows such things, we give up part of the State rather than part of the sovereignty, unless there is a significant government sale. And that is, in fact, divided in the case of the third energy package, although much of the experts account for the dissociation of the government in this case as acceptable and not considered to be a violation of a constitution. On the other hand, humans allow themselves to be selected as appropriate. There are two experts who are highly respected and who have the most doubts. Everyone else does not have these doubts and go further and say: " We don't need to be warned. The man who has been doing this for 25 years, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, is just as respected as Már the son of Stefánsson. He says so. So they just pick it out for themselves. That's not the kind of scientific thing I do. I'm a lawyer. I lean to more than the one who walks the longest, simply because he may be a bit wrong. He's not the Supreme Court in these matters. Additional special warnings, which are approved e.g. of the EEA joint committee, increases the security this time and is precisely put on because of the opinion of the two leading experts. I think that's an excellent management. But what about the EEA and the third energy package? If the third energy pack has value in those states, the ESA holds this ACER power that I was expounding, based on drag from the ACER. So I'll give it back, it's important that there's a business issue based on the energy transport that is in force every time, not a decision to sell more energy than is available, and it refuses to add its cross-border transport systems. Because that is what opposers say ACER will do, she will get this authority, but they have nothing to do with it. Of course, there is an exception to the fact that if the person directly fails to fulfill or break the free contract, the ACER will come up. That's what this institution exists, just like other organisations with broken contracts. For the forced action of ACER against those who engage in energy production in accordance with the laws and laws of state or are selling electricity from abroad, I have not found an example. Then I challenge the opponents to give an example. Hv. paritaprevir But Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson tried, pointing to Cyprus, but he didn't tell it right. Cyprus generates energy with fossil fuels, solar and wind, and the island will be connected to Greece, Crete, and Israel with a future cable. In the data I've gone through them, I could not find power, only the joint objectives of Cyprus and the EU on the growing part of renewable energy in the country in contracts between the two parties. I found a word of agreement, a word about the Keyman's own decisions as best you can see, so, contrary to the words of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson, ACER was not some post-regissor and a judge of the production for this string or anything, but the person who will come into business with electricity through that circuit at the time. Only then will we find ourselves in our so - called common energy market. The existence of this developed pan-European energy alliance is threatened, sometimes put in a different way, but it is this medium and determined person who makes decisions across the border and across the full control of energy resources. Such language can be successful because this internal energy market in Europe is being linked. It exists, but there is no energy alliance. It's a market that goes out on it, as I've explained, that business from one country to another, or from other countries, goes on in traditional, I call it capitalist if you want it, the market managers, not at any authority. They envision an institution or function of a central institution where sovereigns will be ordered to produce specific energy volumes using specific methods, and also even common prices and finally orders to sell a certain amount of electricity from the country under some kind of Soviet program. This is the prospect of the future that opposers of the third energy package wave in front of an international nation as likely as it is. All of this is to be based on government management of the European Parliament and the Council of Brussels. I think this stage movie is a monopoly. And it may be said that at some distant future, after a disaster, or by war or by anything, something like this might happen. But in the data I have found about Europe's energy policy, this is not to be found. I would like to state, as the labor movement, the common people in many parts of the world, and social elements have insisted that the foundation is to be on public property, and they are here on land, and they are elsewhere. I haven't seen any particular change in that, at least not in Iceland, whatever else there may be in other countries. And then, what was the details of the EU's internal market? It is based on two objectives, cooperation with the potential power markets that countries can or would like to cross borders on the basis of an open market, this capitalist I said, the standard market, and the growing share of renewable energy sources in the total energy production of the continent, and on agreements of the same kind of market. So, on the other hand, it's business with what's available for others and in behalf of the whole continent's climate targets, and I can't be against what's socialist. There's nothing in the third energy package that shows some kind of centralized energy alliance, so I'll repeat it once more. However, it may well be that the EU negotiates in the near future for the state of their own independent programme for energy exchange in the manufacturing and distribution sector, as I did in the case of Cyprus, and for monitoring that agreement. That's not myth. This would likely be in behalf of the dissidents against global warming, not by evil, as rule over natural resources would remain intact. If a third energy pack is introduced here and in the other EU countries, Norway will be part of the internal markets in terms of the natural control of voluntary trades and will end up in a long way of slavery to the mainland over the sea, but Iceland will not be a part of the internal market, unless the sea cable is approved and laid. It is wrong to think of the induction of the third non-wave energy package as an AIDS source for the internal market because the internal market is based on integration of countries. You must understand English. Only free flow of goods. Norway has not lost control of any sources of energy before becoming a member of the third energy package, we are afraid it will be. No one has ordered the Norwegians to sell them and so many megawatts to Europe. It is based on free agreements with both Statnett and Stat forces, other parties and the Norwegian State. That's how it'll stay. There are also no other examples of EU or EU countries losing control over the amount of electricity produced within the country, where and in what way. Examples? Bring them in. And neither that ACER nor other members of the EU are involved in the forcing of transport on countries within or outside the EU. - Swedes are selling Finn's electricity through a cable. Do you find any forced action in that business? It is a ridiculous fallacy, as if a private person or a Norwegian Stat force could require a electrical line to be held in Sweden by a buyer. That's what we're told. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland hareland has asked each other this at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee with visitors and has always received the answers that free flow of goods does not result in this. It means everything else, for the free flow of goods is not free, of course. And why not? The legal environment must always be considered for the particular sale or product production, the nature of the production. Is it electrical or gum? And in some cases also laws on distribution or transport of the product to borders. You can move gum into a truck, but you can transport electrical energy through a very complex system. In each country the power plant has its place in the appropriate laws. It is energy policy, production programmes, generally public and integrated environmental assessments, public permits some energy agency, rural society, statehood, even Congress. There are transport system plans, patenting lines on private countries and nationalities. As for the transwarp cable, there is also a license for land base and economic history. It is costly to argue that the EEA Convention, with its four freedoms and provisions for total control over resources, will open some kind of responsibility which will force a link of electrical lines to other European countries to the EEA because electricity is a product. It simply does not comply with the conditions we know to exist in some cases. Free flow of goods is opened between the four countries free of charge, with contracts and marketing solutions, and it is the government that supports the trade agreement or other agreements. However, there is no obligation to do some sort of high - level contracts or orders not to build an airport, build a big ship, or receive an electrical cable or place it. There's no point in it. I'm not going to use a stronger word. So all the pressure that free flow of the product of electrical energy, like any other, forces us to put sea cables, because ACER says or Brussels says it, is wrong. When the worst is done, and it shall be my last word, the case of some opposers of the third energy pack is wrong, and I say that they are as many as they are different. I also state that I share the concern of people in general as to full control of Iceland's resources, worrying that we will not lose more power or more of Iceland's capital if we say so, but we can possibly endure in the name of international cooperation. But when it's worst, I think that the lawsuit is a serious quest for the facts of energy in Iceland, deportation. I think of the party as not all of them, but some people, spreading very confusing information about government and sovereignty. It's very serious. I think it's an attempt to create a confusing atmosphere around the EEA Convention. That is why it is proper to hold firmly to the arguments on which the latter view the greater part is based and can be read in it. Finally, Mr. President. We work here for a few years at a time, and we've almost built this three - pack of energy with the approval of what is discussed here and then more people are waiting. We've had a small opinion about what the fourth will include, which is a challenge to saving, the environment, and so forth. Perhaps we will destroy something that we are opposed to, which could mean some less control of energy resources, but we will be expected to be on our guard in Brussels. We'll make it a matter of time to make an appointment and don't have to stand here and argue if anyone has fallen asleep on the watch or been green in front and innocent, etc. I recommend that you do what you say. The Senate agrees with the introduction of these two parties and accepts the two prime products involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u105	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking you. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti of Guðmundsson for a very good and illuminating speech. He has also written some articles on the subject that have helped to communicate the right information. As the senator mentioned, it is our job to investigate matters and present them with the right information and make decisions on the basis of them. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the one listed here, is convinced that the review of the Committee has not been satisfactory and that there is something that he believes might have been due to members of the Committee. ... shouldcall before the committee decided to take the case out. I think I've got a pretty good deal on the information that the Senator requested regarding the authority of ACER and the activities of this institution. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is there anything - like this to make this clear - in a package of energy three that includes a waiver over the power of energy resources? Is there something in which the requirement for a state to move a certain amount of energy to another State or to put something to work? Finally--yes, I have a few seconds left--I would also like to ask why. Senator: Is there anything in a pack of three energy that suggests that some in Brussels will decide how energy will be valued in this country in the future? I'm gonna call it a day, and I'm gonna ask you some more questions in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u106	Mr. President. I thank you for the leader. If the review of a committee is going to be very long - I take as an example the last form of transportation that I felt was out of control, i.e. too many guests, etc. - We have to use the time to review argumentative and logical, and that's quite a bit of repetition. In that light, I believe that the committee has managed to make a pretty good decision. Of course, in terms of deed, deed to something, we were giving up because we only had national rules about electronics. We were accepting international power monitor regulations. When you say there's nothing in this package, it's wrong. It's in this package. We're changing only the rules on how to monitor. Both have to separate certain parts from an institution full of other roles and implement the rules by this European standard, let's say. It's also about consumer protection, it's about spreading it, making it easier for people to change power companies, home distribution companies, etc. That's what this is all about. Adopted for energy? No, I can't find anything in that it is, that Brussels is seeking energy. Of course, the European countries intend to have as much renewable energy as possible, but this will never happen in our case unless we agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson for a good answer. I guess I missed the answer to my question about the prices, the prices, whether the senator feels that something in a pack of energy suggests that such a decision will be made in Brussels that electrical prices will rise tremendously, as some have claimed. I also want to ask you why. A senator on the warning given on the case, i.e. bill number one. Industrial Minister as well as the declaration of EU Energy Ministers from March 20, and Iceland's foreign secretary, as well as the EFTA letter involved in the EEA Convention from May 8 of May.: Do the senator agree with me, and not only with me, but also with the experts whom the committee has considered, that these officers stand against the law have national value for the long future? First of all, I'd like to hear the Senator's opinion of whether or not the way the members of the Central Party have spoken before, i.e. that the Council rejects the introduction at this point, if necessary, in view of the interests of the Icelanders. Second, does the senator think that this is a way of moving in view of our desire to continue cooperation with the EFTA nations, at least there's no other reason for this, and stay on with the EEA deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u108	Mr. President. Again: Thank you for the questions and did not reduce them. With the prices - it cannot be seen in any way that the ACER monitoring centre or any central power in Brussels can use electricity prices in Iceland. It's the business that we're here to do. I think it would also be so that in the future it would not have different European countries, if it were. You cannot imagine a common price in countries, a situation so different. On this notice: I have to rely on experts. I'm not a lawyer enough, and especially in the administration and international rights to do anything but say, "Yes, I trust these omens, there are enough people who tell me this will work out, whether it's protected by the Minister of Energy, or the letter referred to from May 8 - and I must not forget the warning of the council itself, i.e. We still have a democratic assembly to decide one thing or another. Bringing it back to the EEA joint committee, as the Central Party suggests, I was also referring to experts, and especially to the Baudenbacher, who I think are talking about with considerable experience and we have to consider as equal to the best experts in this. And if this was necessary, or should this be the necessary way? I don't think so. There are other jurists that go far further in the other direction and say that there is absolutely no need to be ahead of us, and there is no need to worry about the future. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for his speech. Of course, there are a lot of things in this big matter that concern you, and I liked it. A senator admitted that he did not agree with the definition that there was nothing wrong with the matter, as some of its supporters have been claimed. But since it's obvious from the senator's speech that he's already got himself involved, I'd like him to know how it looks to him what the main effect of the approved energy package, if we just talk about all the cases as one package, will be from the agreed case until the resolution of the cable, if it comes to the present position? Then I am, for example. thinking about each other. A senator believes that there is some impact on the possible demands for the dissociation of enterprises. As we all know, Land induction is the largest source of energy in the country. Is there anything there, in the opinion of the senator who opens up such a approach from wherever it might come? What would be the main influence of an approved cable? This is the part of time that has been very little discussed and, in view of how well it is. A senator would be interested in hearing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u110	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. The main effect of the energy package until a cable - now we do not know whether the cable will be on the program in three years or 30, but good. What's going to happen is that the Power Institute has to create a corner where workers work, who monitor electricity exchanges in Iceland, and mostly in the low-efficient public network, the consumer market. This monitoring will be successful in trying to maintain an active competition, critical of all that is critical. They monitor consumer rights and so on. They don't decide what to do. This monitoring cannot be a part of the implementation plans, the system plans of the Landsnet, the energy framework or anything like that. There's nothing else going to happen here. It cost at the beginning 47 million dollars. K. going out on this change, and while there's nothing else here -- now I don't know about the fourth and fifth energy package, there may well be something happening to this office. I can't answer that. Communicating enterprises, Landsnets, Civilizations, the only ones that can help them are ourselves, the council, and the ideas that are here political in the country. A country network belongs to several public companies. They are talking about uniting that special hat all under the Kingdom. Nationalization is also owned by several companies, such as members of Congress know, and it is not available to change anything. [[The president calls.]] So I don't see any changes in the maps.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Trausti Guðmundsson. It'd be interesting to know if there's a problem. A senator counts - if I understand his answer correctly, it is primarily the consumer protection that he looks to change in some way at the source of the energy package, from the introduction to sea cable fixes. It would be interesting to know if he considers consumer protection to be an independent problem, as the market is today. But then I wanted to add a question. Under this rule of energy package, that if there were a personal investor -- there was a lot of talk that we won't be forced, then in understanding, in state, State, State, State, State Fund, man's use of different terms, to place a sea cable - knocked on our door, wanted the full amount of a sea wire, and desired no access to the government, and wanted to connect it with some windmill that he himself had in some corner. How can you tell? A senator realizes that such a parable, so to speak, will be played? What does the book of Order suggest for us? What would the outcome be, as he likes the package to look?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u112	Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór, Ólason, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. This is more than just consumer protection. This is actually a control of business or behavior rather than of distribution. All I'm saying is that I've heard that there were switchers. It's an active competition. If spreaders have been replaced, they have been able to save up to 2,500 dollars. per month. So it's a competition, but no doubt it can be improved. The other is a matter of private investments, and to misunderstandings, that when we talk about transpiring or forcing ourselves to do so, the Icelandic state will never place that cable, 800 billion, or something like that. It'll always be, in my opinion, someone from the outside who comes, whether it's Atlantic Super Connection, who's not successful or IceLink, who is the British state, that's always the way it comes to us. I did quite well to go through the fact that we have to make count of decisions on organizational matters, the evaluation of environmental impacts, and all manner of permission about having power over our heads. That's the kind of thing it takes. I can't imagine some private people wearing it here on a rhythm. But if so, the General would have to agree to it, whether by law or by authority, so that the cable that would set this party up to the coast of Iceland would have to be connected. It is therefore impossible that a cable will be placed here for someone willing to sell a product from the country without a multifold approach to the United States. The United States will never be forced to make those decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u113	V.E.G. President. The debate over the third energy package has drawn the nation's attention to energy policies, resource ownership, and foreign policy. That discussion has been beneficial and relevant to the future. We need to make sure that the energy is owned by the public. We need to change the law on water rights and property on earth in order to ensure a foreign possession. We should also have been using ourselves for only one taxation for the distribution of electricity. Everything that has been mentioned is an Icelandic political bitch. These decisions are in the hands of Icelandic political parties, not in the hands of the European Union. It is also up to us to see if we are going to continue the EFTA work. It's in our hands if we want to land a cable. It is up to us whether we want to remain members of the European Economic Area Convention. Mr. President. The time has come for Icelandic political parties to step forward and identify where they stand in these matters. It's clear where the advance party stands. We want to ensure that the public's possession of energy companies, that land activation will remain in public property and ensure the introduction of land and water rights. We want one and the same price for the distribution of electricity for everyone. We want to strengthen this common foundation and holding, to make up for us, to unite the Landsnet and Rark. We believe that energy resource is one of the most important reasons for prosperity in the country, so we need to ensure that all energy decisions will be made in the hands of Iceland. The panorama believes that linking with Europe's electrical system with cables does not serve national interests. The talk about a three - pack energy discussion in society has been lively. Misdirections have been applied to the real content of the package. Some have claimed that the source of the third energy package would be the approval of the following: 1st To relinquish control of our resources by presenting ACER, the European Commission, authority. 2. That the energy package would have us put sea cables, activates, and transports energy to foreign countries. 3. By refusing to take a cable, the Icelandic government would be subject to damage on the basis of the four EU freedoms Treated by energy defined as a warning under it, and therefore it would be forbidden to impose an aquaculture violation of the European Economic Freedom of Business. 4. Some suggest that the induction of a three - pack energy package involves the privatization of energy companies. V.E.G. President. On this point, I want to say that it is only natural for people to wonder about such things as the end of great interests. It's good that so many people are interested in the case, for then we will be able to bring in many sides and examine them. That's why. The Foreign Affairs Commission carefully declared these claims, received numerous visitors, and the reviews of experts and others who had something to offer. The review of the committee is carefully documented in the Committee opinion, which, in my opinion, is very good and detailed. It explains the conclusion of the greater part, which is that the above statements fail to be viewed. There is no violation of a constitution, and there is no legal dispute. The energy package is not making a decision whether to submit cables or otherwise to the national competent authority warrants for such decision. It is not a matter of making a decision about authority to ACER. It is not a decision to make that energy resources are used by governments other than the Icelandic government. It is not a decision that the Icelandic government will have to sell its resources or lose custody of its assets. It is not to decide that the Icelandic government needs to sell or privatize a power company. The State is not subject to harm on the basis of the four freedoms if it refuses to place a cable. Mr. President. A second point that has been discussed with the subject is why we are accepting the energy package, since we are not linked to a European energy market, which is of no concern to us. Of course, we should reject him on that basis and send the case back to the joint EEA committee, that's the right way, as some would like to call it. Then ask: Would rejection of the package serve the interests of the Icelanders better than accepting it with advance notice? Is rejection really an option in the light of our cooperation in EFTA and the EEA Convention? Iceland went to EFTA in 1970, and Iceland became a member of the European Economic Area in 1994 25 years ago. In most estimates, these decisions were progressive. When we agreed to the EEA contract, we were carefully examined for the violation of the contract against our constitution. It wasn't. The progress of 102 proved to be clear. a ga, which requires that the State be able to refuse a decree, is primarily a security valve. This is reviewed very carefully by the Committee's list of parts. This article is a procedure in the contract process of the Committee for State to form a fixed contract position within the Committee. There is a reason why there are no precedents in the 25 - year - old history of the Convention to reject a decree after the state has completed work on the joint committee and agreed on a decision. Doing such a thing would be a misuse of our rights in EFTA. Mr. President. The majority of them are down. These factors are carefully reviewed by the foreign committee, as stated earlier. They even gave it to the committee. to his new committee Carl Baudenbacher, former president of the EFTA Court. He even explained. that, within the joint EEA committee, representatives are responsible for their efforts to maintain the successful implementation of the agreement. This rule, known as favor constratus, is in Latin and is of great importance. Mr. Baudenbacher spoke of rejection as having no doubt seriously damaged the interests of the Icelandic state, and he reasoned in detail. The EFTA kingdom must speak with one voice to the EEA. Iceland is under obligation to cooperate with its countries. Our cooperation is based on mutual trust and the close cooperation of nations, and therefore both Liechtenstein and Norway assume that we are intact in our cooperation and that we eliminate the administrative notice in a energy pack of three that they have already done. So the answer is, Mr. President: The reason we choose to implement the rules of environmental energy markets is that we are members of the Europe's inner market and have been involved for 25 years. The Joint EEA Committee is the site where countries can adapt to the normality of their country, receive annuity, and so on. As in our case, regional conventions have repeatedly made their approach to the process and are attributed to the Commission's opinion when the work was carried out by a three - pack supply of energy. The work of the joint committee is not a matter of rejecting rules when adaptation has taken place. When and why did this journey of Iceland begin with the implementation of European energy market rules? It began in 2003 when we introduced a energy package alone. This introduction actually opened the market for the electrical power system. The results of this road included: increased market competition, increased consumer protection, and lower domestic energy prices, to name something. A few years later, in 2009, a two - pack of energy was introduced, and it is now in effect. In answer to the highest. Secretary of State asking from what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason to the threshing floor. 1315 at the current legislation board published by Jehovah's Witnesses. The answer identifies 2 mg. 194. gr. The European Union's work programme, which we are not directly involved in, is the basis for the EEA contract, in which it states that measures in the paragraph are in advance of the rightness of Member States to determine the conditions of its energy sources, which energy source it selects, and the general form of energy supply. Stefán Stefánsson, who happened to you. The Foreign Affairs Committee and gave a vote, repeated values of 194.g. The Treaty showed that since Iceland was not in the European Union, it might be expected that the European Union's rules did not go further with us, which are not members of the European Union. Mr. President. It should be emphasized that, through the induction of a pack of three energy pack, energy package will drop out of force two. What, though, is included in the package? It's about natural gas, but Iceland's got an exception from them. It is required for the owner's separation of transport companies. Iceland's got an exception. There are more detailed laws on the independence of electrical watch, newcomers, including the U.S. for independence from stakeholders on markets and governments. The strong consumer rights that mark the entire energy package are on which they include: in the clear right of consumers to choose their preferred energy dealers, change energy dealers rapidly and easily, as well as to get detailed information on energy consumption and prices. For us Icelanders, the main change from energy pack two in three is that Power Institute receives additional sources to monitor the electricity market. It is clear that the Power Institute is an Icelandic government and will continue to exist, not a post office or a branch office of ACER. Over the years, we've been very careful about what we're doing. State Department. It's perfectly clear. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson carefully reviewed this in his speech. In this country, several energy companies operate in a competitive market, and their activities apply competitively, as previously said. Then we do well to stress that in this country we also have electrical laws that are relevant to the context of things. I believe we can agree that the strength of the Power Agency is the best. In this context, it is appropriate to mention the concerns that many have had regarding the priors set by Iceland to the Directive 713/2009 that turns to the ACER. First, the defender was struck to put in a bill that states that the cable will not be placed without the approval of the Council and reviewed on the legal grounds of the Regulation. Second, to sharpen Iceland's special status as an island with an unplugged electropower system on the European continent, Miguel Arias Canete, European Energy Minister, and Gudler Þór Þórðarson, Iceland's foreign minister, released a joint declaration, March 20, this year's Day. The declaration states that the current provision of the EU's third energy package has no effect on Iceland's Member States over Iceland's energy resources, and that the European Union's electronic cables and internal energy markets are left entirely by the Icelandic government. If the cables were to be passed in the future, the ESA, the EFTA monitoring centre, would have made a decision to cover cross-border issues rather than to ACER as agreed in the lead-in text of the common EEA Committee, reflecting the independence of the isolates EFTA under the two supporting systems of the EEA Convention. Third, the EFTA countries involved in the EEA agreements, the three states, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, made a joint declaration by the European Commission on May 8, s., with Iceland's uniqueness in the EU internal energy market. The declaration states that the requirement of the third energy package has no effect on the full control of the Member States over their energy resources, their provision and application. Decisions on the integration of their electronic energy systems and the energy systems of the EU's internal market would always be their custody. In the event of future sea cable reforms, the ESA's decision is to deal with the problem of Iceland, not with the ACER. This is in full agreement with the two supporting systems of the EEA Convention. These are key documents in this case, Mr. President. With these statements and the bill on a cable from the highest level. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is assured that the High Priests of the Generals will proceed in the future. They have an indistinguishable legal value, a national value, and so it is very important to take the case into account that they are essential to the process. It has been noted that despite everything, warnings do not hold back, and some people base their view on the so - called raw meat. These two cases are different. In the meat matter, courts concluded that Iceland did not properly introduce its contract commitment to the European Commission. Investigation in Iceland was made so that due to induction a bill was submitted several times at the General Assembly. When it was finally approved after several attempts, it was somewhat different from what was originally suggested in order to introduce the ensuing types. There was a mistake on the part of the Generals. That wasn't the right thing to do. Now we're talking about a lot of other things. My conclusion is that we've arranged the steps in this case so that the warnings will definitely hold. In fact, we've not only got belts and shoulder ties like us in the forward party have put a lot of emphasis on from the beginning, but we've come along, well, what to say, putting on a hairpiece, a pair of taste, and a new pair of shoes. Mr. President. It's not getting more power over Iceland's energy to Europe. There's nothing in the third energy package, so that's not what it's all about. Iceland's specialisation with an isolated electrical system is being legalized in the Congress itself and in the joint announcement of Iceland's Secretary of State and the European Commission's Council of Energy, as well as a letter, day. May 8th, from the EFTA countries I've been discussing before. We've been listening to critical voices. These comments have helped to improve the situation. Energy pack four and five work ahead. We need to be alert to that work and be fully alert to care for our interests. It is also important to ensure that the possession of energy companies will remain in public, public companies. We need to complete a energy policy that's on the drawing board and create a policy for Landing and Landsnet as well as uplifting our constitution, and then I mean the resource directive and the authority sources. As far as I'm concerned, if there were to be a bill on the national bill, it would make a significant contribution. I would like to thank the head of the Committee for a very good outsidement of the Committee's work, a good planning, a good information present to members of the Committee on State Affairs for cooperation. I believe, regarding the doubts that some of us may have had at the beginning of the process, that we have got a good space to go over and get answers to the questions we had, so I can't help but commend the chairman of the Committee and members of the Committee for a very good cooperation and a thorough review. Finally, I'd like to make the words of the future chairman, the Sigurding Sigurður of Jóhannsson, who writes in an article in the reactor today to mine, where he says, by permission of a president: It is important for Iceland's resources to secure its full control over them. It is important that we take care of the entire organization's interests - soon and long. It is also important that we make decisions about the interests of the people on the right grounds. That we do not enter the politics of anger, the politics of fear, and make them our legal home, our defense council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u114	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for her passage. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator said that there was no provision for authority. I'd like to ask you what. The senator how she interprets the opinion of a group written by the Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, and I quote: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. The 713/2009 recording of the EEA Convention and implementing Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. [...] There is no precedent for such power to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. Now I'm not a lawyer, but I take their word for this, and I can't help but stop. It seems odd to me that a large number of scholars and readers of the law make such warnings that they believe are being handed over feel that there are substantial doubts as to whether the constitution is being violated and why we are taking it that way. Why do we choose this route? I would love to know how to do so. A senator will consider this and see if there is another way that might be better off. I think it's a little steep to argue that all those who have a clear view of the energy package followers are simply out in the middle of nowhere and can't read the text. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Thorddsson very much for a very good answer. It's good to have the opportunity to make this even more pronounced, but I may have done in my talk earlier. Here, the senator quoted a phrase from Stefán's opinion of the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Fridek's Friðriksson Hirst, one of the opinions as a subject. The State Department discussed their meetings on the subject. I respect it for what. A senator who sits here as an assistant may not have had the opportunity to keep a close eye on the discussion during the first round of the situation. But that is exactly where these doubts were raised, so the committee specifically discussed these matters. Is there anything there that gives us reason to believe that we are betraying authority? This concluded by the Committee after meeting the men who wrote the opinion of the organization and after meeting more people who had expertise in this field, that there was no room for authority. Here I quote a letter sent to the highest court by Stefánsson Monorsson and Friðrik Áfjörn Friðriksson Hirst. Secretary of State, dated April 10th, where the message was somewhat misleading about what it was all about. But there they say in their letter, by permission of the president: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamentally in the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. [[The president calls.]] I'll go over this other way in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This quoted letter was written after they wrote this opinion, and it was a document that made available to the synopsis proposal. As I read it, there may be evidence that this route is actually delaying a government - directed problem. For the time being, forgive the Icelandic language, or wear it on the constitution, but it's time for us to take a stand. Now we have contracts, so we should have them, and we don't want to be ignorant of anything else, Icelanders. We're part of the European Economic Area Convention. To make one-sided a warning against such a deal when there is another way and is simply built into the contract when there is an opinion like what we're facing here, which is to settle these facts within the joint EEA committee, I have to admit that I don't understand why that route is not gone. I would like to get the senator's position on why she believes that this is a less effective way, since it is built into the European Economic Area Convention. In this context, I'd like to mention that when you talk about wearing belts and bracelets in these warnings, number one: Why are the warnings given? It must be because there is something we're not quite ready to take in or something that we don't really want. That's what the models are for. And why is that so? What is it there, especially in Regulations 713 and 714 that scare? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u117	A respectable president. I thank the senator again for his good questions. I think that this so - called other way of speaking was correct, and it is also covered in the leading list of members of the section what such a way would mean and include. As I was saying, this is something the lawyers Stefán Stefánsson and Friðri Friðriksson Hirst left for the committee to investigate. They mention that there is a different way, but it certainly is not flawless, so the committee, conscientiously, got to the party, Carl Baudenbacher, the Committee for News, as well as specialists from the University of Reykjavík to inform us about this very point, whether this was a good way, and what the consequences might be. However, I would like to reiterate that most of the people who came along with their opinion on the Constitution question felt that we would need no warning at all to keep our safety and to be absolutely safe. However, it was decided to put the one mentioned, i.e. a special channel line bill. The letter I read from earlier is not additional to Stefán Már and Friðrik's opinion; rather, it is a paradox of the opinion of the group where people reached, some of whom, mismatch, tear it out of context, and stone it all together and connect their names to it. Hence, they felt that it was important to make a point, so they understood what they meant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u118	Mr. President. I read at Twitter earlier that there was something poetic about the Allied talking of the EU's third energy package at the same time that the nation was glued in front of TV to watch the musical competition of European television stations. Our people were doing great. Besides, it's just waiting and see what the finals are gonna be later tonight. But continue Iceland. First, I want to thank the Foreign Affairs Committee and the good people there for our cooperation, no matter what our views on the matter. It was fun working on this case. Certain questions had to be considered, no doubt about it. We are to take seriously the concerns involved. Anxiety based on reason and objective approach. However, there may have been other matters that may not have been so complex. I'd especially like to thank the head of the Committee for a very good job, and I've told it somewhere in the community centres that in the years I've been at the council, apparently a few decades, this is with the very best at the Commission's work. Both the chairman and the members of the committee deserve credit for having worked very hard and sincerely on this matter. It was all open and varied with regard to visitors and opinions. Eventually, the committee had to stop and review existing databases. In my opinion, all the matters of opinion, all the comments received by the committee, and they have since been torn in many parts of the community. This gives us more security, more certainty, more firm that we should be determined in the important step we take by introducing the third energy package and highlighting the importance of our major international contract, which has been incredibly successful for the Icelandic nation. The tremendous impact the contract would have had on our professional lives, also on the opportunity of young people to educate themselves, to study, to know that it could go to many colleges. It is important for small companies, medium-sized companies to know that the world is not only here at home but larger and that it is quite practical. So it is not possible to exaggerate the impact of the EEA on Icelandic employment, since the environment is becoming international, we have to remember, no matter what anyone says. It is becoming more international every year, and then we must be in a position to have a full share. This is part of it, and it is important, though I want to say it immediately regarding doubts about the constitution, that it has been refuted in one speech after another, and has been driven by visitors, that this way does not go against the Constitution. But it's also not a deal we should use only because it's suitable for politics, and use as a tool to undermine our important EEA contract, because it's no joke to do so. That's the real deal. Of course, we want to protect our interests when we really need them. It's dangerous then to call it a wolf, a wolf, ever and ever. All worry that we're going to some power room, that we're going against the Constitution, has been deteriorating. I think it's important that we are talking about bringing in this third energy package that has many effects, positive effects and has also had a positive effect on our society, our corporate culture, on obtaining a better price for consumers and households in the country and more targeted energy resources and sharing. This is important, too. I think it's a joy to know that there are sorties, politicians who dare to step forward and not simply pass over a bit of false information, even the rear end of facts, do not allow suitableness to dominate their language. I'm not saying everybody's like that. I'm not saying that at all, but it's been said, while others have made specific comments worth stopping and going over. That's what happened. State Department. I'm so glad to see that we're not going to allow it to happen here in Britain, where everyone, or the majority of those who came to those elections admitted that they were not completely facts. It took just a little bit more to get that conclusion. There are both documentarys and other sources. There is a rearpacation of democracy, a threat to democracy, when a interests organization, even political parties, has begun to work on these grounds. So I'm glad that, at least, we're asking a certain Bannon industry in Iceland. We are not going to let her walk over us without question. It is, in part, glad that we can use ourselves through the third energy package and get people to see us at meetings and review those comments. What's the third energy pack going on? A few have gone over it today. I would also like to stress that the meetings of the Committee showed that the critical voices heard in late stages are new. The government staff who have been working in the third energy package from the very beginning said at a meeting of the Committee that these voices had not appeared in early stages and that they had not been put in court or made comments. However, we did not do so in earlier stages, no matter what government was in power. They've been both left and right, all classes. There is no one to blame, much more, it is said that the Icelandic Foreign Service has been on the watch along with a business group that was consulted, whether it was ASI or the European Union. They do not make the notes that are being made today. Me and the Icelanders, we've been through the process, including... Regarding the fact that the owners of distribution companies were not relevant for Iceland. It's a huge deal for us. It's also a huge issue for us that we can pass through the third energy package more effective in caring for our interests than in previous induction, e.g. on the personal protection directive or in the SEC, because we get representatives at the table when it comes to the International Institute for ACER, although we do not have the right to vote. But we have a proposal and freedom of speech. It's more than we've achieved with the induction of the actions we've already agreed to. That's an enormous point. I find it boring to hear people talk down, even though the results that the Icelandic politicians have achieved are against parties. We've been working pretty hard to fit the yellow line that the EEA deal is. That is why it is a responsibility when men and women come out and drag something out and then do not listen to the answers. But it is kept up repeatedly in the hope and from the experience beyond the gradual recovery of the false information. That is why I would like to stress that I am glad to see groups in government and government opposition meet together to stop the bullshit. I heard it coming from a talk. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon said that we at the front of the government were members of the government. I'm trying to get close to the political bitch a little different than I used to. There has been a little bit of an Icelandic politicalist that some people have the definition that if you're in a position of government, you're against, no matter what happens. In fact, the government could only take the government into account and respond to it. Today, I criticize the government that it has not done anything to meet us in the opposition to government, it has rather withheld our decision to agree with various issues that we have presented. But okay. I hope it will change. That's enough of our election season, and we can slowly work against these devices. It doesn't matter to me where good things come from. We are trying to work on things in an effort to deal objectively with them. Just last night, we were accepting a huge case for freedom of women, for a national rights struggle, regardless of government issue. The same with the energy package. It's a huge interest matter. Why do I say huge interests? Since we talk about Baltrexit - because our responsibility is not to play for young people's interests and futures. Young people call for opening - not closing, but opening. That we share in the worldwide work of pride, with dignity over ourselves because we can impart so many things. Our knowledge in certain areas is immense. I watch our scholars through the years, for example. Geology scientists. We can communicate so much, from geology, energy, culture, so I don't talk about the water. So we are not to be ashamed of our worldwide work but, rather, come with all dignity into it because we are able to impart so much. We feel that we have been, whether it's the EFTA or the EES committee, or NATO, are ministers, sense that it is listened to us in the areas in which we apply ourselves. It matters. I can criticize the government for not putting in the third energy package before because it was a little running around, perhaps least due to the fact that certain classes were involved. I'd rather criticize the government for not showing up before with the energy package, giving the voices of a room that has held up false records. And they have been feeding at a time when the government groups had to resolve matters within their ranks. But all right, this case has come to pass. After a very detailed work of every sort, it has been brought up to a controversial discussion, which is important. That's why I say we don't play with young people's future. I'm also here to say, "What's going on with the third energy package?" He does not go out to lay upon us the obligation to lay a cable. It's all in our hands. And it is shocking because it is retraced by the committee to suggest that it is still out of our hands. The responsibility of politicians, political leaders, is great, to come up here in this chair and say that things are different from what they really are. We Icelanders have no obligation to lay a sea cable. That power is in our hands. We can take the discussion later. It is right what the government does, to bring back our rights here at the council, that it would require the presence of the council by prime, innovation and employment minister, in case of any change. That's the right step, wise step. It's all in our hands. The third energy package has no meaning on the privateisation of property, market development. We are now feeding on the fear that we will be selling Landing, a business owned by the nation. There's no record of my class, and I doubt that there's more to it here at the council, just not at all. Rather, it was difficult to listen to members of the committee, both the Foreign Affairs Committee and this morning on a professional committee. I'm lucky to sit on both committees and receive the power package a lot. I hate to hear visitors come and say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We don't need these competitive rules. We don't need to improve our monitoring of the energy market government institutions, that we demand transparency. We demand that the country of Iceland, the owner of the country's operations, be given the right price for energy. There was a meeting on the committee that said we shouldn't be having it all too well. I point out: Nationalization should be owned by the nation and the nation on demand and demand that we get the best possible price for energy. When we look back in history to form as we set out in 1968 to build up the studio in Straumsvík, we see that it has had a tremendous influence, a positive influence in Icelandic society. We built up knowledge, we built wood, and we drew a company to strengthen the energy supply and the electrical security of all the people of the country. That was then. Then we've evolved. We have created stronger infrastructures under Icelandic society, through fishing roads, by tourism, and by various means. Today's crisis, especially from young people, is that we do not subsidize anything through a bug, that we don't memorize transparency and just put matters in the hands of politicians, depending on how the winds blow, what the district says, etc. It's not being asked for any more. I'm not talking down that decision-making thing over the years, I see how it was then. But today, it's not welcome. We want the right price and a good price for our energy. That is why it was important to feel that during the first and second energy package, civilisation is given much support, in order to have a stronger standing for large companies. Therefore, I felt sad that both the labor movement and our Orcs do not agree with the view to sharpening the surveillance of big companies. This is exactly the same view, because it was mentioned from a smaller part of the decision that the EU was to increase power - the EU is to sharpen rules. The EU's main market is that the stakeholders, the market's stakeholders, return to consumer pocket. It's a key factor, and there's something very distorted and conflicting with that view, the suspicion that maintenance of large companies is dangerous to the community. These are exactly the same views as when large companies, big telephone companies, protested at their time that the EU set out clear rules, especially in the interests of consumers, that telephone companies could not come here waltzing and let consumers stand up with huge phone bills if they allowed themselves to cross the border. We know that, remember to turn everything off, make sure that we are not caught in the sack of foreign telephone companies. This was an EU attempt to make a mistake. It's the exact same thing with the electricity. We, the Icelandic people want the right price for that resource, the energy. I'm sorry that men today, in the 21st century, 2019, promote such views. Now, I'd like to say, "The energy package doesn't mean that our responsibilities are laid on the sea cable. " It has no relevance to the development and privateisation or ownership of Icelandic companies. It has no effect on the custody of us Icelanders over our energy resources. The third energy pack has nothing to do with that. Let's just get it straight. Those who suggest this should be more aware of their case. The energy package is, as mentioned in the Land-induction case, in the case of sectoral organisations, the Contestance Commission, in effect, a further step towards the first and second energy package: the competitiveness of consumer protection, the presence of the owners of transport companies, where Iceland was granted its release, and the independence of electrical energy control. We should not forget, too, that there is a strong link between the third energy package and the EU environmental policies. EU environmental policies place great emphasis on renewable energy. We need to unite with Europe and fight for the right steps when it comes to climate and environment. Part of it is being included in the third energy package. There are so many things to go over in this. The important thing is that the Foreign Affairs Committee has carefully reviewed all factors, all the comments made. I respect them, I underscore them. There is no danger in bringing in the third energy package for Icelandic society. Rather, there is a danger of rocking the boat, as humans have been trying to do in the past few weeks. We're here to introduce the third energy package for consumer protection, in the interest of transparency and the full participation of the important contract the EEA is having.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u119	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for a very powerful speech and extensive speech. I agree with the senator that there are so many things in this matter that we could talk about it forever. First, I'd like to agree with the senator, because there's a big part of this coverage all together, about the state of the Conspiracy and its future. I was glad to hear that the senator wants to remain a member of the nation, and I agree that there are few, if any, in this hall, that I believe. Of course, it's all our best interests that Landing will get as much energy as possible. The Senator did well to review what was in the package and what was not, and the package had no intention at all of the personalisation of energy companies, and there is no doubt about the constitution in a pack of three. Then I'd like to ask the senator about the price of electricity. Some would like to argue that by induction of a pack of three energy, there will be a significant increase in electricity prices, Brussels being powered over the electricity population in Iceland. Is there anything in a pack of three energy, according to the senator's opinion? I also agree with the senator on false information. They're dangerous, and they're a threat to democracy. Therefore, it is up to us senators, all of us, whatever our course of action, to provide the right information, to examine matters fully, and to make a decision on the right grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u120	Mr. President. Thanks for the inquiry. We went over this on the committee. There was nothing that appeared except for the reduction of electricity prices, especially where competition was introduced through the first and second packages. It even came. This morning at a meeting of the employment committee where the Power Institute was and put it in particular. That's why this Power Institute and us consumers are important and the companies that are gradually beginning to realize that better prices can be obtained through energy distribution and transport. They need to know that Power Institute is given this clear source, including through the energy package, which is being introduced, to provide the mono-causality companies that are owned by us so that they can provide information, so that a stately company cannot provide one company, a public company, this price and another price to the company. That's very important. No one should be afraid of transparency. With regard to the sovereignty, I have repeatedly said that any step we have taken through international contracts and alliances, whether it is NATO, EFTA, or through the EEA Convention, has strengthened our sovereignty. This has been strengthened because we decided to use our sovereignty in the process of expanding the infrastructure, making ourselves stronger out, and inwardly. History has shown that it was the right thing to take part in all the cooperation that I have, in fact, had to do. Please note that. That's why it's so dangerous if we're going to rock it, and we might weaken our position in the EEA. We can't do that, we don't have anything to do with it, that's absolutely unnecessary, especially in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u121	Mr. President. I thank the senator for a good answer. A little more about land activation. Me and what. A senator has been sitting at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and in one of them we have found the exact representatives of the National Reactivation and Landsnets. There, one member of the committee asked him, why. paritaprevir Brutísdótttir Haraldsdóttir, the Nationalization of the Question whether there were any members of the community that would be of interest because a pack of energy would be rejected. It was an open meeting, so it may be appropriate to discuss this further. The director of Landing explained that yes, it would be the interests of certain corporations to turn down a pack of three. He traced it only further during the meeting and told the delegates that the contracting state of the United Kingdom was greatly strengthened in later years by the energy bags, including, as well as the debate on a sea cable that actually began in 1961 or 1962, if I recall correctly. As a result, the company has gained more money from the energy that serves the natural interests of all of us, which is good. I would like to hear a little more from the senator about this man's subject of the subject, the energy that all of us have, and the fact that there is in this discussion that some of the interests have benefited from upholding false information. [[The president calls.]] That's what you're wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u122	Mr. President. Yes, that is the right question. It is also appropriate to state that our business, land induction and other public enterprises will achieve successful contracts with major users. That's extremely important. But it must not be the way it was, and it evidently did not escape land activation, not having the best available tools to achieve good contracts, and that Land activation, our company, is put in worse position. The change from 2003 brought to law with the first energy package and set Land induction under state strength law. In turn, all contracts made by Land induction, especially to major users, will be conducted at ESAs, the observation centre. It is therefore put under pressure from the fact that the European Commission operates on competitive candidates. But in the past, it was the same, that politicians were consulted and tried to put pressure through it as I could before. It may well have been justified then, but we are no longer in politics. There was no compromise when the pressure came through politics and people wanted it to be somewhat secret. That's why I'm completely embarrassed to hear this presentation, that people doubt that there is an ever - increasing demand for the use of transparency in the Icelandic nation. Of course, it helps the Icelandic nation. Part of a pack of energy one, two and three, including. The advance team has a great deal of honor, a great bit of forward on Sverrisdóttir and others, was that they're giving us a better price. We're getting more money in the government box. I would have thought it was a reason to rejoice, not something we should be suspicious of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, for her speech. I've thought that she had a lot of better ones, so I'm completely honest with it, and maybe especially because of the tone that was going through the speech. There was much more to take than I wrote at random; that here hovers over lakes of banonism; the opponents did not listen to answers; stop the nonsense; they should not be playing with young people's interests and futures. I don't know. Isn't this a bit... [[I'm crazy right now.]] It's crazy, look at that. Then it continued to warn us that we could not call wolf, wolf. I guess it's our authority to refer the case to the joint EEA committee, if I understood the reason. A senator is correct. And then there's the question: Let me get that straight. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir thinks it's fair to approach it as if we who have doubts about the matter and its induction are shouting wolf, wolf by wanting to refer it to the joint EEC, something that has never been done? It's not like it's a misuse of authority. Of course it's never been done to me. Of course, they want to use it as an independent reason on the matter, so since it has not been done, they must not do so. But like so many others, we do not agree with that. I just want to make a comment, and I kind of want to start by asking. A senator would know if I understood it correctly. Is she really likening it to a wolf, a wolf we all know, i.e. our perspective on wanting to refer the case to the EEA joint committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u124	Mr. President. Me and the Icelanders, when we make a point, and if we make a point that has never been done, I want it to be done in a matter that really matters to us, there's a threat to something we can talk about; electrical security, the independence of our country, etc. That's not the case. Carl Baudenbacher did well at a meeting in the Foreign Affairs Committee, in fact, not all classes were allowed. He did well there that this is not a matter for us to refer it to the joint EEA committee. I find it rather boring to have listened to it, not in the language of the day. A senator, but I've sensed it in interviews and in committee meetings, it's up to him to downplay what Baudenbacher says, he's just a political expert. This is the man I would have thought that especially the middle-class would respect, who composed the sentence in Icesave. This is a man whose prayers should be respected. I find it shocking that when he comes and points out the obvious that this is not the case to go on that path, although it's a means to handle it, everyone else except Stefán Már and Friðrik is the one who says, "The other way's more reasonable. " The other way is right. But no one goes against the Constitution. It is also shocking, and not just with Baudenbacher, that it was tried to find out how he presented his case. I'm also sorry that I listened to it twice earlier today that Björn Bjarnason was being smashed. Me and him are not necessarily the same political opinions, not about the European Union, but he is one of the finest experts we Icelanders have, and the former statesman who knows the foreign affairs, security and defenses. But because he makes an uncomfortable opinion of this matter, suddenly he is being spoken down to. Show respect for people who have knowledge and experience and valuable views to offer up in this important matter. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. That is no doubt to some extent that we are listening to each other's talks, for that is the case. A senator went through so well described how it comes to my ears how supporters of this matter speak to those who have doubts. I'm not gonna, so president won't embarrass me, to say we're all considered fools, crazy and disorderly, and toying, but it's going very close. We handled a case yesterday that was very tough, with men and women, which the senators seemed to think would be too hard to pass a little line in terms of putting their views and opinions on opposers. The same is true in this case today, anyway, of what I've listened to so far, muffled out in the hall, and the laughter and booming are made of me that I don't particularly like the rest, but there certainly aren't supporters. But what I want to ask you is why. A senator in my second opponent is what effect, in her opinion, most of the approval of the third energy package, from an approved sea cable fixer? Is it just the surveillance and consumers business? Or there's something else that's wrong. A senator imagines changing on the basis of the package induction from that point on, from an approved sea cable to fix it? Of course, most of us have been talking about, in fact, the time since the sea cable was fixed and forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u126	Mr. President. It doesn't change anything, any more than it changed in 1961 when the sea cable was first discussed. We've got it all in our hands. There is nothing in the third energy package that says we need to start acting differently. It's just an independent Icelandic decision. I'm just hoping that when we get there, we'll have the best chance to have a cold taste for what our interests are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u127	A cable. What will follow? Are there any other plans?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u128	No, it's the natural protection of consumers primarily, that's the surveillance, the electrical security, and that's a competitive view. They're getting tight. It's a big deal. But as I mentioned earlier, it was immediately started with a first and second energy package. From experience, we are seeing that the competitive part is returning a lower price, a competition that was introduced at its time through the production, but on the transport and distribution routes, there is not enough competition. It is being tried to push it further because we see this rod formed and we must not place some pot lid on the competition, which is, in turn, beginning to develop on the Icelandic market. But, hey. A senator also introduced the fact that these false records were not really to be contradicted. I point to it, I hope I'm not insulting anyone, but I'm so glad that with this matter, people, politicians, have begun to rise up and say, "No, here, and no, no, no, no. Let's go over it systematically, factually, factually. On this basis they're stopping the bullshit. I also urge all politicians to think of who has the right to back it up. It may well be that people in this room are not involved in advertising in magazines and on what grounds. But what message is being broadcast? What's the tone? There's such a big responsibility for all politicians. [[The president calls.]] That responsibility must be taken seriously. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u129	Mr. President. There's been a lot of discussion about the third energy package in the community, at the council, on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and all over the world. This has been a bit dominant in the discussion, and thankfully, a large number of people have come by the opinions, comments, attitudes, and visitors to us on the committee, all of which have been of great benefit. In fact, I have to commend the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for making the decision to open up meetings in this discussion because that, I think, also helped the discussion in the community. It was an example, and I would suggest that this be a custom, that meetings were usually open.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u130	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u131	But to the point. The third energy package is primarily about improving the problem of competition and monitoring, improving consumer protection and the delivery of electrical energy. That's about it. The reason for this development was that the European Union, following the implementation of legislation, was always developed in a law-enforcement study and the study showed that the effects of first and other energy packages had not been sufficiently protected by consumers. It was still large members of a European electrical market that had little to compete with. They then went to create a third energy package, not to try to possess energy resources from Iceland, but much more to sustain their internal markets and to press on to dictators on the continent of Europe, these major sources. This set the goal of ensuring delivery security, making it easier for consumers to move between sales available today - there are eight companies in production of electricity in Iceland, and we can choose between them - but also reduce prices to consumers and limit horizontal integration. All are very good goals. Whether the objectives are necessarily achieved with a third energy package, they will become more evident than the data we have yet to indicate. Data from continental Europe are promising. Although, of course, you may be allowed to do even more. But I'm not going to spend long time responding to individual missteps that have been shown during the discussion, which have been repeatedly refuted, and they are reassigned again in this discussion, which they have, in fact, done a number of times. Furthermore, I traced the criticism that was presented in my talk in a previous discussion on this subject, and I'm just referring to it. Yet, there is still reason to stress that this case is not going in any way against the Constitution. That is the opinion of all experts who have handled this matter. It may also be that during the treatment of this case, I carefully reviewed the reasons of the opposers in the matter, alone, very carefully, and reasoned with the facts, taking into account both the text and the regulations and the opinions of experts. I did this not only because it was our job to listen to all the evidence but also because even though I was more aware that it was the best issue in the first place, I thought it was normal and good that we let the criticism have the doubt - until we had the doubt. And he's up. Mr. President. All questions have been resolved in this regard by careful preparation. I'm going to use a part of my time to further discuss the EEA partnership and the process, because through a number of conversations I had with people in the community, especially with opposers of the third energy package, part of the opposition has come more and more clearly on suspicion toward the European Union, suspicion towards the EEA Treaty, suspicion toward the Icelandic government, and suspicion towards the General Assembly, which I think the General has won some extent. It is difficult to have an upbuilding political discussion when everything is full of suspicion. But as I say, a part of suspicion is certainly justified. I also noticed that when I explained to people how many people will have much time to set up their own interests and try to meet one another in the conversation, people would relax. Let's start with the basic, how does an EEA thing get started? First of all, the package is nothing but a collection of EEA types, regulations and regulations. There may be one or more of them. What happens is generally taking the European Commission's advice, which is the heads of the European Union, to decide that there should be a matter to win and therefore refer to the European Commission, which is, in fact, a research appointed, develop a proposal for legislation and direct it to the European Parliament, who works the case and makes some changes in the matter, trying to improve it. Throughout this process, there are many interests involved. If the European Parliament rejects the case, it's just over. But if the European Parliament agrees, it will go back to the European Council, i.e. All the heads of the countries, the prime minister, or the president after an incident either rejects the case, and then it's just over, or accepts the case, are referred to by the European Commission. This process is very important, but this is just the beginning because the European Commission has to, in cases where the matter is addressed to the EEA Convention, suggest that the situation be adopted in the EEA Convention. Then it goes to the EEA joint committee that talks about the recording process and that's a lot of a process behind it. Sometimes it produces a variety of adjustments, as Iceland or Norway or Liechtenstein says: We cannot do this by this contrast. We wish for this to be adjusted, to take into account our special circumstances. After some adjustment has been discussed, it will go through the joint EEA committee, it will go to the government, and the government will make a suggestion to come in with a request to lift control orders. True, it is not always necessary to lift governmental warnings, but it is often done - and always if there is any minor doubt, if there is any doubt that the Council could have something to do with the matter; and this is done on the basis of Article 5. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. Then comes a council proposal - a proposal, a probe. This is a suggestion that the council decides to agree or refuse. Congress will win that case, agreeing or rejecting it, as well as some transfers through the bills. They will be rejected or approved. The bottom line is that in the 25 years of the EEA Convention, no Parliamentary decomposition form has been rejected. This is a very important point because it means 5 mg. 102st. The EEA Convention, like I talked to you about it. paritaprevir Inga Sæland of the previous round. The point is, we don't know exactly what it'll be like if we go that way. But all of this, of course, is a simple one, especially as such a summary covers a small number of individuals, experts, stakeholders, elected representatives in all European countries, all EEA countries, and others who come to every step of this sort and how this process takes years. This also includes the extraordinary number of opportunities for Iceland to enter and present its own comments to the process, done through our embassy in Brussels, which is done through the joint EEA Commission and is done here at the General Assembly. Now someone might ask: Why am I tore up this process instead of discussing the third energy package? The answer is, in fact, simple: The third energy package was published on the State Department and the majority of the Committee is in harmony with reality. That's it. Of course, we'll discuss the subject in a second discussion more than I think it's enough, and that's why I supported the majority of it. There, all the objections were unfounded, but they also offered sound reasons for the package on his own terms. Sadly, the third energy package discussed in subsequent discussions has not entirely been based on facts. I'm afraid we've heard a lot of false reports, especially from the middle class. We have heard the chairman of the Central Party contradicting himself and speaking of the fact that the market area should take place, but at the same time, Communism would establish an eco-efficiency issue at a fixed time. Marketingisation and communicative distribution of electricity resources are not possible at the same time. In real life, the Central Party has to decide anyway. You can't choose both. There is reason to note in this context that there is a type of informal reasoning that is often called poisoning the well. It involves providing details on a subject in a particular context, often in a wrong way, in order to prevent informed discussion from taking place. Sadly, the well has been quite toxic in this case, and it is extremely difficult to access the right information. We see arguments from a variety of things that just aren't in harmony with reality and that don't even take much time to roll. But worse, we often see reasoning that is basically correct. I'm going to take one example that's taken from arguments on our energy website. First their reasoning is, by permission of the President: It is therefore essential that all decisions made in Iceland's electronic energy serve the interests of the people of the country and the future generations. There is nothing wrong with this statement. Nothing. But there's also no evidence against the third energy package, no evidence. What we're doing here is suggesting that a third energy package produces prices without any evidence. The discussion is also set up, so it is for those who are provided with the package to reason on why the price will not rise. In fact, therefore, specific points are easily answered. We can look to the neighbourlands. We can look to such countries as Norway, a region that claims to have a great rise in the formation of a cable. But if you look at the average price on markets - and certainly I say markets - in recent years, if you know, it has fallen on average. Electric prices have dropped. Of course, once a discussion has left the mind of the facts, we need to ask ourselves what is behind it. Whether or not. People say things that they know to be false, or that they really believe these falsehoods, despite their repeatedly driving away? And I wonder if it's worse? I'm not gonna try to answer this, it may be a completely philosophical question before Tuesday night. But the only possible way in which I see the purpose, by ignoring evidence, to ignore facts that are true, which are correct, to ignore the correct logic, including by not attending meetings and pretending that it is somehow completely normal not to participate in the discussion - the only purpose that I can see is to raise the suspicion that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. That's why I actually traced the process, i.e. The European Union's work becomes an EU project and will become Icelandic law. I traced it in the hope that a better understanding of how we Icelands protect our interests against the EEA and on the basis of the EEA Convention may lead to an effort to remove suspicion from the European Economic Area, the good deal that has actually multiplied our standard of living here in Iceland, which may not deserve the suspicions - and may bring them over to those who maintain standards, where suspicion should be at home. I'm not going to go deeper into these matters here and now because I expect we'll, at least, tonight and even something tomorrow, talk back and forth the various things. But I'm going to try anyway, in the situations where people have some actual comments to make, listen to them, listen to them, and try to answer them if they're wrong, which they've been in all cases up to this point. If I heard one argument against the third energy package that kept water, it would be truly interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for a good speech. Clearly, we agree on how harmful misinformation can be, not just for trust in the General but for the nation's interests as well as for which we go for an extended period of time. In this context, I was just finishing reading the minority views of the State Department as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson spoke earlier today. I don't think I've ever read an opinion that contains as many or as serious false records. I don't like this, and it's not good that the head of the Middle Party, huh? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who is not here to observe the discussion, may well be. To do it somewhere else, to answer further for this. This isn't a good idea, is it? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. I'd like to ask the senator if he read that minor opinion. Let us discuss this. The EEA deal? I agree with the senator, it's important. I'd like to ask the senator if he would agree with me about the information that we were getting at. The Foreign Affairs Committee for rejection of this stage was not consistent with the work practices and the agreements for activities and cooperation, both the EFTA countries and countries involved in the EEA Convention. Then I'd rather talk to the senator about the process and the follow-up papers we've received in connection with the third energy package on the history of the case and the introduction of the Council in the nine years that it has been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u133	Mr. President. I've read the minority opinion of the State Department, i.e. ... fromwhat. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I can say that I didn't find any facts in it. In fact, I'm well along on my way to reading it the second time and to try to mark off direct misinformation. But the problem with the expression in the committee opinion is that there is so much to give in a way that you do not tell them. This is totally in harmony with the language that has, unfortunately, been used extensively in this case, that somehow, there is an image that something is wrong without actually telling exactly what it is, which gives people the opportunity to move the goalposts whenever there are any objections. And there's been a lot of objections. Whatever it is. A senator said about the EEA deal is correct. We're in a bit of a bad time. We see the world's growing opposition in international cooperation. When such opposition has developed, it has usually appeared in all shapes other than direct opposition first. Whether it's the middle party's objective or not, I don't know. I just haven't got enough clear information about it, and hopefully I can get that message here tonight. But I'd love it if it wasn't. But if that's the case, we need to get away from some phone talk about issues that are basically good and then go over the real thing about the EEA deal and its many advantages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u134	President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the answers. It is simply this: In the opinion of so many people, something is implied. I quote page two in the opinion of the section that says, by permission of the president: ...exploitation of energy that the relationship defines like any other product. And so I keep going: ... and thus share in making energy each other's commodities. This is amazing, especially since the EEA deal is based on the four freedoms and energy, according to the information I've seen, has been defined as a last resort for all time in that contract. To speak of energy as each other's product and to speak in a specific section of the markets of energy? It has been discussed repeatedly in the Assembly Hall that this trend took place many years ago. It is repeated, many, many times claimed that the induction of a pack of three is a violation of a constitution. [[The president calls.]] We're gonna do what we're gonna do. This has been investigated by the State Department, and it has not been identified. [[The president calls.]] There's no disagreement there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u135	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. It is remarkable that when it is being said that it is out of harmony with the constitution, it has never been pointed out exactly what the Constitution does not agree with. Is that the 2nd? par.? Is that 21. par.? You can't see. That's exactly what it looks like. That the Council may make such decisions, that we are completely permitted. 2.g. Not even a story. If it is a real administrative question, explain it on a legal basis. That's absolutely basic. And then about the energy question. Is that a product? Well, 24. The EEA Convention says that energy is specifically covered in IV. An appendix. That article has not changed since 1994, even. In addition, we know that people have paid for electricity since electricity was first brought into the house. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's always been a warning since we started using it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for a very extensive talk that covered the stage and entered what you can call a rule and how things work. We're talking about consumer protection and competition and delivery of electrical energy, that doesn't work against the Constitution, that's all safe. The argument there--I prefer to say opinions, I think it's a why. A senator confuses the matter a little: What is reasoning, and what are opinions? If we are arguing, we often agree that there is a scientific basis for evidence. Opinions vary again, and there we disagree, and I felt that he was presenting them in his language. My question is, if the EFTA Court judges that Iceland has not produced all the rule given here - if it hasn't been correctly introduced - what then? Has a what? A senator knew that the court would arrive at a different conclusion? Are we not at this point sure that we should place the matter in the place where we want to make sure that we are doing the right thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u137	Mr. President. I have to admit that I'm not quite sure how to answer this question, because the question itself was most adhered to. Okay. If there's some sort of legal case going to the EFTA Court, the Court will judge the case and we'll find out much, as always when the EFTA Court judges. I can't really say anything more without having some particular example of something that could go wrong, because there are so many wrongs to be implemented, as I'm afraid we've seen many times at the Council. But on the basis of argument: We need to talk about the evidence and the facts. Fact is something that can be found in real life based on other than feelings and attitudes. In the case of a legal discussion, we cannot talk about scientific evidence because there is no science, there is law, there is certain social science, a agreement that people make between them - but the law is written. We have these directives and regulations written on paper. The largest part is written in an understandable language. It is not a question of what we think; it is just what it says. Admittedly, a person often has to read through the paper several times in order to understand the whole context, and there certainly are individuals, so - called lawyers, who have a special education in reading through a text that has the potential to be the thread. But basically, it is not a matter of opinion as to what is stated in this directive. But that is when, despite what is stated in the directive, someone still claims something that is in blundering with what is written. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u138	V.E.G. President. That is exactly the essence, that is the argument, and that is our opinion, e.g. On legal matters, which allow us to have differing views based on evidence. It is so easy to interpret text, and we can choose to take out what is convenient for us at a time. In that way, we would have an opinion on the matter. What I was wondering was, for example, that the French state has become aware of how to negotiate behind the scenes with the EU for the dissociation of hydropower plants. Is that something we could get into? That we just don't have everything on the table? I'm not wondering if we're completely self-concerned with any suspicion. I'm just wondering if everything is the way we want it to be -- right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u139	Now it just so happens. A senator referred to a particular case that arose in France and became a less pronounced member of the congregation. But the few were based on misunderstanding. A very important word, however, is that one sense was omitted because people sometimes choose information to avoid facing facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u140	My point, my point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u141	This particular word had become the president's permission, which is really no more than an option. In fact, in view of laws that had been introduced into France some years earlier, the 120 water - power workers, on average 75 years of age, were required to be issued according to this French law every ten years - the offer should be open. [[The president calls.]] It's not unnatural, considering the law said it should be open. Making this suspicious is - I don't want to call it dishonest - tiny dishonest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for his speech and answers. I like to take the discussion on this philosophical basis. What's being said? What Is Reason? What's the opinion? Is this a good thought? Is fear justified or perhaps not? Hv. A senator has claimed here that there is nothing to fear, that any doubts that have been raised have been answered, and that all the questions associated with fear have really been refuted. But I still want to ask: Why are the officers still inside the majority committee after the committee has brought visitors to their homes where the evidence has been refuted? We're still on alert. One of the ways two of our most respected experts have suggested is to be on notice. The second is going to the EEA joint committee. Now, a majority of the committees have been chosen to put in advance. But why are they put if they are unnecessary and more of the committees is convinced that they are unnecessary? I would like to have a clear view of that. Is it not one of the reasons why people do not trust completely what they are offering? Even the majority of the committee are preconceived about what is static and are constantly told in the pontta that there is no need for warning. The nominee that is read here today is written after visitors complete the committee, and everyone is convinced; all the speakers have become convinced of the matter, according to my understanding. So today, it remains, "Why are the models set?" Why are they still on the committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u143	Mr. President. Now I know what to do. A senator is a pilot, and I know he takes good care of his equipment and goes over everything, despite the fact that aviators have done well for each flight. It's helpful to go through a check list and confirm that everything's under control. You do this, not because you distrust someone, but because sometimes it is good to be much more confident. Some people are afraid of this, it's absolutely true, there's fear in society of this matter. And if, as shown in the management of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it really doesn't cost us anything to have these extra warnings, to be a little more certain, then it's cool that we do it. On the contrary, putting extra warnings on our shoulders is no harm to helping people who are still concerned to get a little closer to not worrying. This particular opinion has been referred to many times. Why, though, is it not the same with all the others who said they didn't need that warning? It's very normal to take a conservative approach when we make these things, that we go through our flight list. But once many experts have already said that it is not necessary, it may be all right to have these extra warnings just to make some people feel at peace, even though we are perfectly safe and content not to have them. Sometimes, and especially in a case like this, feelings have taken over a little, and people are afraid, and we may not want to start on that particular flight without everyone being unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u144	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. So the warnings are inside to calm people, but there is no particular reason for them. Yes, I've been working as pilot and pilot for the 1920s, and we're using a check list because we don't trust things. We go over things because we know that what has never happened before can happen. Murphyr's Law. The Senator's onto the fact that this will not violate the constitution, and it will not be harmed. However, it is specifically stated in the opinion of the current scholarly committee that there is no authority to take into account laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if this is the way it is not to test the perfunctory laws in the face of the law, i.e. Not now, but it must be assumed that they will try harder later. That is why, at any distance, according to the foreign minister, these officers are put in. They're trying to cover the well before the baby falls into it. [[The president calls.]] I must say, I find it strange if, as we have noted many times, there are no tests on this and everyone has been assured in the greater part of the committee that it doesn't need, they're still covered because it's against the European Economic Convention to make one-sided notice of the contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u145	The President's still on trial at what. Councilmen say they have a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u146	Mr. President. I have a lot of things I want to say to you. Maybe the first thing. International negotiations are important, but by the end of the day, what matters is what countries do. There is no way to turn up the hand of a country in real life except to a certain degree. If land is one - sided in advance, it is a one - sided priority that must be handled at a political level. So this can be done. This is perfectly normal. It is also true that here at the General Assembly, we have a bit of a conflict, perhaps in the council, that there may be some categories that could not be satisfied with this other than the setting of conservative warnings. But it doesn't matter. They won't harm us. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, I think they'll guarantee us that if there's a cable, we'll have a controlling defense that's useful. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u147	Mr. President. In this matter, there is a very careful legal opinion, one of the better, I'll tell you. Special significance in this regard has been the opinion of the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Már because, in that sense, there are two ways, at least two ways and the discussion disappears, at least two ways. sometimes, a lot of choice between them. A person who carefully studied this opinion cannot better see than that their main proposal on the matter is to record it at the scene of the European Commission on the basis of the 102th chapter. The EEA Convention, however, arrived at a second stage and this was on top of the minister of state and government. I'm assuming this is the shortest dispute. In their opinion, it may be possible to distinguish, although not always clear, what may be called a administrative factor and what might be called the result of an office of authority. So it is that from the beginning of the EEA contract, 25 years ago or so, you've got a lot of controversies, I'll let you say, at least a lot of discussion, whether or not the contract will run into a constitution. Then there was a legal opinion of four jurists, and on the basis of it it was estimated that the EEA could be approved as a unchanged constitution. On the basis of the opinion presented, there has been some kind of legal theory that seems to have been shaped, especially in the writings of Professors Björg Thorarensen and Davíð Þór son of Björgvinsson. There appears to be some sort of ritualistic rule presented in the book Davíð Þór Björgvinsson son of EES. I specifically refer to the way he compares such standards. It's on page 8. 479 in his book, I think I remember it correctly. This point is covered in detail by most of those who have produced legal opinions here. As sometimes happens in law and other articles, not all agree fully, and for themselves there is nothing to consider, that is normal. But I think that in the place where we are, in the assembly, there must be caution and discretion in coming to the earth. Hence, it is also natural to listen, especially when those who want to be careful and careful to speak. On the basis of the formula I described earlier, the two writers, on page 24. 35 in their opinion, of a great doubt--there is clearly not enough in their mind to say doubt; they say a great doubt. I'm gonna read that sentence. They are first dealing with these standards, the last of which is one measure to determine whether the office of authority is clearly set and defined. They say on page 18. 35, with President's permission: With reference to the frontal transcription it is the conclusion of the author's opinion that there is considerable doubt on whether the decision-making authority to ESA is in place at 8 g. Regulation No. 713/2009, as planned to record it in the EEA Convention under the decision of the joint EEA Commission on May 5, 2017, was included in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/1944.156 This is very simply the situation we face in this matter. These scholars speak of considerable doubt when it comes to the command. I would also like to agree with what I called the consequences of a career in power. With the permission of the President, I would like to quote again this fine statement on ESA decisions, content and the right effects of such decisions: ▪... such ESA decisions can have a significant impact on the important individual interests and the legal rights of this country, including the U.S.A. power companies and individual users of the electrical power system. Also, ESA decisions can affect important social interests, i.e. The use of national energy resources. In other words, the content and right effect of such ESA decisions would actually be directed at the individuals involved. In the same opinion, the author on page 18. 48, with President's permission: Even if ESA decisions were proposed, only national control authorities (e.g. Energy agencies, however, must be kept in mind that the decision - making authority of the foreign organisation is in place. Regulation No. 713/2009 takes at least Implicitly, for an organization and a provision of an important source of energy for the nation, the nation's nation's capital; and for the last three words, the author, the more important energy resource of the nation's population, to be found. Come on, with president's permission: Such a power exchange cannot be considered minor in the understanding of the criteria to be considered in the assessment of a administrative legitimate supply of power to the EEA's international institutions. This, by some simple form, can be compared to the view that ESAs were entrusted with power to determine the maximum power in the seas. Mr. President. Can alarms be called higher than those words when it comes to talking about the Holy Grail of our Icelanders, the seabed? It goes on to say, by permission of the president: For the reasons mentioned above, and where the power capacity to ESA is transposed, these are the words of authors - ▪ and the disposition of energy resources, the power rights of ESAs will be at the appropriate time. Regulation No. 713/2009 did not equal similar authority obtained by ESA after EES contract implementation, such as on the basis of financial markets, flight security, and disposal warrants. It is understandable, Mr. President, that there is a choice to make a distinction, to form if we are dealing with financial markets that make decisions that can support individual financial institutions. The decisions involved, as they themselves say, and a toast, are referred to here as the important energy resource in the nation's history. I point out that these are the words of the authors of Friðrik Árni, Fridrik's Friðriksson, Hirst, and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. For their opinion, see section No. 6.3, which is the head of the legislature of the legislature to interpret the constitution. It says that the lawgiver has a degree of ability to interpret the constitution. By permission of the president, the court says: It is evident that the lawgiver's boundaries on these topics are not limited. On the contrary, the principle is to be, in the opinion of authors, that since the director of the constitution has not given direct authority to the legislature to the international institutions, the scope of the Lawgiver in these substances in general must be narrowly tailored. Thus, the Lawgiver should carefully step to the earth in these materials. So many were words. So it is that the proposal of those whom I allow to conclude that it is their main suggestion - of course, according to the way they read, they can discern. They have sent a letter to the Ministry of State, where they deal on these routes and on the way that took place - the way that is to be marked by legal advance, as it is called. I allow myself to use this opportunity to ask: Has anyone here seen this legal advance or is it to accept this matter without having a legal basis? At that point, they say, by permission of the president: ▪ This is the only way to determine whether the uptake and induction will be considered on the part of the ESA, i.e. Whether the induction of the protocol meets national commitments according to the EEA Convention. Although we feel that this route is not above all legal doubt in this regard, we feel very unlikely that the ESA will make comments on this route. They have a reason, but they have used the opportunity in a letter to the State Department to reiterate what I would like to call the main proposal because it seems to me that it is their main proposal. They say, with President's permission: We also suggested another way, that the Council rejected the introduction and that the case would be restored to the joint EEA committee with the view that Iceland would receive an exception. This means that there is a legal advantage beyond the means set out in which it does not include the legal uncertainties described above. With the permission of a president, I will likewise conduct an interview with one of the writers of the United States, Friðriksson Hirst, which appeared on the morning page, mll.is, April 10th. It quotes the Friðrik of the Árni: It can be reasoned that there is a greater legal uncertainty in the way the government intends to conduct a third EU energy package than if the Council refused to accept the energy package by not subtracting controlled warnings for it. He is quoted in this interview: It would also be possible for individuals or lawyers to have a damage case against the Icelandic government if they felt that national law did not guarantee the right they should enjoy under the EEA Convention. I'm going to quote this interview further, as they deal with the political resolution presented in the case, the joint declaration of a foreign minister, and a high - ranking official in the European Union. As to this, the subject of the president's permission of the president, Friðrik Árni, says: This is at least not equivalent to a decision made by the joint EEA committee. Although the political declaration is not legally binding, it may have some significance, as if it might be viewed in the event of a test. Finally, I'd like to quote this interview, with the permission of the president: ▪ Asked if there are any precedents for taking the way the government intends to go, Friðrik doesn't recognize any examples of this. In view of the greater part of the State Department, the two existing statements are given in the case, the above common statement by the minister of state and the official in the European Union, and then a statement common to the three EFTA countries, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, made on May 8, published by the European Commission. It's the conclusion of what's-her-name. The State Department is right there in the opinion: Since this is documented, the common understanding of all parties is that Iceland still has full control over its energy resources. Then I may ask: Since this mutual understanding is available, what stops them from taking up the case on the joint EEA committee in accordance with the authors' main motion of the Friðrik of the Árni and Stefán Már and seeking reconciliation therapy on the basis of the agreement itself? I must admit that I stopped one word with another in view of a greater part of the State Department, which has become an emergency arrangement. I can't figure out how to call it an emergency setting to apply the regulations contained in the contract itself. I'm gonna let myself draw attention to the explanations in the bill 25 years ago. There are explanations in the report on the European Convention's legalisation bill. It states that the extent of a continuation, following a search for administration by the European Commission, depends on the agreement and stated that it can only reach those types, i.e. Regulations, initiatives, etc., which are being added to the EEA agreement, but not to the general cause and books of the agreement. Mr. President. In this light, it is difficult to understand why people seem to be doing the shoes, some of them at least, that this would have special consequences and would lead to a problem with the European Union if we were to apply regulations in this contract, which is between hostile countries who have decided to have peaceful and good cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u148	A respectable president. There are some theories on how to reason and how to form opinions. One is that you should choose an opinion and follow that view, no matter what it is that you may resort to it, you should just use the evidence and the facts that fit that particular view and never change your mind. Never. Then there's another way I'm personally involved. It is that when you get facts that are contrary to previous knowledge, you change your mind. Right away. A senator spoke of the state of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson about the third energy pack, saying to me: "Well, that's not really a problem. A senator has read the experiences of the same men since April 10th. which follows the presenting case because then he would not say those things. But to my disillusionment. A senator quoting from exactly that document, unless he chose out what was not in complete and direct contrast with what was not. A senator had come to a conclusion before. I'm going to read from the opinion of the committee, the respected president, after repeating that this is the subject of the Second Lady Friðrik son of Hirst and Stefánsson, to the minister of foreign affairs on the matter we are discussing. And I testify directly, by permission of the President: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamental to the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the Constitution. Shall I read it again, Mr. Honorable President? Or over and over: There's no legal question, not small, not and lugbuin. Nothing. Nobody. So that's it? If so, we can continue with the next point, which is also spoken of, but what is the point? A senator didn't say anything about the faults? [[The president calls.]] It also shows that this way, the other way, isn't useless on the aforementioned... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. There was a senator shooting past that. I'm asking why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have a feeling, when this matter is planned, that you have accidentally entered some sort of religious gathering and you are, because you are not quite convinced like the others, doubting people, and in bad company with the like. I'm gonna have to take it and face up to it. A senator would not accept it, and he is not pleased with my statement here. I chose the way of holding myself in my speech as much as I explained by the opinion that I had special significance on the subject and that I actually do more than that, because I read from their letter to the Ministry of State to the State Department of State. I even read that sentence as a boy. A senator seemed to have missed the most. I did, Mr. President. I'm not sure I've had a direct question, but I'm glad I had such a golden opportunity to discuss in which way I approached this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u150	A respectable president. I know why. A senator chose the way he went. I would sit in the hall and listen to a talk. Senator. I was criticizing it because I don't like being a cunt at the moment. Senators on their behavior. I don't think it's a good thing. But I have to say, I think it's dishonest, just very dishonest. I don't think it's a defence attorney. I think with me, what. A senator acts as if Friðrik's views were different from those of Friðrik's Friðriksson and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson. Is that fair to them? I don't think so. I think people should enjoy truth. And I don't think it's demeaning, not honest, and I don't think it's right to present their language here as if they don't feel otherwise, but they have so clearly expressed. I'm going to reiterate, a respectable president, with permission: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamental to the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the Constitution. I'll repeat it as often as you do. A senator needs to know that this matter is not against a constitution. We know that now. That's all I'm saying. [[The president calls.]] But that is not religious conviction. [[The president calls.]] Of course, when you experience this kind of work, your blood, you believe in honesty, warms up. This is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u151	Mr. President. What a joy it is when a person is in a position to speak to the Chief of the truth, and there may be nothing very much to talk about! The fact is, the government did not trust to accept this matter any other than to make it legal. That's what explains, I presume, their excellent authors' comments as they appear in the letter quoted to the Ministry of State. The situation is this: Not everyone sees it the same way. To me, that's no problem. I have no disagreement with people who do not agree fully with me, but when they are so sure of their fault that it seems that they feel that others have other viewpoints, then perhaps there is not much that can be done about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u152	A respectable president. I could go over a lot of things, and maybe I need more opportunities to ask about this committee opinion. A senator supports me from a smaller part of the State Department. First, I would like to ask again the questions I asked why. The head of the Committee's opinion earlier today, where it is in the third EU energy package, as in the opinion, by permission of the President: the lines of energy prices and access to exchange power companies. Where does that say in the third energy package? Then I'd like to go in on a little bit of my way. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Hv. A senator quoted the letter written by Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Áfrik Friðriksson Hirst to revise his opinion where the conclusion is that the way is going is in harmony with the constitution. Still, the entire committee's opinion of the State Department is based on the argument that Stefán Már argument, but it's still different from that of Stefánsson Már and Friðriksson Furksson Hirst. Here Stefán's argument, the Már of Stefánsson, is used to show that he is wrong and leads to a different conclusion. That's a very interesting twist, I must say. I ask two questions: On the one hand, about the conclusion of Stefánsson's Már and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst's conclusion that this is in accordance with a constitution - how do they get a conclusion with their argument but why? People of the Central Party, right? [[The president calls.]] And, on the other hand, where in the third energy package is there a authority to replace power companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u153	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the Parliament and the chairman of the State Department for the counter-sponsore. I have to admit that I might have been expecting that. A senator would agree with what I threw into my speech - first, in view of the statements in the language, i.e. On the one hand, the joint declaration is the highest. Secretary of State, as well as as best seen by a very high-ranking European government official, and a joint statement by the EFTA states, which is given at the scene of the most recent committee. In view of this great solid solidarity and this great and good understanding of Iceland's special status, why is it not chosen to take the way that one seems to recommend, the excellent authors, the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Þorsson? I'd like to reiterate, Mr. President, that no legal analysis has ever asked for the national value of the legal court. There is no legal basis for that. It's not in the way. It doesn't matter if it does. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson registrated and shook his head in a chamber - such a legal opinion is not available. [[...is trying to listen for the answer that...]] It's very simple, it's not in the way. And the way the government decided to go, there are no ordinances in the European Economic Area Convention. This, however, is the principal route to which the Árni Friðrik and Már contributed. In fact, it was at a meeting on the State Department that it would very unlikely that legal action would be proved in the event of a test and used the distinguished visitor then, a highly respected lawyer, the word "stupid again, " the word for" home bridge. " [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u154	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator answers neither of my questions, and it shows that he is running ahead of it. He's pointing a question to me, but I'm actually the one who's in opposition to him. A senator. I answered that question earlier today during the discussion when he faced it in opposition to me. I can repeat that answer completely. But I'd like to say here that it's not like that, and it's wrong, as if so much in the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department, that the energy package carries something about changing power companies. The fact that so many of the facts are conflicting in one minority is interesting. That's why I come to the counter here and I ask you where you find these facts that are completely wrong. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to direct that question back to what? A member of the council where I have already answered the questions he was going to point to me in this answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u155	President wants less of it. Councilmen should address others'motives. Councilmen in accordance with Congress regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u156	A respectable president. In my speech, I insisted very strongly that the principle of the legal opinion in which I believe, and have explained it, to be of particular importance in this matter. I even witnessed. to do so in two places where authors discuss how ESA decisions can affect important social interests, i.e. The use of national energy resources, this is on page 5. Thirty-nine. However, I referred to it, and this is my answer to a question why. A senator and president of what? The foreign - language committee, which says on page 18. 40, where the decision force of the foreign institution takes at least In effect, for an organization and a provision of the nation's important resource - and for the last three words, underlined or mapped. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u157	V.E.G. President. Two factors come to mind when we listen to a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. On the one hand, the point that has actually been brought upon us in the past is that despite the urgency of the situation. To a certain legal point, a senator seems to come to a different conclusion than the author of the case. In fact, it is noted that he does not consider the opinion of other scholars who have discussed this and must also have significant significance in this discussion. Then, in particular, I am thinking of Davíð, Þór Björgvinsson and Skúli Magnússon, who gave them very careful opinions. They must also be considered when we consider the issues of opinion and are well - supported and with clear conclusions, not to mention other and older legal views, which may also be a reason to consider in this discussion more than has been done. But maybe I wanted to ask you one direct question. Senator. It is whether he disagrees with me or with the legal scholars involved in this matter, that the proposed exposition in the third energy package is merely that the EFTA monitoring agency can intervene in case of any decision-making issues in different Member States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the counter-sponsored. In fact, I witnessed, perhaps in an indirect way, to the fine scholars he mentioned, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son and Skúli Magnússon. In fact, I quoted from Davíð, Þór Björgvinsson on European rights and the EEA Convention. Perhaps more is involved in quoting these fine scholars. Some articles may also be quoted from these fine scholars in a remarkable birthday book entitled Sovereignty for 99 years and is an article published to honor Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, on the basis of his 60th birthday or previous meeting. Davíð Þór is interested in this publication. He's talking about these things in the context, so you put down Latin, with President's permission, de joure and de facto. It is to note that the legal findings, especially on Davíð's part and perhaps also on Skúli, are very strong in the kategorian de jure. However, the opinion of the most widely quoted two people goes a little further in the sense that it goes on to a greater analysis of the consequences and effects of these types, and particularly of Regulation 713. [[The president calls.]] There is a difference that may be a reason to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u159	V.E.G. President. I think it's right to give a what? A senator again has the opportunity to answer the question that I mentioned. As you read the reports, you cannot conclude that only the exception of ESAs can be seen in cases where monitoring authorities in different countries, then in Iceland and in any other member of the EU economy, do not agree on the relevant issues of business relating to relationships between different countries. I'm asking this as a given cause. That's it, let's say, like, cot. paritaprevir Brumes the son of Níelsson described the first. of the matter, a procedure that can be balanced in the conflicts between two parties that stand on either end of the cable or the line. But I'm wondering what. A senator disagrees with these legalists that there may be exogenous to ESA, but not elsewhere, not in other areas of energy efficiency or energy policy or energy policy or energy decisions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u160	Mr. President. I won't take any words from you in this relationship. I just want to make it right and deny that the words used by the two people are the following, which I allow to refer here: They talk about how the ESA decisions can affect it - maybe that's what matters. Affected by... Where am I? Yes, it can affect a large society of interests, i.e. The use of energy resources. They also say that decisions in accordance with this Regulation, 713 take at least Alloying to stratosphere and provision of the nation's important energy resource. And then I just want to say that I'm feeling a little uncomfortable how you think this two-founding arrangement is subversive in all of this, in view of that, so you just put it like that, because I've missed the time, that ESA is like any other drawer in the ACER in this painting as it's set up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u161	A respectable president. People can have a advantage in their language when they have a very simple cause, even when the cause is based on facts and controversies. In addition to those who need to adhere to facts and arguments because facts and arguments, especially in the EEA, can be rather boring and not completely dull in the typical human language, which can be easily expressed in the openings and bright lines that are easily understood on the emotional tone of Facebook or in the media. This means that when there's a very large amount of misinformation coming out quickly, in the openings, it may be difficult to correct them, especially by facts, since the sound of the facts is something like: ◯713/2009/EEC3/4 or ◯t-wall support systems, or other such things as, something that a person immediately becomes angry. There's a particular problem with this case, because it's an EEA case and it's on the technical side, which means that a lot of buggy records have been made to be in the discussion too much longer. It's been hard to stop them. But I'd also like to say, "I'm aware of all suspicions against the government in order to handle Iceland's resources. " And I understand them suspicious because I share them. I agree. I don't trust the authorities. I did not trust the General to make wise decisions. I don't trust the authorities to make the right decisions. I don't trust power, I don't trust authority, I don't trust the police, I don't trust the law once, I don't trust people to wield power. People don't get much more suspicious than me. But that does not mean that you can automatically sweep off the entire board there. Still, you need to read the information you need to draw conclusions, yet you need to listen to and think about the evidence. But when things are put forward in the openings, such as that foreigners are going to take our resources, and they say in a variety of ways, a very thorough and neat way not to say it technically but still imply very much, it's easy to understand in the heart, and it doesn't have to be read about and it doesn't have to be read about. Thus, a lot of crazy things continue to exist, which is driven by another logical suspicion. I think it is best when the matter is first handled in a material way by describing how this monitoring facility of the EU is to work, ACER/ESA. But that's what I think it might have been during the discussion right away so people would be aware of what we're talking about. It's been described in so many different ways in the context of resources and the like. In fact, we should have started by explaining how this is presented in the troubled articles, 7,◯9. par. in Regulation 713/2009. And that's what it is: Iceland's Energy Institute, the National Institute of Iceland, the Power Institute of Energy, is to establish national connections rules - if they exist. They do not exist, and obviously they do not have to be made rules. Just as it doesn't have to paint houses that don't exist. It's really that simple. Power agencies are to set rules. So if there is an interface between another state, that energy agency, the National Institute of Energy, Iceland, has to agree on rules with other energy agencies in the other country, say Scotland or Britain. If it's all well and then the rules of the energy institutions against the people and ESAs and the ACER will never have anything to do with it. If there is a difference between them and it lasts for six months, they can first ask for some time, which they get to figure out how they can get together. If it is not achieved, the ACER Institute internalises in the EU and decides something in accordance with Community policy aims, consumer protection and competitive monitoring, which are not secondary inducers. It's not like ACER would decide: Then we'll take all the money. Or, we're gonna take all the resources. It's not like that. ACER performs a certain role, a legal function defined in the Regulation. It's supposed to set rules, and it's supposed to pick people up to follow the rules and maintain competitive surveillance, consumer protection, and transparency. That's the whole point of it all. Of course, that's what the Agency does, but it's not like there's some terrible threat to Iceland. Is that it? Is the requirement for Power Institute to set rules that are somehow contrary to those values? Is it such a terrible loss of independence that a foreign agency says, "No, that's not good, you can't do it when you're messing with other people? Second, is it not normal for an international organization to handle conflict between two nations? That's what we're talking about. It is always part of the discussion, such as the ACER or ESA would be here in the country. What for? Why? This is in no way compatible with the role of the Agency under the Regulation. There's an Energy Institute in Iceland that's taking care of all of this. And it's not just so Power Institute can make the rules, according to 8. See, she's supposed to make the rules. That's exactly what she's supposed to do. It's like the power supply. This is the dreaded office of authority that two respected scholars have come to the conclusion that after examining the matter, I am not clearly defined, clearly defined, or in a limited way. But all right, we're going to try to make this as sure as possible because we don't want to break our constitution that we all love, although some of us really want to change things in it. Other than that, there is a number of charges, and that is much done in the Regulation from the independence of the NTSB. It is considered how such work should be done. But to the constitution. Much has been said about the alleged governmental doubt. A great deal of reference has been made from the Friðrik of the Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Stefánsson. It's believed that it is mostly referred to here. The energy package is considered before this case. This matter of Congress did not exist when they wrote their own opinions. They wrote it first, then came up, and then they gave their opinion on the matter, on the specific pact of Congress that we will discuss today. I'm going to repeat what I went through in reply to. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson earlier. It says in their opinion, by permission, to a respectable president: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamental to the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the Constitution. There is no doubt about it. Yet, men come here and say that there is some terrible doubt made up of and always by quoting out - of - date data that concerns not this matter but the energy package before it came into existence. I don't think it's honest, and I did a little bit over it earlier, and I actually think it's an unpleasant way to work, if that's the case. With regard to the office of authority I described, I can see no better than that it is rather well defined and in a specific area, as measured by 7,559. par. The Regulation. The decisions they make are clearly identified. These are national surveillance decisions, Iceland's Power Institute. In view of the time, I'm kind of going to have to move on to the next thing, which is the question with the cable. I note this in the legacy of a committee's party. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson Gunollson's surmise that the evidence is basically based on approval of the third energy package has arrived as a transponder. A lot of logic is logical, considering that this is a transponder cable. But that's not what we're talking about. This is not a matter of laying a cable. It's a rule of order, which is certainly about energy, but it's only about a cable when it exists. He doesn't exist. As a result, the law does not apply to the cable because it does not exist. That's the front line. It's obvious. I think it's so obvious I don't think it's necessary. But it's fine if the lawyers tell us that there's a simple and freeer way to keep this a little safer - cool, let's do it, but there's nothing more to it. That's good. I think that's why. The members of the Central Party should agree that it is good, hardly want to lose their notice, the second way that is suggested in the wide - talking reputation. But I also plan to make a suggestion or a theory. I don't think this case, if it's approved, will make it more likely that the cable will be laid, but on the contrary. I think that once a third energy package is introduced in Iceland it will make the sea cable difficult. The reason is this: Today you can put a cable, I'm told there's already a rule, you just need someone to want to do it. It turns out that no one has enough will to really go into it and suggest it for some serious reason. There are some ideas upstairs, and someone who wants someone else to do it, that someone else take the risk. Some people talk about what's been going on for a very long time, and that's okay, because it's right here that it's decided whether or not a sea cable will be laid - and by the time I remember it, I'm opposed to laying a sea cable. I don't want to put a cable, I'd vote against it, at this time, at least. Let's see what 20 years of climate change has to say about this. But when the energy package is approved, there will be a few banks. In this matter, there is a priority for the Constitutional surrogacy. All right. It is good for the senators to have the doubt and to place doubt on it with the fine scholars, for it has been pointed out by reputable scholars. The doubt has gone away with this issue because of the warning given. It is undisputed among the scholars themselves, though hard. The members of the Central Party do not seem to be able or willing to face that fact, a credible fact. However, if it is suggested to place a cable, it will be activated by means of a cable. That is the action of a command of 7,◯9. par. Then it'll be a legal question. It's harder, a respectable president, not easier. And not enough. Once this has been introduced, the obligation to the Power Institute is already in line with its rules to the energy institutions of the other country, expected in advance. Who is going to put a sea cable in advance without knowing what the rules are about to be accessed? Nobody. Of course, people want to get this straight in advance. It's part of the process. To have to figure it out first, if someone who has the right to build this alleged sea cable means, first of all, it's more difficult, more dignified. Second, it is when a cable is laid. There will be no division, and it will never go to ESA. I think if we're bringing in the third energy package today, we'll never hear any sounds from the ESA about this case, ever, even though we're laying a sea cable, because I think having it introduced in advance, the rule would always be a part of laying the cable. These negotiations between the Power Agency and the prospective UK energy agency, I presume, must be part of the building of a cable. Why should we go to ESA? Why would we build the largest, most complex, most expensive sea cables in human history and then just forget to look into whether the British agree with us about ◯beisik-aid things like access? To prefer to take it to some court order of international institutions is a negative measure. Who would write a deal and then say, "Hey, let's go straight to the judge, have some doubt in our contract, and then we'll just go to the judge and let them figure it out." That's a ridiculous, respectable president. Nobody would. That's why I think, first of all, this problem with sea cables. If there's a cable laid, I don't think that ESAs and ACER will ever have anything to do with it. Third, I'm going to suggest that if the cable I am opposed to is better off doing this rule than not, because it's more transparent, more competitive, and better consumer protection. In the case of a cable, it is perfectly normal to consider the cost of consumers. I feel as if many others care that electricity is on the cheaper side of Iceland. In fact, it is not the cheapest in Europe, it is cheaper in some European countries, a little more expensive in some areas, only more expensive elsewhere, and much more expensive in even other places. It does not agree very well with the theories that the EU will guide it, as well as the year. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson falsely reported on an interview recently, but this is not how the EU works. That's how Communism works. The EU is not a Communist state, if that is not clear. More about that later. I think the cost of consumers is likely to increase pretty much, at least in some way, by placing sea cables on Europe for the reason that more demand for energy came from there. No problem, more demand goes up prices, not complicated checks in itself. But it's not suggested here to lay a cable, here's a suggestion to accept an energy package. It is known about its costs, and it reads up to 49 million. K. budgets for 2019 and then 47 million in income 2020, are published more or less on a national financial plain. What a tremendous amount of money that is not! We rarely talk about less money than this when talking about budgets, rarely. So the idea that electricity costs will increase something as a result makes me feel very unfaithful. I think it would be just hard to calculate the cost of a family for the simple reason that the cost of each family is so small, just the fluctuations in electricity consumption per household must go far beyond the cost increase, I don't think anyone will feel it. That's not a big amount. But it is also one of the misdemeanors that the EU will simply decide the price. It's out of thin air. It's a little hard to convince people that they're not a ghost in some closet, hard to convince a child that they're not an invisible monster underneath a bed. But then you need to check it, you open the closet or look under the bed, and if you open the safe or look under the bed in this case, you see that there is nothing in this that would indicate in any way that the EU would decide on the whole of Europe, which is, like a boy. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy pointed to earlier, contradicting the market area. This area is either being marketed or filming Communism. You can't do both at the same time. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Gunnlaugsson Gun full of good things - in fact, a very poor member of the committee - has to decide if it is. It can't be both. In it, there is an internal contradiction. It is true that the market and market concept are being developed so that consumers will have greater options for a perfect economy - which does not exist - but according to a clear capitalian theory, if everyone had as much access as the demand was scattered as well as the production - in the end, in a perfect world. But that's not the reality, and that's why there's not the same amount of energy in all EU countries, because energy varies. There are different levels of strength and good lines, many of them; there are different levels of demand in different times. This affects the price, normal. It has also been said of the privatization of government companies and the replacement, which no one knows, and no one can reason short or point out anything that distinguishes a bit of speech on one side of the case. But not enough. It's not just that all the evidence I've heard against the case is overly bad and based entirely on sand, but after considering it, I feel that it is truly good. This is no revolution. They're improving competitive surveillance, improving the independence of Encosystem, which is no revolution and no major issue. But all right, I think it's better than nothing. I think it's a good idea to have an international agency to settle differences between two countries. In the ground, I think it's practical. I don't think it's an expedient, especially when it's well defined and in a specific field, as it is in my opinion. I was going to review the mistransductions in a minority list. paritaprevir The winners of Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, but I don't have time to do that. But when I read it the first time, I thought he was worried about some administrative doubt, which is no one. Let us agree on this now and stop arguing about it. That's a fact. In other words, it is wrong to have authority over the matter, there is no one. Second, ACER has overwhelming authority. I've been over it. It is also wrong, except in a very narrow sense, which measures a constitution completely and let alone in this advance. So critical is he that energy becomes the product of every other store. It's a joke. Why isn't power product? What's wrong with energy being a backup? Food is products, milk and water are products. This does not mean that bad foreigners will take it from someone. We'll have competitive surveillance, transparency, and what it takes to make the market work. That's what this is all about. That's good. That's the way it's supposed to be. It is all right for the government to participate in such activities, especially to make sure that everyone is in a state, as we all would like. It also says that the EU will determine the cost of energy, I have already crossed it, and that there will be a connection to the EU on the terms of the EU. It's been a bit of a puzzle to me ever since. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " What does it mean to go into a business relationship or to connect to a country without doing it on both sides? ' [[The president calls.]] What would it be to connect Europe with a ground string just on Icelandic terms? [[The president calls.]] I don't even know what they mean. Maybe I'm stupid. I'm going to let the opposers know about that after I've come to my senses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before his speech. Now I've listened to Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson on the other hand. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy there goes a few times over the fact that a person just has to decide whether to approach the case, depending on the fact that these are Communists or markets. It's not going together, it's just some exiter that these two are going together. I agree with that, but there is a nation we know well, which has a population of 1.4 billion people, China, which is certainly trying this day out and the day in, so it's not as far away as it is. Just a tip. What I wanted to ask the senator in my previous answer is if he knows any of the examples of the European Union or its institutions trying to break up big companies in energy, whether it is so removed that it is not an example or whether the senator who expresses himself with remarkable faith and certainty, his own convictions, so I say with caution, knows some examples that the European Union or its institutions have tried to break up major energy companies within Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u163	A respectable president. I now understand that was just one of the goals when the first energy package was applied. There were large people in the market that the European Union wanted to break up in order to increase competition. I don't know who these people were. I didn't have to look at this much more closely because there's nothing in this third energy package. It has nothing to do with it. This is part of the history of breaking up monotonies, as it is good to do. Isn't it? I'm asking why. Senator: Isn't that right? If we have a giant power company in Europe and a few races and we want a competition, don't you think it's good to break it up? I'll leave that question for a reason. Senator. At least there is nothing in this energy package that affects us in Iceland. I understand from the discussion of the second energy package that they're more involved in an energy package than we've received an exception. Likewise, the energy package has already been implemented. The third pack of energy is not the second energy package, and the second energy package will not go anywhere if we reject the third. That's the best answers I can give each one. A senator on this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u164	Mr. President. Just so they're being fed up, and maybe the most for myself, I need to look at those words now. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns Gunnarsson of a two-pack of energy won't go anywhere, although three energy packs will not be accepted in conjunction with words. The head of the State Department, which he dropped in an interview for the weekend. But it's probably true that I don't try to put it in context here. I might do it better in a talk tomorrow. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has come up here all over the world, I'll tell you. He read from the letter written by attorneys Stefánsson Már and Friðrik's Friðriksson Árni Hirst that there was no legal doubt that the approach would last for a constitution. I don't have that opinion in my head. I could clean it up without a lot of trouble. But isn't it true to me that there the lawyers were looking to the release they had, with their own expression, said that it was part of postponing the subject of opinion? Then, of course, there is a perfect twist. A senator will be talking about work and honesty, wearing it here on a table from this pit that there's a special hold in it when the lawyers are actually saying, "This means that the General Assembly is delaying the problem. " I suppose it would be best to put the question into words to the approach that this is a postponement of the problem, which I think is actually what the attorneys say there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u165	A respectable president. I'm considered to be the letter in front of me, and I'll read the next number to the point. A senator was asking about it. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ This is the only way to determine whether the uptake and induction will be considered on the part of the ESA, i.e. Whether the implementation of the protocol meets national commitments according to the EEA Convention. The third will consider why they consider it very unlikely, very convincing. This is what they say, so the answer is no from this particular opinion. They don't mention it in this opinion, at least not so I noticed. However, my understanding is that the question is certainly being postponed until it is decided to place a nonexistent cable. There's no suggestion to lay a cable. Are we putting it off? Yeah, sure, until it's done. Then these provisions need to be taken up. So I understood their first review, and so I myself understand the nature of these warnings, that these regulations will go into effect if we ever choose to lay down a cable. I made a rather long talk about it in my speech. It's not like I missed it. That's my criticism of what's wrong. paritaprevir Ólafur missus Ísleifsson of Ishun earlier chose to let go of what was in direct contrast with what he himself said these men were saying. That's what I think is unnatural. I discussed that because this is being delayed until the decision had to be made to lay a cable, I think the problem is difficult to fix. It's the opposite of not saying it. I said that in a very long way. But the answer is, technically, in the opinion of the two good lawyers that we have discussed so much. I wish that at this assembly, a respectable president, they could only express themselves on how they feel they were being spoken. I think it would be informative, but I don't think it would be proper for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u166	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a short story. I'd like to come into what he was discussing here, that there's no doubt that this induction, i.e. The synoptic proposal as written is passed on to the constitution. He points there to the popular opinion of Friðrik and Stefán. I wanted to make an issue that there is no doubt - provided that this recent Regulation, 713/2009, especially the three articles that we have long been chewing on here, will not be introduced into Icelandic rights. On the other hand, if the energy package was introduced as it is, it would be contrary to the constitution, or it would at least be in great doubt. But I would like to ask. The senator for this warning whether he knows any precedents for which the EEA has made a warning of its induction in this way and since the defence has been held. I think it's important that this procedure, i.e. bringing in the package but setting up legal warnings, is a known arrangement, and is legally maintaining when under pressure. I think it's very important, especially in the light of the discussion and to make people feel confident that this is not going against what has been preached.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u167	A respectable president. I don't entirely trust myself to answer accurate historical questions about advance in the EEA past. I just don't know enough of the law behind some older thing. I considered only the so - called raw meat, which was either wrong or irrelevant, but that has sometimes been mentioned in this discussion. But that's all I've looked at. It was just too different so I could learn some lesson from what was right here. So the answer in itself is no, I just don't know it well enough. But I do know what these warnings are for. They are to Icelandic rights. These articles, 7,◯9. In Regulation 713/2009, in nature, there is no value without a cable, because it only has to do with sea cables, and it only has to deal with transposphere rules. As I've said before in other talks, it's a little bit like paddling about whether a house is to be painted blue or pink that doesn't exist. There is no sea cable, and no one is suggesting that a cable be laid. Then these laws cannot be considered, as is true of those same lawyers, in d-compell 3, by permission of presidents: The ACER (ESA) authority does not reach the decision whether a cable will be laid. These permissions apply only in the presence of such a connection. Therefore, these measures will not be tested unless the Allied Council decides to link Iceland to the EU electronic energy market by means of a cable, and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. So the law simply has nothing to do with praxize until it has a sea cable that these laws can discuss. Then the other is a theoretical and legal question: Is it not relevant for Icelandic, just for us, that this case fulfills the regulations of the Constitution, and for this it is protected? Really, we need only exercise faith in this warning. It is really for us because the regulations do not matter until we reach a sea cable. If he'll never be, they won't be of any value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u168	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We're discussing this possible non-existent sea cable and it's getting rough. The metaphor used: Caring about a house that needed to be painted, but the house did not exist. It is now that these so - called scholars have taken it very seriously that even if the cable does not exist, or that these cross - borders structures do not appear to be there, they must consider it in the induction process. And because. paritaprevir Hrafn Hraffni Gunnarsson, and, in fact, his party brother, boy. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, has been told that it is important to keep facts in order, not to feed on fear, and not to have discussions that are falling for something that isn't, I will hold back from this: If there's no danger, if there's no doubt left, why the warnings? Why doesn't the majority of the Committee have full confidence to generate the energy package? With all the advantages presented here, and with no miseries, it should be safe. Is it so that the majority of members of the council do not put full confidence in the basics of the opinion of Stefán Már and Friðrik of Hirst Árni, since it is believed that it is in the Senate resolution and that it is designed to have belts and shoulders? Tilts and shoulders on what? Because they are not precedents, people naturally ask themselves: " Am I holding the defenses? [[The president calls.]] They have not been mentioned to me here, and I have asked several senators whether they know the examples of their existence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u169	A respectable president. I've heard that question a lot now. I just can't quite figure out where it comes from. She must follow the suggestion that they should not be. I would personally care if they weren't because I thought they were unnecessary, but I would like them to be with me for the simple reason that I care that others don't feel bad about their decisions in terms of governmental records. I respect that. I think it's a perfectly normal question if any matter conflicts with a constitution or not, especially the EEA case. I wish I had more time to go to more expeditals in a constitution that we need and all that. It's a big discussion, and I respect it. It's enough for me to have this kind of advance, just before. A senator and other skeptics. It was quite clear when the matter was being discussed before the Senate case, when the third pack of energy itself was discussed in the community, that a lot of members, or at least some members of the Independence Party, specifically, simply publicly declared that they would not support it. I suppose there was something to say about their concern being taken seriously and putting in this notice, in agreement with these good lawyers we've been talking about. It eased their concern. I like it. I think it's much better that we're accepting a case that most people are comfortable with when it comes to the constitution, like our oath. I don't really know how to explain this any better. If that answer doesn't work out, I'm afraid I haven't had any more. That's why I would be there. My personal opinion is they're not necessary. But it's just nice to have them inside. It doesn't cost anything. Why not have them? Then we'll just be safer. It's just cool.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u170	A respectable president. This case has been discussed here, back and forth today, and the states are under way. It has been asked: Do we worry about the case? Yes, we certainly do. Do we count in the Middle Order for a second course? Yes, we think so. Have we suggested who it should be? Yes, we have. Is that the way of the EEA deal? Yeah, she's good. Have experts advised us to go that way? Yes, they have. The answer to all these questions is yes. Here, supporters of the matter have come up in the long years of the crisis and have warned us about all kinds of terrors, dishonesty, and I don't know what. Of course, these things happen, but I just hope that we're going to take the discussion to a more objective source of less personal shock than we've been here today. As in both directions. The big picture in this case is that most people in here, I think, or all, have experienced at some point that they feel bad about it. I heard why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson speaks in such a way that he felt at the outset. [[Up front.]] - Right on. Then I think I'll let myself believe that at some point, everyone in this room had doubts about the matter. As the case has developed since then, there have been discussions between the members of the administrations, there have been digestions from advisers. V.E.G. Not long ago, a minister of state said in an interview that he envisioned to postpone the case until the fall, at the time of the highest court. Prime Minister felt that the case should be conducted at this spring council. That's why, I can say for myself, I feel really bad about the thing, because it was like it just happened overnight that everyone took the bait and swallowed it. All the skeptics of the board. It was like everybody was spinning the same day. A group of trusted men, some of our best men, seemed to swallow the reasonings of the Ministers. They started to write the same article, and it was published each day from each of them. The look on your face. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson indicates that he did not write the same article. Then I recall that I do not remember that this article from him, all the others who wrote it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u171	On Facebook.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u172	- It could be on Facebook, probably. I think they were making some kind of alibi to hang their hat on later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u173	Do you have a speech from Sigmundur?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u174	Yeah, yeah, that's fine. But about the case. There they are the warning given by the supporters of the case that they seem to think is sufficient to prevent them from accepting the case. Then I develop a case - of course, I'm not a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, but the information I received from it was that meetings were directed by firmness and discretion. Hv. The chairman will just be reading what I'm saying with those words. I don't think it's clear that they weren't allowed to call the visitors whom the Committee wanted to see to the committee. Of course, questions arise in such a process, giving large numbers of visitors a viewpoint. In this matter of equal importance, although many say that there is nothing in it, I don't feel that the Committee's procedure has prompted us skeptics to be comfortable with the matter. [[You should've just been there.]] Yes, there would have been many who would have found it more widely. And some independents may not always be on time. Let it be between parts. Much of the discussion has been made to try to omit the viewpoint of members of the Central Party on the grounds that they have missed a certain meeting or that they have been in the government during a certain period of time with independents and so forth. I think it would be good for us to approach the matter the way it is, and there's a lot of doubt that there's some sense in this introduction. Sadly, most of the supporters of today's campaigns have been so personal in length that there is little chance that we are getting closer to calm those who have doubts. It is claimed that all doubt has been resisted. If so, these examples are, of course, mere outward show. If all doubt has been met - all, as stated, is beyond my understanding of why people want to approach the matter in a way that puts them on one side before me, I'll tell them. This warning has certainly been discussed with some of our friends abroad. But why can't the case be sent to the Joint EEA Committee, as the process is really ready? Is it not clear that such a process exists? I think so. At least I see him. Ármannsson You don't have to shake the head like a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Both Stefán Már Stefánsson, Friðrik Á. Friðriksson Hirst and Carl Baudenbacher have all specified this route. All of them. [[Up front.]] - Well, it isn't? [[Up front.]] I don't know any better than I do. That's exactly what we're going to get right here on this matter. To skeptics, today the matter seems quite much like another matter that we discussed at a meeting yesterday that had to do with pregnancy breaking or abortion, it seems to skeptics on this matter. I don't think I've been mixing these matters. You don't have to answer for that. It's the experience of having to finish this with a kind of Δblitz rush. We need to get this through as fast as we can. This is part of the fact that the issue is taken up in the way that it did. I'm having a hard time believing that, because that's enough time for Congress to come. There's been three weeks left of organized meetings. There would have been no risk in giving the case one or two more days on a committee, just none. For some reason, they chose a way not to permit it. I must say for myself, in addition to this, that I am, as some know in this room, a great skeptic of the possibility that our good nation will become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u175	... EU position.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u176	I think the lines are similar. [[Up front.]] I'm about the size of the EU as I am a Liverpool fan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u177	You too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u178	The lines on the front side of the board are so clear that the EU Member States follow the case, but we, on the other side, have doubts about it. We also have doubts about this matter. Because on its own, these fine groups that want to go on that road have always wanted to bring everything together suddenly to ten and a point and a plag. It is claimed that those who have doubts about the third energy package are being undermined by the EEA Convention. It is not in itself a result of the shooting that those at the highest rate are, at least In my opinion, preferably likely to be doing exactly that, put the EEA Convention at risk. Why do I say that? If one of our concerns in the Middle East is going to work out first, we've put pressure on the EEA deal. What's been shown in countless speeches today is that these are some of the other people's contracts that want to undermine the EEA deal, I think it's just a misunderstanding. At least I'm not that group. Some may have it as part of their reasoning, but it is not over the line. I'm of the opinion that some of our concerns in the Central Party are really going to get pressure on this deal first. Then you just have to face it. Much has been said about today's views expressed in the opinion of the lawyers, Stefánsson Moorsson and Friðrik AÁ. Hirst's son in his opinion. In fact, supporters of the case hang heavily on the letter they sent to the minister of foreign affairs after the end of their previous siege. of the case, April 10, 2019. It is only natural that supporters of the case would like to select a paragraph out of the non - long text one A4 page. However, the lawyers confirm that this is a delay for the legal problem. In effect, it is transferred to the time when a cable will be laid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u179	If.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u180	- Once a cable is laid. I'm beating up a little bit like when the European Convention Committee of the Old Iceland had already negotiated a seven-year bill for the first Icesave deal. The approach is somehow we'll cross that bridge when we get to it. The lawyers say in section 4 of this form of memo delivered, by permission of the president: We also suggested another way, that the Council rejected the introduction and that the case would be restored to the joint EEA committee with the view that Iceland would receive an exception. This means that there is a legal advantage beyond the means set out in which it does not include the legal uncertainties described above. I don't have a number for how many times a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has read 1st. This memo. It begins, with president's permission, with the following: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamental to the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with a rule plan. [[Up front.]] - We're just talking about things the way they are, okay? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I hope that at any rate, you respect me for the pity that I'm talking for the first time, and I don't know that I tried to make any opinions or put words in my mouth. Then I'll have to say back, after your errors in speeches recently ago, that they were the most selective sentences you took out of that same memo yourself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u181	Do not address a candidate in 2nd person.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u182	Excuse me. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Thank you for the tip. Somehow in this case, the concern lies in this potential sea cable development. That's where the incision leads. The real worry. It's not too many years since we sat down with a government for four years, 2009,2013, where the second government leader said the day before election: no, no, no. And then, in a way: We will not establish a government applying for involvement in the European Union. Three weeks later, it was as if we were in that process. So what worries at least I'm afraid this can happen very fast. We can only see that a government formed in such a way that the interest of more is for this approach, can drive through quite quickly. That's why I think it's possible that we finish this debatt now with this induction, but we don't delay into some indefinite future time that we can possibly choose from how the winds might blow into the Board of Government temporarily after a few years. I'm not going to have any more of these words of mine now, but I hope that this discussion will develop and be objective until the end. I'm urging all of us to be careful in this matter. I think that the way we middle-class members suggest, to refer the case to the European Commission, is an excellent solution to the suspicion of the matter. It would be worth at least one Mass to start there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u183	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. He spoke there about the other way. Another way that'd be successful under contract. I would now consider it permissible under contract. It's different whether she's good or not. He suggested there that there was an expert who said yes. But this is just one opinion from two experts whom he referred to, not from five to six other lawyers who say something else. These include Baudenbacher - in fact, no middle class representative was at a meeting. He also considered it permissible but impossible. So I ask, why does the senator choose only this opinion of two experts who are using machines to support his case? How did he prove to himself what he claimed, that Baudenbacher said it was a good way? Because he didn't. [[The president calls.]] And at the latest, count him. A senator that the Norwegians have opened the way for ACER to have access to the provision of energy sources in Norway according to the third energy package, as follows, for Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u184	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the question. First about Carl Baudenbacher. I have to admit, I'm not equipped with weapons, I don't have his file, and I have to kind of promise you why. There's a senator coming up for another speech, and I'll just review them. Regarding the domestic lawyers, it is as if the report and the report of Stefán's Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst have been all over the discussion and without any doubt the report and the work that most has been seen about the potential warnings and doubts about the administrative situation. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll come back later and answer some more domestic reviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u185	Mr. President. Thank you. ▪ All of them, that particular opinion? Well, that's normal. It's for the Central Class. The others thought, what. Senator, you're out of your league. That's why you won't witness to them. This is what has been presented in the discussion, that this choice of opinion is just what suits the presentation. They're taken and the others are stabbed under a chair, pretty much. Because there are plenty of others who say this isn't going well, including this former president of the EFTA Court. As for Norway, I ask about this because it shows in the opinion of these two experts also that ACER has the authority to interfere with energy production in Iceland. I'm asking why. A senator really thinks Norway actually gave up this right to ACER - Norway, with all his knowledge of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, it is right at first to remember that there are several differences in energy markets between Norway and Iceland. Simply from geography. We are alone and isolated in the Atlantic, compared with Norway's selling energy across the border for a considerable period of time. First, I'd like to say that we can't make decisions about people's concerns in Norway. I think we'd be in trouble first if we were to try to approach a situation that way because Norway has a very different opinion about it. If the question was, did the Norwegians give up rights for their resources, I think the question, exactly that is, is not what my concerns are based on. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it is the control of the energy concerns, not the resources themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u187	V.E.G. President. I didn't have much conviction about speaking at any time. Senator. I was a bit skeptic at the time, and I told the men: We have to make sure that we have the authority over the resources, we figure out if there is a sea cable, and we can control what companies are doing here. I haven't had a decent reason that something in the contract or in the energy package, in the rule bookwork, will fix this. Then I ask: Is the senator arguing that even if there are no direct rules or directives, it is simply an interpretation by considering the whole contract, the energy package itself, that they can control it anyway? That because we are on the inside, such an arrangement must be made? [[The president calls.]] Is that what they're trying to say? I could understand that argument, but there's nothing in this package that should cause us any concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u188	A respectable president. I have to promise you a relief tomorrow in terms of giving my speech with great emotion and determination. Hv. paritaprevir Beggar Níelsson's son must wait till the morning with excitement. I suppose he, as in the past, was only able to help a man with a certain point of the matter that I could say that I did not succeed in speaking a word earlier. Of course, it's part of the worry that you've been tracking the development of the European Union and its institutions for a long time. The development of all of this is central control and the use of fingers in more and more things that I personally think the European Union should stay away. It's part of the worry I have in this case. That the European Union or its institutions will move on the basis of this third package or the fourth and fifth package when they arrive at the assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u189	V.E.G. President. Then I think we've reached the real point because I was just trying to help out that there might be some feeling behind this. So we're not discussing the whole EEA deal? Is it not true, then, that this contract may, in the long run, be not a big interest to us? Would that not be a good conversation? In the energy pack myself, I don't see what men are talking about, the worry that humans have. I feel very farfetched that it can be seen. In view of the development of the European Union and this cooperation, people will likely begin to say: " If you're going to be involved, you'll just have to be on it properly. I guess that's what you're worried about, huh? Central platoon members.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u190	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He is welcome to greet us at the Hall and discuss these matters at all times. So, what we're suggesting is that we take advantage of the requirements of the EEA Convention we believe to be skilled in this matter. I'm not at the point in private that this is a reason to record the whole EEA deal. If it ever does, it'll probably end with Iceland making two-way contracts in one way or another, as we're doing many times a year. I think if we were to succeed in going the way that is already written into the contract it might be to defend the contract for a longer time than this Salama pathway, which has been talked about, is, of course, exhausting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u191	A respectable president. I just want to think that I don't insist that he reads the whole document he quotes. It's all right to pick something from some documents, it's just good and blessed, and so it fits your cause. But that is not honest when rhythmically releasing things that are in direct contrast with what you are saying yourself. I haven't done anything like that. That's what I was pointing out. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Izz the son of Ísleifsson here, hoping that's all that's come to pass. I wanted to ask you what. A senator's question. In view of the fact that groups have said things that will then not prove right when they arrive at the council, he is concerned that the transpiration of apes could be very rapid. You see, I share their concerns with them. Senator. As I said before, I'm against a cable, I don't think it's compatible with Icelandic interests. But I don't see what it is about the third energy package, which would make it easier to fix such a cable. I don't see what it is about the third energy package that the government would imagine would make it easier for her to suggest it. [[The president calls.]] She might suggest it today to lay a cable. Don't need the third energy package, knowing that. I wanted to ask you what. Senator: What is it in the third energy package that makes it easier for the government to put a cable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. Like what? A senator would say there was no basis for a sea cable to be laid and a decision made tomorrow, I understood the Senator's words correctly. I suppose we'd be selling energy into the European market on a possible basis - now I'm not thinking about this, but I'd think the Russians were doing it on a similar scale, being outside the European community, selling a lot of energy, gas, and oil into that market. So our position would really be comparable in this regard. We would have more freedom in domestic matters. We wouldn't be up to this so-called ACER monitor hat, and that situation would be in many ways I think, without being prepared with a thought - provoking answer, I'd be more thoughtful than being suddenly connected into this system when a decision is made at any later stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u193	A respectable president. I can only tell you what. A senator about at least according to my understanding of this matter, and I've considered it a little bit, is nothing to help the government put a sea cable if she wants to. On the contrary, as if I were going against what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson earlier today, I thought approval of the third energy package would make it harder for her. Because then we'll expect to come back this constitution question to fix the cable, but only if we accept the third energy package. It is a requirement for that constitution question to come back. Otherwise, it will never be in the context of a cable and thus not be a troublemaker. The second thing that I think is important, if we are concerned that ACER or ESA will be taking a break in our affairs, that if a third energy package is introduced before a sea cable is laid, these energy institutions are expected to have harmonized their rules before it arrives to the sea cable and therefore never need any conversions of ESAs and no need to replace the ACER. [[The president calls.]] It would only be accepted from the very beginning by both institutions of energy, as stated at Article 8. I can just repeat the question, What is it about the third energy package that worries you anyway? A senator with a cable? What's the bad energy package about a cable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Very short: What's bad is that when a cable gets plugd after X years, we'll be right away under this regular work, which is an acER. That is actually the answer to the question why I have doubts about the induction of the third energy package in the way it is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u195	A respectable president. I need to get up there and correct that word. A member of the Parliament was involved in the work and the work of the Committee. He is now the first senator to come up here to discuss this specifically, but he is not one of the members of the Central Party who attended the meetings of the third energy package. [[Up front.]] They were many, and they spanned six if not seven meetings, with all the guests we called, many, and we spent all those hours in the discussion, extended meetings, and set up extra meetings so that we could discuss the matter further and respond to all the requests for visitors at that time. Then there was no criticism. The members of the Central Party are to handle the matter or complete it in a way that was announced last week. It's very special to come up here and discuss this bad procedure by the Committee. Those who attended that meeting are quite clear what happened to them. [[The president calls.]] These visitors were taken for the committee requested at that point. There is a great harmony among all other members of the committee and other members of the administrative body that this was the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u196	A respectable president. Thanks for the cross. Senator and chairman of the State Department, Áslajar Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. There was no particular question about this, did I not understand it correctly? [[Up front.]] But I just make that observation. So that doesn't change -- now I try to put it very carefully - that my perception of news from committee meetings and to some extent the blunder of the case is fraught with light. Chairman here just a minute ago. But I don't doubt it, as I once put it, that she led the committee with great zeal in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u197	A respectable president. I appreciate that. Then, straight ahead. The speaker's point was that the reasonings of those who want to accept the matter focus solely on the fact that someone has not attended a meeting or that someone has done something about it before. Of course, there is also a great outback and a complete addition in this matter, so it is not relevant to itself as it is clearly evident when the majority opinion of foreign authorities is read. There are reasons for this. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in the minority opinion of the State Department. I've asked twice today where it appears in the third energy package, something to say is to divide large energy companies, such as Landactivation, as it is claimed completely as a fact in the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department. I haven't found it yet in the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-14-104.u198	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that I don't think it's unreasonable for a member of the Central Party to mention so much at the end of the discussion today that he was very often involved in a meeting at the end of the last week. That has often been mentioned by the supporters of the case, just to be said. [[Up front.]] To answer that question, in fact, the prominent minority opinion, as expressed earlier today, has not been overrated, and this part is part of what has not been presented. I'll have to wait till morning with that. I'll review these arguments in my second speech. I asked why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson of this matter. I think we're getting close to this tomorrow.
