ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u2	President. Today will be the highest. The secretary of transportation is going to sign a contract with the city of Reykjavík and neighboring communities for an enormous amount of transport planning. I don't know if it's the highest. The secretary of finance will sign this agreement, too. In this case there are a number of surprises, but the latest is that the Minister refuses to hand it over, even refusing to show the Council's Transport Committee. Some senators, however, have been given a presentation on these plans in the form of some kind of advertisement learning show. It is clear that this is a planned government budget for a very long time, and as a result, it is very strange that the council has no more access to it than it has really been. It is also planned to hire citizens of the capital area just for driving through the streets that the people have already paid with the taxes and all the traffic expenses. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Will he let this happen? I'm going to the top. The secretary of finance to finance the U.S. election for the city's population in Reykjavík, spending tens of millions of dollars, either from the state's money or from an additional charge by the citizens of the capital area? It's the highest. The secretary of finance for his role, prepared to step in there and stop this until the council can have access to the situation, at least were given a presentation on what this agreement really looks like?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u3	A respectable president. I think there's some misunderstanding about what's going on. It is asked if there is no need to intervene in order for the council to have access to the situation. Of course, there are all these conversations, a statement intended to sign today, with the awareness that there is a law in the country on transport. Nothing is going to happen, either on government spending or on individual transport projects, unless the council first discussed and adopted it in a transport program, in a long-term budget plan, on budgeting, etc. This is about a city line. What is a city line in mind? A senator? I can foretell my day that this is a city transport, where there is a new opportunity to add the extra lane so that public transportation can be done there. There will also be trucks, taxis, and after incidents if you decide to do so in favor of payable traffic, cars with three or four passengers, etc. Based on today's traffic dams, I think that men should welcome special efforts, campaigns to facilitate better transport in and around the capital with the plans to be found in the agreement that will be signed today on the part of the State in order to establish the future policy. The problem is that there has been a complete construction stop in the capital area, and now it is to be turned around and underprivileged to solve a problem that everyone sees is no longer able to look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u4	Mr. President. A policy plan did not authorize the grand budget for the long future that has been introduced to some members of the council and not to the means that have been announced. V.E.G. The secretary of finance seems to have his ideas that he described earlier on what a city line is. These ideas seem very different from those of the United States, and the current mayor was introduced to his campaign. It is then a question of what will be on top, either these ideas or anything else. The key point is this: A contract is being signed for something that no one knows what is and should cost tens of billions, and likely at the end, well over 100 billion and even up to 200 billion. No one knows how this should be, but it should be signed and not even shown to the council before it is signed. The pay will be paid, the penalty for traffic, for those in the delay, but no one seems to know how to do it. However, it should be signed without allowing the council to do so or showing the council so much as the agreements that will be signed later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u5	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has identified the central issue, which, of course, will be asked. Congress will eventually manage, e.g. Whether a partner will be set up to be authorized to collect fees that would be part of the changed round of the country we've already discussed in this hall that we're facing a change. This is simply part of the development that occurs, that we have lower costs for importing vehicles. In the future, we will see fewer vehicles entering fuel stations, helping to facilitate transport projects in our transport system, i.e. The fuel costs will remain as a currency. These are just exciting times, and there is nothing to be afraid of. In this case, there is nothing more ahead than a better future, a more efficient transport, a lower speed of transportation, better public transportation, more cycle path, and a better community. [[The president calls.]] The government is committed simply to offer these suggestions for the council and discuss them there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u6	Mr. President. Now it's got the highest. Prime Minister on behalf of the Icelandic State demanded acquiescation of the Divine Guðjón of Skarphéðinsson, as permissible in the affairs of the Guðmunds and the Geirriður. We need to remember the history of the matter. Skarphéðinsson was in custody for 1,202 days. He spent four and a half years in prison. For four decades, Guðjón's servants fought Skarphéðinsson's son and others endured in this case in the case of their own rights, which finally seemed to be a success at the end of September last year when the Supreme Court acquiesced Guðjón. The conclusion is: Guðjón was an inhuman treatment of official power, first in custody for 1,202 days, in a prison cell for four and a half years. The Icelandic state is responsible for that. Despite the acquiescation, recognition of reform rights by order of the Synod Committee, and apology, the highest request is required. Prime Minister now acquiesces to reform requirements on behalf of the United States of England. I'm waiting for the highest. The prime minister to explain to the United States and the whole nation how it came to the conclusion that because Guðjón the wrongs that the Icelandic state committed on it, he was not entitled to do. It is confirmed that the report was on the table of prime minister for two weeks before being delivered into court. Can the prime minister confirm that she has either studied and accepted the standards of judgment presented in the report or has it not? Mr. President. To quote at the interview at Guðjón's Light last night, with the permission of a president: The best way to answer is to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u7	Mr. President. I want to reiterate what I said here when the Supreme Court judgment fell, and I apologized to those who were then forgiven on behalf of the Icelandic government. That apology is what it says. As a result, there was a body of reconciliation that we have at times discussed at the council's scene. Her work took a considerable amount of time, and I have also discussed at the council's court that I would have chosen her to have finished her work sooner, but at the same time I admit that the matter is complicated and alone in Iceland, so there is no envy in the work given to the Commission. Hv. A senator enters me after my stand on this matter. Then I'd like to enlighten him and others. Councilmen that tomorrow I intend to give a bill to the government, which I will then order in the Council and ask for the authority to make an agreement with the judges since September 2018, on the other hand, for the survivors, and for the descendants of those who were then acquitted. I think it is very important that in view of the growth of the situation, because there is a prelude to the improvement of the Guðjón of Skarphéðinsson, the general taking sides in the matter and the amount of money I will propose so that the General Assembly and the legislature will speak clearly in that matter. Regarding the report made by a state attorney on the case as a matter of course. A member of the council asks specifically, so that in general, reports are being made when a state attorney defends the Icelandic government in the name of the Commission, if applicable, and if considered by an agent from 2013. [[The president calls.]] Let me see how the work force has been in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u8	Mr. President. A state attorney representing the prime minister is represented, and just as other lawyers do, he has a clear right not to be the same with his client. It's perfectly clear where the responsibility lies. However, I am pleased to hear that there will be a new turn of events, but I ask: "Why now? Why wasn't this done before? I would also like to ask, "Did I not think of a prime minister changing the situation where my duties were at least positive? " Recognition and demand dropped. The point of this matter is that it can smell well. It's all about the heart of the nation, and it's been for 40 years. I haven't had enough, chief. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u9	Mr. President. I think that's what we're doing. A senator agrees. The key is the good smell of this subject. Hv. A senator asks why do I bring a bill now? I would have chosen to have had an agreement with at least More people before the bill was submitted. In the August, issue of Awake! I assigned a state lawyer to continue looking for an agreement with the authorities, but that is not the case. However, in view of the discussion, I thought it was just the most direct and honest, in view of also the fact that much seems to be kept secret in public discussion, that the Council would receive only a bill in which the matter was traced from the beginning to the end, and then the Council could take sides with the proposal for continued reconciliation. That was the most direct approach to this matter, and we all play the table on the basis of the Commission's work. That's why I'm bringing this here now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u10	President. Hv. The director of the Conspiracy traced the matter well ahead of me, so I'm not going to do it again, but I'm going to ask the same question. I'm very interested in your answers. The prime minister in this matter and is glad to hear that she intends to end it in a fair way and is looking for an compensation for Skarphéðinsson's son Guðjódin. Then I ask: Why was this body of reconciliation apparently completely ordered without the authority? Wasn't there a mistake? Why was there no desire to find peace in this reconciliation committee? Why is it necessary to create another process of reconciliation after a process was established that would reach that conclusion? I'd also like to ask, as this state attorney was inside the Ministry for two weeks, whether it's the highest. Minister has read it and if it's the highest. Prime Minister agrees with the report, i.e. In harmony with the fact that Guðjón is personally responsible for his being condemned, as is indicated. If the highest. The prime minister does not agree with this report, why did she approve of it? Is it not reason to apologize again for the appearance of a state lawyer? On whose authority does he present himself in this way? That's a lot of questions, possibly too many, but I reiterate the question of the highest. The prime minister has agreed with this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u11	Mr. President. First we ask why. Senator on the commission of the Synod Committee. The commission of the reconciliation was clear. She was appointed representatives of prime minister, secretary of finance, and Minister of Justice. Its mission was to make a suggestion for the possible payment of failures and damages to the relevant parties and non-reflectors after events in accordance with the general rules of damage rights, and to offer proposals for possible legislation in the light of these different circumstances of both descendants and others. The commission was clear. However, it is true that this assignment took a very long, long time, and longer than I would have chosen. But the commission lay in place, and the committee had come a long way with this case in the last spring when it ended and she actually returned to me her commission, an article, and thought that she would not get any further with the case. But the bill I intend to put before the government tomorrow rests entirely on the work of the Peace Committee at the time. This is completely in the way. The big thing about it is that there were people who were unjustly treated as free people on the part of the State. That's why I appointed the Peace Committee, so that's why my will was to try to reach some sort of agreement on a reasonable payment of the case. Then, when one individual comes to court, the matter begins to take action by a state lawyer, and the tradition of taking action is certainly the case. What I didn't come clearly enough that in my answer to the why. paritaprevir It's Logi Einarsson's work plan at the Board of Directors has been that, despite being represented by the Executive Director, he actually has a very self - analysis of the procedure. I think this work ethic requires a review of the fact that this report had three problems, but it was not presented to any of the stewards they specifically carried. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, this work ethic requires a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u12	President. There are so many things in this and I don't have time to ask about everything, and I just want to ask very clearly: Prime Minister? I haven't yet received the answer to that question. Did she read the report? And does she agree with the report? There is no way to wash your hands off these things and to say that a state attorney is to go on his way. That's not true. That's not how the state of rights works. The government is to protect the rights of its citizens, not defend the State by mouth. The government's interests are the rights of its citizens. It's not like taking personal action, I just can't understand it that way, and I find it strange that the prime minister would look at it that way. I'm going to ask you again: The prime minister of the report, and does she agree with it? Does she agree that this was Guðjón's son Skarphéðinsson's God - given assignment, as the report says? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u13	Mr. President. The report was sent to the press by three conferences. She wasn't particularly familiar with me, and I didn't read it. The Management Board's work program has been such that when a state lawyer wins a paper, it is in a very independent manner. It is out of harmony with the opinion of an agent from 2014 that I mentioned in a previous answer, which has pointed out that it is the role of the Executive Director to have an opinion of a government lawyer's reports. It has not been the work force, so it is my decision now, as well as the bill I present, which shows my will and the government on the case to achieve a fair solution, to review the kind of work that has already been carried out when it comes to the defenses of the state. It has been the custom, as I said before, to resort to the utmost defense. It has been the work force. A senator says it's my opinion. However, I was describing what has been practiced. [[The president calls.]] I think it is very important that the Board of Directors as a group reviews the commission of an agent on the issue of the European Commission's involvement in the case of a state attorney at any given time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, there must be one general rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u14	President is urging the highest power. Minister to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u15	Mr. President. It has been found in inquirys about the Guðmunds and the Geronos that the prime minister has not seen the matter. It has been reported that the report was sent, not just to the Ministry of Presidency, but to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Justice, and none of the Ministers have studied the report in the largest and most difficult legal case in Icelandic history. A prime minister could be commended for her quick apology, but the matter was not followed. It is then to be drawn into a church hall that has a good name for the highest. A secretary of transportation earlier this week said we didn't do it. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, who clearly did not read the report, agrees with her. It's the highest. The prime minister agrees with the report that went out on behalf of the State? Let us remember, too, that the dignitary president of the United States specifically said: A state attorney is not some independent force. A state attorney, like all other lawyers, presents the highest standards on behalf of his clients. And who are the clients of the state attorney in this matter? It's the Icelandic government, it's the state led by the left green, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, in cooperation with an independent and forwarding party. That's the way it is now, that we can't do it decently and take care of it. There is nothing wrong with a court of opinion about the sum of money. But to go as far as the article says is concerned is something far more than thoughts. Ministers ought to be ashamed there unless the Minister says so, and agree with me. Yeah. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and others, that this is just official work. What kind is that? Don't you think it's time we subtract the human race into this miserable case? Human beings don't come from Iceland's government right now, so I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is she willing to agree with the report as it comes from a state lawyer on behalf of the government of Iceland? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u16	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator misjudges the matter if she feels that it is now to be drawn into the Senate Hall. It was absolutely from the beginning, and has been observed many times in the discussions on these matters, that from the time the committee was appointed, the matter would enter the chamber. It's been lying completely in it like a dog. A senator knows if she has followed up on the subject. It is reported that not all parties of this legal case are entitled to improve. Hence, it was up to the Council of Peace to try to achieve a global meeting that would result in a bill at the General Assembly, which would be based on such a comprehensive view of the matter. Right away. A senator speaks of me as dragging a case into a council hall that doesn't belong at home is completely aware that if we are going to try to end these matters fairly to those who are in pain, it will have to come to the hands of the Generals, even as the case is unprecedented. Since this is unprecedented, it also calls for my knowledge of a particular government of the Generals when it comes to making a decision as to whether a reasonable solution has been found. Hv. A senator criticizes the progress of a state lawyer's report. I'm just gonna be honest with it, like I was here earlier and I hope it is. The senators appreciated it, I see no reason to play some hide-and-seek, that here the work here has been in a way that a state lawyer has turned in a report and they have not usually entered a board of ministers. That's just the way it is. It has been the work force, and that's what I'd like to have revised, on the contrary to the Board of Directors, not in order for Ministers to interfere in political affairs, is not the issue, but in order to fill up what has been criticized by the Generals' agent that it is not, that the execution of public law is made aware of every time it takes action. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't been done sufficiently, and I'm sorry, but I don't see any reason to hide anything in that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u17	Mr. President. No one's asking for any hide-and-seek, but there's been a request for an answer here. It's simple. It was the highest. A secretary of transportation who said he didn't want to bring the case into this chamber. The report was published, the minister has not yet explained whether she agrees with the report or not. Prime Minister will not compensate for the damage caused by bringing responsibility to the General Assembly. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What does the bill say? What's on the bill and it's got the highest. Minister speaking, including With Skarphéðinsson and the Guðfundurs of the Guðmunds and Geirfjörn on the whole trial waiting for the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u18	Mr. President. I've had a meeting with a variety of participants, and I've discussed this matter with them, as well as my idea of bringing in a bill. I have done so in the early stages of matters with various sources, including Guðjón's Skarphéðinsson, Guðjón. The bill has the authority to pay compensation on the basis of which the report goes on. The bill does not contain any attempt to take people's rights into court later. Rather, it is the right of the people. On that basis, we will have conversations with the party and we will be having conversations with the people and we've been in these months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u19	A respectable president. Let's stick to a court case, not the Guðmundur and the Geirfjörn, but the first legal case that the people's party had because of the retrospective violations of the senior pensions. The judgment was pronounced in the court of the land this spring, and the conclusion is, THE Court's judgment showed that after enforcing the law of No. 116/2016 would have been required to obtain a pension without impairment as a result of paid on the basis of mandatory job-related pension funds, until that is the law of No. 9/2017 went into effect. This challenge would be protected at 72 C.E. the constitution and since it would have been paid for enunciation of law No. 9/2017 would not be restricted by repetitious and burdensome legislation. So agreed to the demands of S. S is the mother of Inga Sæland Land. The most interesting thing about this is that the tolerated laws were adopted at the General Assembly by 33 votes. 19 sat by, and only two members of the council were opposed to breaking the law. That must be a serious matter when the Council violates the law. It doesn't have to tell me, with all the lawyers in here, that people didn't know what was going on there, that they were breaking the constitution. Now the law is paying off and I'm asking for it. Minister of Social Affairs: What's the average amount of money being paid out to older citizens? What's the total amount? And when does he expect this to be fully paid?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. He was here tracking problems with legalization at his time, changing the Social Security Act and what they would have caused. We build the bill, its lecture in the Ministry of Economic and Presidency, a review in the council, a commission, a review, and so forth, no one saw this mistake corrected in February 2017. By then, it was two months since the execution of the law, and it was about this judgment, to be paid for the two months involved. The total volume I plan to trace below, but the nature of the case, according to the State, tested whether this had been done correctly. The district Court concluded that the State had done the right thing. So the court dismissed the case. The total amount that this will bring and pay is about to begin in this month or the next about 6 billion dollars. This judgment means that the total pay that will be paid out will be 6 billion. Regarding the case that was put to the test at Floki's, the total pay due to that was 60,000. I don't regret the money that goes into this because of this mistake. What I find bloody bloody in this case is that not all of the busiest groups that get capitalized. Just over 3 billion of those 6 billion receive two of the largest tenths of the elderly. The largest adjustments in these incomes are 400,000,500,000. each person so that the case that was appealed at his or her time on the basis of a 60,000 k, which I feel completely understandable, sadly yields to half, 3 billion, to the largest two - year - old society, which I feel is bloody. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I feel sad about it, and I would have wanted to use this money to improve the lowest income level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for answers, but panic was a disgrace. If we make mistakes, we will acknowledge our mistakes and improve them, but the Council was judged, violated laws, and the taking of those with much or little matters is of no consequence in this regard. If you break the law and you're going to fix it, you will. And it is pointless to take offense and try to defend the fact that these have gone to those with the highest income, not to those with the lowest. We can turn it around, totally turn it around. It's always being floundering on the lesser ones, and they make the most of it. It has nothing to do with it, but you're supposed to keep your word. The most amazing thing about this is that no one has apologized after this. No one has apologized. The media forgot this, and independence, and later it was independence, restoration, and a bright future that approved this. No one has apologized yet to this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u22	A respectable president. It was indeed a mistake to legalize, absolutely right. A senator says, and that is why it was corrected right at the beginning of 2017. The conclusion was that the State had responded sufficiently quickly. So the sentence of the land turned around. As a result, we're paying this out. I don't regret the money that goes there on the lowest income level, but I find it very sad that there are 3 billion of the 6 billion to the two largest incomes and the offer of one political party at the General Assembly. I find that sad. I can't help it if I wanted to use that money for other things so that they could use the lowest income space or the group we're bringing a bill into the council for, those people who don't have rights and we're setting up a special team for. The 3 billion that go to the highest income - former members of the council, former presidents, and former bank managers are receiving 400,000, 500,000, I find it sad, and I find it sad. Of course, this is what the State will do and will pay for it, and it will be done in this month or the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u23	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of a non-inferiority strategy for the 2020 20202023. The proposal is proposed by the Iceland Government under Article 11. Equalization of female and male equal status, No. 10/2008. The motion consists of 24 projects designed to ensure equal positions and equal rights of women and men in Icelandic society and to reflect at the same time the priorities of the government. This was the first time that a project was made up of the government's legal obligation in 1985, showing that there is a clear aim for the integrating of gender in all government policies is to produce real results. All of the projects are linked to the United Nations World Goals in accordance with government policy, the first time it is being carried out in a treatability programme. I hope that Iceland will be among the leaders to achieve world goals 5 on the equal rights of men and women before 2030. We are not yet there, but I believe that we have the opportunity to achieve that goal and share our experience in these matters with other nations, for our global goals are an extremely important guide for all countries to create better communities and reach the clear goals that the nations of the world have agreed on in the realm of the United Nations. The Office of Equal Opportunities at the Ministry of Presidency supervised the development of the plan in collaboration with an equal agent of all measures, as well as consultation with an equal rights firm and equal rights board. A new strategy also considered discussions on the state and development of equality reports by the Directors of Social Affairs (SECs) for the 2015/2017 period at the equal conventions, such as Articles 10 and 11. Equalization, but for the fifth time on March 7, 2018, the council was held. The project was followed by a review of last summer's government consultations and received a total of six comments made to the Ministry. Following this discussion, one adjustment was made in the strategy to Iceland's equal rights fund, while other suggestions in the consultation process will be used to guide the implementation of the programme. A respectable president. We can be proud of our success in equality, for Iceland is considered a global example. But as I said before, we have reached an endpoint. The sexual difference in pay is an absolute confirmation of this, but equal employment is one way to eliminate it. But more and more, we need to look to the general amount of pay that exists between men and women because it is a measure of social discrimination. Most would say that women do less than men if everything is taken into account. They still work in 2019 unpaid jobs far beyond men. We're supposed to be racing to close this gender gap. # Metoo reports from women in this country also revealed violence, harassment and discrimination to women in all US law. This discrimination is multiplied in the case of women of foreign origin, and we also know that discrimination takes on other forms when disabled women are involved. The response to the #methoo movement is one of the priorities of the government, and we cannot enjoy ourselves until we have completely eliminated sexual and sexual violence and harassment. In line with the government's focus, a special office of equality was set up at the beginning of this year in the Presidency Ministry, based on a proposal for a resolution to the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland's Management Board for Equal Opportunities, which brought from the Minister of Social Affairs to Prime Minister. The role of the office is also the case. to keep in mind a comprehensive policy of equality where the Ministry of Presidency plays a key role in the effectiveness of its co-ordination. A control group for overall improvements in sexual violence was set up early in 2018. Its primary role is to resort to progressive and coordinated measures by the government against sexual violence, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment and that Iceland will always be at the top of all forms of sexual violence. The group has presented proposals to the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities on how to improve the rights of violations of sexual abuse and are now being treated at the Ministry of Justice. The group is also working to shape the actions of digital violence. There has been a committee that is under the control group who has the task of molding the Precinct policy for Iceland by means of the establishment of professionals and by consultation with free partners, professionals and students. The group plan to submit their proposals early in 2020. In June. At the same time, the General Assembly agreed to the Council of Social Affairs Directive on action against violence and its consequences, which contains an ambitious three - year strategy. The Ministry has a consistent project to ensure the best integration between these projects and the projects being carried out on the scene of the Ministry. The schedule of equality is based on this job and on previous plans, all with the aim of using knowledge and money as fully as possible in behalf of the jury. A respectable president. A proposal for an equal rights plan includes 24 projects under six chapters. The chapters reflect the importance of the government on the area of equality, where all the Ministry has a role in its implementation. Chapter 1 deals with the administration of seven projects. Among the projects is an assessment of the studies and projects that have been funded from Iceland's Social Remuneration Fund, which was founded on the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights in 2015. The sea is five years old and will be divided for the last time in the coming year and will perform the assessment of how funds have been used during the season. This, however, is a matter that I believe that the Council needs to decide whether it is not willing to maintain a strong balance fund, although the final amount of the fund is always an assessment of the individual. Equalities have to do with the work and policy areas of all recruitments and include many of the advisers with major challenges that have a broad impact on the status and development of equality in this country. The interaction between gender and equality is an important way to achieve the aims of equality to all decisions and policies in the management system. This will continue at the time of a new strategy, as well as the sexual development of economic management and funding, in accordance with Article 1 and 17. Equalization shape and range 18. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, under the custody of the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, and involved with the equal agent of all councils. At the same time, the Department of Transport and Social Affairs will take the focal plan for the 2018-2024 period as a specific consideration from the gender and equality criteria with the aim of correcting the identified gender balances in the implementation and provision of regional measures. This is an assignment that could serve as a model for other Ministry. One of the main objectives of equality is work fairness. The second part of the implementation program includes five projects, including the continuation of work on induction of equally pay certicates in accordance with the law on equally paykeeping, No. 56/ 2017, but already funding has been given to ensure that the implementation of the law works best. It is interesting to learn that the introduction of these laws, which will certainly take time, is due. The institutions and companies that have completed producing equally pay contracts report according to a survey made by the Ministry of Presidency that it has a very positive influence on other aspects of the workplace and in the workplace. So I think we're going to see a considerable improvement in other areas as well as the introduction of these laws. Another project has to do with evaluating the implementation of sexuality laws in the European Commission, which took effect in 2013. In this context, over the last two years the government has supported the efforts of women's business ventures, which have the title of a balanced model, and has made it possible to get companies to equalize the proportions of men and women in the administrations of enterprises, which are covered by the law and particularly by the executives. Then I'd like to mention an increase in parental rights to obstetrics from nine months to 12 months in two phases between 2020 and 2021, where it is assumed that each parent will receive five months of provision and a shared two months. Of course, at the Council will take a position on the final core address of the social and child - care committee on that matter. But the thought is that a part of the maternity will continue to be shared between parents, as well as that of a set number of months with the mother and father, for this is the key to the reply of the sex equivalent of the Icelandic birthworm system. This is a factor in increasing equality in the labour market and in the home and interestingly related that according to a survey conducted by North American legislatures recently during this month, Icelandic fathers are very positive in extending their birthfowl. There is a distinction between Icelandic fathers and other Norwegian fathers, suggesting that Icelandic fathers are more positive in this respect, which is of great interest and raises questions, suggesting that our system has reached a solid foundation in society and that they are actually making changes in values. Chapter 3 of the strategy faces the battle against sexual or sexual violence. With reference to the validation of the European Parliament's contract on prevention and the conflict against violence against women, the new implementation of a national policy strategy for the implementation of the Convention in accordance with Article 10 and 11. He and he are preparing for Iceland's first session in 2021 at the Commission of the Convention, fulfilling his commitments. Another task in this period of implementation is to contribute to the increase of equality within the police ranks. Under the fourth chapter of the plan on equality, education and culture, sports, and youth service, the Ministry of Education and Culture is by means of a number of measures. They are subject in one way or another to correcting sex palaces in the entire educational system as well as to handling the reality reflected by women and girls in sports. The actions include hiding. in addition to promoting education and knowledge of sexual discrimination and sexual harassment, threats and violence among children and young people, as well as all those who work at play, core and high school. In addition, a high priority is to create a safe environment in youth and sports activities that aim to eliminate sexual harassment and violence that are designed to ensure that all can seek help or right without fear of the consequences. Chapter 5 of the projection plan is made up of men and equalities, which include men and women. will be regarded as the role of men in excommunicating culture, characterized by sexual discrimination that promotes and excuse sexual harassment, threats and violence, as well as the potential harm to man's health. The final chapter of the strategy is about the international equality work of Iceland. The Environmental and Resource Ministry is therefore a project designed to increase the awareness of consumers about the negative effects of mass production from environmental and environmental protection policies, as well as the status of women working in the manufacture of such dressings, the importance of the cycle economy and the role of consumers on the demand side. Finally, three projects taken at the State Department are set up to provide more barbershop conferences in international institutions with the goal of operating men in the equal struggle. Then the plan is to implement equality in Iceland's international development team in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme. One action is to remove the sexual business barriers and spread the knowledge that has developed in Iceland regarding equality, e.g. the building fund of the EEA, under the name Justification for exporting. The draft proposal is provided with a report at the head of the report. Social and equal minister (S) then known, on the status and development of equality issues for the 20153/42017 period, as well as the response of the minister to the request for projects in the current 2019 implementation programme. A respectable president. I've been working on a project on an equal rights programme 2020-2023. I think it's an ambitious project and an ambitious plan, but what I think most of it is that equality is not the private matter of any one of the Ministry, that it's all the Ministry to bring a job out of gender reasons, which is, of course, the key to us achieving these tangible changes and development in sex equality. That in itself is an important step. I propose, Mr. President, that the proposal will be referred after this discussion to why. The General and Education Committee and a subsequent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u24	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate, because here we are here with the eighth equal plan that the government puts before the council, and it is important to continue working on equality. A few questions, though. I had the privilege of being an executive for the last equal plan adopted at the council and of observing the march of the program through the council. This plan follows a report covering 2017 and, on the other hand, an answer to a candidate's inquiry that explains the progress of projects. I would like to direct the question to the carrier if we might need a better standard, especially before the council, to cross over a new program on what it really is like. I think there are indications that it is quite good, but I wondered if we could not define it better and maybe even have a simpler form of observing the progress of the projects. There is a natural agreement between tasks, there are only more actions in this program, 24 now than 21 last. Some projects change slightly due to progress, etc. I find that research has shown that there are both the sexiest sex - breeds of sex and the smallest of the sex - breeds that are often the most important tasks that we are using in the sex industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I'm going to address her question about the standards, how we measure the results of counseling. We will receive answers from all aspects of the work that they hear in the current implementation plan for the next February's Appellate Court of Equal Opportunities. All tasks will then be outlined. It is important that we constantly evaluate the progress of the situation, and there may be differences, but then I see that in the work that we have started on the welfare scale in the state's policy, including financial and financial schemes in the future, we need to consider gender issues when establishing new standards. There are bigger standards, and not as many as in the strategy, but I think we need to keep our eyes on something larger to be measured in these big cops as well. So joins with the oar. A senator for gender reasons in the community. It's a big deal, and what interests me is that we're moving the line to where we're talking about and to the use of sensory issues in policy development. Hv. A senator mentioned settlements. We also look to transport projects in different ways as it comes to sensory funding, as it has been shown to make investments in different transport methods for men and women. This is something that I think can expand a little of the transport discussion by adding the gender dimension to the information that teaches us that this can really be true in any case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is that we have to look to the equality issues in so many areas. For example, there was one example, since a child was starting high school, and there was no reason to assume that the baby was taken to a nursery and that the cart was stored during the day. This is a small example of things to consider, that it is a veil. I wanted to go to the maternity room after the measuring votes. Here are very important, ambitious goals. I direct the question to the carrier if it is also necessary to consider those who have no right to maternity waivers or very limited birth reserves and birth strength as well as how we approach it on the basis of equality. The question has come up in the work of a parapolitic committee on the issues of children as one of the factors that need to be considered in equality to provide equality for children from birth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u27	Mr. President. Hv. A senator refers to our birthworm system. With the prolongation of the birthworm from nine months to 12 has been the highest. Social and child - care minister announced a full reexamination of the deliveryor system, including the birth strength as indicated. A senator referred to him. Granted, the birth certificate is limited to those who have been in the job market for a certain time, and then there are other rules that apply to filming students or those who work at home. Here, however, it is important that the council take an informed discussion, for I myself have had such a discussion in this room, where it is not quite easy to find the correct answer. Indeed, the Icelandic maternity system has contributed to the gender equal rights in Iceland by building that one parent does not use the maternity rights. Fathers cannot deliver their birthworm rights to mothers or vice versa. That was even. Viewed in an international discussion as if we had at one time restricted the rights of our mothers, which we were certainly doing, i.e. to shorten the time when the ears were marked with mothers, and they brought the right to the father. However, this raises questions, e.g. when it is a single parent, and the other parent does not have the potential to distribute even though he or she is still alive. It is a tricky matter that we have discussed previously in the field of Congress, and it may conflict with our clear goal of sex equality, and it has produced remarkable results, and then the rights of a child and the number of months of children with a parent. It is probable that the whole reexamination of the birthstorm will take place, but I remind you, the goals originally set by the system we've built were gender equivalents and they have yielded measurable results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u28	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. The prime minister for setting up this strategy and stating that we in the United States are very happy that such a case will arise and that we will be able to make a good contribution to the discussion and that this document will be successful. This is very important to us. We argue that equalizing and equality are essential to a successful, healthy, and powerful society, so that it does not now speak of rhymes with the emphasis on a prosperous society at its height. The prime minister has talked a lot about, and more and more of us are aware of the need to be the answer to future challenges in all possible areas, such as climate issues and just to improve society. We have made great progress in many areas, and we have every reason to be somewhat ignominious and content with what has taken place and should be especially able to set a good example for other nations. But there are other things that may be more slow, and it is now that are, in fact, the formalities, the laws, and the rules that may be relatively difficult to achieve, but then it is always harder to change people's values and ideas. In this case of a millennium-agained system that has definitely been at the expense of equality, it is equally important that we make great weight on that section as high as the highest. The prime minister came in handy. This, of course, refers to sexual violence, sexual favors, and so forth. Of course, I'm worried about this valuable estimate because it's just so amazingly short since you thought it yourself. For me, four sisters who grew up in my home, I was surprised to learn that I had been treated only differently and that I had different expectations than theirs in growing up. I thought, living in a father's home, which injuring and doing things, was relatively equal in that home, but the fact was that when you began to look at it better, there was a reason for these speculations. I completely agree that there were demands of me different from theirs, absolutely unjust. Similarly, as I am in my 60's, I am part of a culture that is not acceptable today and men have to take responsibility for it. Of course, I'm referring to the conversation that has been quite striking with #methoo o.f. I think that's a lot of work to do, and chapter 5 only goes into it, men and equality. I think it matters that we are aware of it and are involved. But I'm worried about it, and we need to be careful that equality will reach up and down all the stairs of society, so to speak. It is essential and good to ensure equality and equality in the management of companies, at councils, at the Ministerial Board and so on. But we also need to be concerned about low-paying women, who may be today's dockmen who do inhuman and hard physical work but carry out a much too low salary. I mean women of foreign origin who may have limited rights, limited voice, and we need to take good care of these groups. Of course, you can't ignore the way the movie is in every area of your country, culture, art, and sports. When I learned in Norway 30, 40 years ago and played handball with a men's team, I was surprised to learn that the women's team was involved. The women's team was the big club at their club, and games with them were shown on Saturdays, and there were 1,500 watching the game with them and 500 with us. One learned that there is no self - righteous thing about men's sports, that it is about values and values, and in that case simply because they were much better, and it was more fun to watch. I think it's very important that we think about this. There were quite a few things that were involved, and I trusted the highest. The prime minister is very good at this class, and I think Iceland's equal rights fund, even though the amount is temporarily reduced, seems to me. I'd like to discuss that I know and realize that we may have more conscious than consciously and undefined rather than defined gender issues, equalitys when it comes to Iceland's foreign policy. This is reflected in our emphasis on many assignments. This is shown in the talks of our international secretary and is published in development. I know it's the highest. I'm sure the prime minister has studied Swazi's foreign policy, which has directly defined the foreign policy as feminic, and I feel that it matters, and I wonder if we should not allow ourselves to say things that directly. We're always getting more and more cases on our plate that stop being language of the individual advisers, who walk up and down the whole stairs. Its equal issues are exactly the same as the climate, somehow it must transinvent every class of subjects and be the dominant of them. That is why I think that in many ways it is most convenient to do so. The prime minister puts his arms around that group, making sure that this is done in all aspects of our country life and that our budgets are sexized, they are really sexized. In fact, research has shown that it is important to consider what type of projects are being undertaken. A sexual development program in the transport system will encourage the use of more efficient transport workers, will encourage public transport, will encourage footprints and footpaths, both because they have found that the users are more proportionate than women, and even more so since they also put women on the job in the construction of these workers. I'm not gonna have this any further. How happy we are that we have received this in our arms, and we will try as much as we can to contribute to the discussion!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u29	Mr. President. I'm happy to have a plan for an equal rights strategy for the 2020/2023 and thank you very much. The prime minister before her story of the matter considered far beyond the scope of this matter. Of course, equality is the whole community. The reason I keep quiet here and I'd like to bring my friend into this discussion is that this morning I was at a breakfast meeting of Iceland's Corning Community, where Kolbeinn Francis H. Stefánsson was introducing his study of the mass development of disability workers. There I found the most interesting and, in fact, striking, of which he said that the microenergy issues are sexist language. The youngest age group includes men in the majority of those who receive disability assessments, while the women grow more and the gender differences increase with increasing life spans. I haven't seen and talked about evolution in the past in such strong sexist light. It's a brand-new report. I find it important that, on the job of a Senate committee and, of course, be doing all the work that also takes place at the highest level. Governments will be looking to this new information, or I'm afraid I'm going to give a new presentation of information that reveals new things. It is of utmost importance when it comes to sensory economic management and funding because so much of the state's spending goes to microenergy pensioners, knowing that there's something different about sex. This also matters to us when we are discussing the workforce, for there is something about the workforce that makes women fall rather out of it because of the rank that may come from something in the community and the same labour market. I know this discussion will continue and will go to the depth. This morning we also learned that by November there will be an insurance agency with a conference that will include a meeting. dealt with the gender forms of pension. Here we are getting a lot of new information that I think is really important that we take along when we discuss what we're going to do over the next few years on equality. Naturally, this is not part of this strategy, the report I am referring to this morning, but I would like to direct it to. The General and Education Committee to examine these data, as well as to refer it to the Ministry of Presidency, and, in fact, to investigate them, because here I think we are getting access to material in order to develop our welfare systems better and to understand even more fully how it affects the sexes of society. After all, I'm just looking forward to having a plan to work like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u30	Mr. President. I would also like to thank the highest. Prime Minister for the story in this case and to bring this to our attention. I have to agree with the last speaker and thank you for her input. I agree with that, I think it's very important to consider the factors. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir mentioned, and we may have to formally include in the text, work, and other matters that we are referring to the circumstances, plans, and so forth when it comes to the group of people whom she referred to. I'm just gonna go over this for a minute. This comes into the committee I am now serving, so I feel that it is only appropriate to discuss it. I'm going to start by talking about the gender economy and the budget. I think we have at least a few minutes. One report that has been published shows that we are on the right track. The Council has been covering some specific factors and the Ministry of finance, e.g. Each time. I think we need to do something even better there. Here we have full - time experts to follow through on this, which I think is extremely important because, as we see in the next chapter on community issues and equality, as it were, only in the past, when we're sharing money and often doing some big job abroad, they are usually responsible for men. However, whether it is a better transportation or not, it can be said that women and all others benefit from their changed and improved community development. Throughout history, however, action on the part of the State or has given money to some large number primarily used for male activities. I also found that the good discussions of equality in corporate governments were good. I'd like to remind you not to. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has a bill that suggests that companies and partnerships can be used to make themselves unable to change the sex ratio into control. Sadly, it is a serious offense. This is the 2010 law and did not take effect until 2013, so it was three years that companies got adjusted. In 2018, there were only 26% companies who pay with women in the normal proportion of control. It was only 33% who had more than 50 people at work who had met this requirement because it is quite true that in governments appointed by men and women, women have more opportunity to carry out governments. I think it's very important that we try to handle this situation in an effort to push companies into business. Today, in 2019, it is nine years since the Law was given, and we are still in this place that is totally unacceptable. It has been discussed considerably about the birthworm. It's been a little bit of our left-green business to extend it and bridge the gap between the nursery and the maternity. During this ideal period, the birthworm will grow to a total of 12 months, an enormous amount of equality. I've got to say my bottom line. The early prime minister, limiting part of the maternity so that fathers must take it, has proved to be a tremendous tool for us, despite its criticism. There are baits to some extent, as was mentioned in the case of single parents and such, but it will likely be taken into account in the overall process of experience. There's a lot of good things here that are about to go to college. There is a bit of a gender ratio in high school and a sexual selection. This, of course, leads to a sexual labour market. A General and Education Committee visited Akureyri, including In high school and college, and we see these developments, especially in college where women are becoming and becoming a lot more in all the colleges of the country. Somehow we need to put our arms around it and change it. It was also nice to walk through all the departments of the School of Education and see the gender differences. For example, what has basically developed in the right direction is that girls go to the boys' industry called, the metal, the construction, and the electrical industry. However, the boys do not attend the traditional women's classes as a nurse. It's a little different in the North, and I found it interesting. There is a strong, purposeful mind at that school and within these colleagues to change it. I know it's a student and professional counselor who's been giving counsel to students in a choice of study, and unfortunately, it's often a deeply entrenched attitude from home that prevents special boys from going into what has been called women's work. What we agreed on at the last assembly with a communication counselor for sports and youth service as the Ministry of Education and Culture came along, I felt that it was so timed out in the light of what we've heard around the #methoo Revolution. I have strong hopes that this will result in real success in people's search ways, and it will also help reduce harassment and other situations that have, unfortunately, been practiced in the sports movement as well as in other places. Regarding studies, it has been observed that perhaps in the process of teaching students about sexual discrimination and harassment, threats, violence, and all of this, students may have to be informed before on the boundaries. They are often sexually active when they begin speaking to them directly. Although this is far from exhaustive, as shown in the report, I want to talk only about sex and consumption, which is part of the report. 21 for international work. We have watched it very much in the media, and we have received all kinds of information as presented here specifically regarding the production and disposal of textil. It was a whole environmental week in Akureyri last summer where it was even. It's under and it's been discussed. A movie was shown to be connected, which was extremely informative and may have encouraged it -- I hope that at least. - that people think more about it. At the same time, as mentioned, we must create them through green jobs and innovations, considering both the sex and the environment. A respectable president. I can't wait for us to get the case into the General and Education Committee for discussion, and I hope we can get a good grip on the situation, so we can figure it out so that we can be proud.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u31	Mr. President. First, I'd like to welcome the proposal that has been presented here for the implementation of a non-inferiority programme for 2020/20/20233. How important it is that we have a plan and some view of what we would like to do! This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. The prime minister to the issue of equality is very thoughtful of her, and she accepted some of the issues of equality when the current government became a reality. It may be worse that you seem to be in this strategy, i.e. that you allow yourself to be skeptical about what is said to be being done. Then, mostly, I look at the figures of a four - year job, a quarter of a million. K. In an equal account fund, 10 million. K. 1 million. K. in four years for the instruction of an equal agent. You can only carry on with that, equal to equal to 3 billion people. K. for four years. Of course, things don't come through with a few crowns, but we do know that if you are going to have any projects, if you are to undergo serious surgery, if you are to go to an analysis, research and the like, you need to follow a certain financial process. I'm worried about this, I think we can handle it. The General and Education Committee must go seriously into these numbers and see what's behind them. How are these figures found? Who's going? Is there something wrong with them? Because time isn't too long, I'm not going to go into exactly this, but I think that's why. This must be done by members of the General and Education Committee. Then I will look at the tomb of my birth. This will be considered in particular in this equal plan. Of course, we in the United States support it, and we rejoice that it will begin to delay the prolongation of the birthworm, and it will end up in the last government in which it was located, during the difficult 2009 2009,2013, that the birthworm would be extended to 12 months. It was approved, but the 2013, the 2013 government, the independent party government, and the forwarding forces, even though the nation's vessel had gone straight. With regard to the primary part of my life, I agree with what has been shown to be the main groups that are not in the main area, the groups where there are not two parents in similar homes, and therefore can share similar maternity, have five months each, and then divide between two months. We also need to look at the groups in which one person is in a very bad position, possibly only has birth strength that makes the family's financial situation go completely upside down during the five months that the person is supposed to take a birthworm too. We have to watch them as there are not two parents because their parents'children are inferior to the children of parents who live together. It is totally unacceptable in today's Iceland society that we discriminate against children by whether we live together or not. And they are also parents whose circumstances simply do not allow them to share maternity leave with the other person. This is taken into account in maternity laws, where a person is unable to perform his parental duties at all and is also taken into account by those who are in a state of liberation, such as prisoners, but there is no consideration for those who have a child with foreign persons who are not allowed to live in Iceland to be with their children. That, in my opinion, is unacceptable. We need to ensure the equality of all children in Iceland. On page 18. 4 is about the same pay and pay standard, and I want to draw attention to the comments of ASI, BSRB, and the Union of Iceland. In the Management Board's Management Board on the implementation of certifying and professional values, representatives from the Ministry of Presidency, pro-adversion and innovation, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Espionage Office, are completely forgotten to enter this group of labor movement agents and professional life. This has been very critical, and I hope that members of Congress will be at ease. That's what a top-of-the-art Board of Education has in mind. I welcome what we read in the chapter on men and #metoo. It's extremely important to work on the awareness of the responsibility and role of men in the matter of #methoo, but I draw attention to the fact that this is financed in a budget. Then again, I ask, " How do I gain money? ' An equal office should handle this, but has she been given more money to care for it? It is not enough to impose all the projects on the institutions, but it is then a requirement for them to perform either a task that is badly carried out or to discard other necessary tasks. A general assembly should be aware of this. I also call attention to sexual, sexual, sexual, and the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. It is, of course, the European Council's agreement on prevention and the battle against violence against women and domestic violence, a huge deal from 2011. We must not ignore the fact that all genders have to endure violence. We must allow other genders to enter that discussion. Hence, it is also important in such cards that we send out an equal plan that we recognize that all genders are subject to violence, and we need to protect them all. There are two more points I want to cover, I'm going to go fast. As for section 24 of the equal sexual opportunities in international trading, I think it would be clever for the government to start at home, but an example of a leaning there was e.g. at a business meeting held with the vice president of the United States, Mike Pence, at the beginning of the month. There were a handmade seven commissions by the government where two women and five men were located. I don't think that's a very good look for a Icelandic business life in international commerce. We need to watch this. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that I find it very important that when Prime Minister talks for equality, she talks for everyone's equality. The right to equal positions and equal rights of women and men is a good price, but I challenge the government to expand their rights to all, equal to the poor and the rich, equal between the disabled and the French, domestic children and foreign. Like what? paritaprevir The test of Þóra's Árnadóttir, who spoke of just before, is obvious that women are growing greatly in the ranks of those who are in the workplace and of those who are about to go into disability. This is because there is no equal between unions in Iceland in the labour market. It's got women leanings. We need to view equality in a larger context. Or else I will welcome this suggestion and, of course, will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for contributions to implementation programmes in equals for 2020/20023. I think it's important that we have this plan. Although we are making great progress in all international comparisons, it is not possible to put this on the shelf and say, "It is here. ' We need precise measures, as presented above, so that we can be even more effective and maintain what we have. The plan has been handled well, but I've marked a few things that I especially love. I'll start with target number six. 10 on equality in corporate management. I'm very pleased that it says here that there will be an evaluation of the protocols of gender percentages in corporate management and the private partner too. This change includes the provision of equality in the management of an enterprise, so if there are five executives, at least two to be of each sex. In this case, we are usually thinking it, so it takes two women. Sadly, the men have generally made these governments. Unfortunately, all evidence suggests that this aim of the law has not been reached, so I am one of the senders in cooperation with the bill. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir to add some repairs so that you can respond. As we have only considered, it appears that there is no special follow-up for the submission of annual accounts, to form annual accounts, to make any changes, and to whether the law is being followed. I'm glad that this is especially the case. I think and I'm pretty much convinced that the birthworm is our biggest equal case. The steps we took at the time were exemplary, and I think that we have been very effective in doing so. I'm sorry that after a crash, the roof had to be dropped considerably, and we saw the direct effects of fathers less during pregnancy. Now that we have been able to raise the roof again, it is our government's goal to extend the most important form of birth. At the same time, I reiterate that the roof is in the right place in this regard to encourage both parents, both mother and father, or mother, to take a birthmark. I'd also like to mention point No. 14 on equality within the police, which I think is very important. In recent years, we have seen success in that regard, and that is important. It is not just that we want to secure and contribute to the equal opportunity of women and men to a career in this class, as it stands at this point, but perhaps most important for those who need the services of police that there are members of both sexes. It is an equal plan in a broad context, and it is not just about women's rights and where to get women involved, but especially on academic equality and the need to increase the number of new students in primary education, especially the number of men. We look at the two ways in which equality laws work. Sometimes it is spoken of as a law for women to find out that they didn't have an opportunity, but it really is about the importance of both sexes, and all the sexes, if it's changing, their jobs like this. As a result, we have had work assignments about men and equality and methodology in relation to #meto and the barbershop convention, which is actually our export. I always like to mention that when I meet foreign senators and receive them, they ask about their equality issues. Clearly, there we have much to offer and to apply it in our foreign policy as well as in our developing cooperation. This is what I wanted to mention, which is very good in this program. Then there's one thing I can say. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to discuss. Here's point No. 20 About men and health care, and I agree with everything there is, but I think only about women and health. I find it tremendous after my work in the team for an increase in prosperity and quality of life that we realize that Icelandic women live almost long, that is not quite so much as we have a long life span, longer than the men, but when it comes to talking about life in good health, women can expect to live well for 66.2 years in Iceland than men for 71.5 years. Of course, I don't want to reduce men's health, but I find this to be a tremendous blow to me. After examining the numbers, the women have usually had a little less than the men with good health, but the gender has observed something that happens in 2009, so the lines go in different directions. So it could be said that since 2009 men worked three and a half years in good health, while women lost two years. I find this very interesting and something that we have to look at. We've been over this, and I know it's the highest. The minister of health has discussed it a great deal, and we have dealt with this in the matter of sexual abuse, their treatment, and the postproduction, which is a question I find at least. not answered. What Is the Cause? We were discussing a synonym's odor proposal to examine the tissue in particular and to provide rehabilitation. We know that typhus is a disease that affects women rather than men, although both sexes. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned earlier that women in certain professions have rather disability. I think we need to take a look at this, and I encourage the committee to know if we even need a point on these matters. Otherwise, I just thank you for the good plan I hope to go through the council. I also hope the committee uses the opportunity to review all these factors. We talk about men speaking for equality, as is the HeForshe campaign, and I'd like to commend them. Einarsson The speakers who have so far addressed this fine plan have been women. I can see why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is entering the hall, and I suppose he is going to address this important issue because both genders are here to discuss it. This is not a woman's personal matter at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u33	Mr. President. I'm not gonna keep this far. I thank the senator for pointing out the complexity of the gender dimension in the case of health and quality of life, life expectancy and all that we're dealing with in the General Information and Education Committee. In the community, a recent debate on the consequences of preeclampsia has been underestimated, and women may not even be aware of the risks of preeclampsia, for example. heart problems. This shows how important it is always to wear the glasses on our nose when examining our systems, especially in the health system where the sex years of life differ when it comes to diseases that afflict them. If we look at a list of mortalitys, men are much more likely to die in younger stages than women, where suicides and accidents occur. Women are much more likely to die from tumours than men from heart disease. This is all something we need to analyze and have not done well until the last few years. I take my heart to the senator's challenge to us on the General and Education Committee, and I can promise her that this will be checked into the basement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, taking his heart into what he said. He mentioned preeclampsia, but there has also been a lot of discussions about hormonal contraceptives and the potential long-term effects of theirs. It seems that gender differs from their circumstances, so there must be only a different way of looking at the delicate service available to health care. Still, it is absolutely shocking that women seem not to have been dealt with as well in the health system as men. I'm not necessarily talking about Iceland, I don't know if we have any readings here, but it's shocking when you see numbers from abroad, e.g. that when an ambulance is called for to get into an emergency room, it often takes longer for women. It's in countries that are not where we are on equal terms, but there's clues, and we should look to them. Just like what? A senator came along is a life span that is different and certain factors that we should look to, such as, for example, in particular. with young men. We are also doing the same thing, but at the same time, we see that middle - aged women are increasing in energy or with diseases that some may want to avoid being life - style - style - related or over - stress or other factors, and we obviously need to examine them more fully and can react.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u35	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for putting the matter before the council. The importance of such a plan on equality cannot be minimized. How vital it is that we continue to work progressively to strengthen and strengthen ourselves in all aspects of equality! There are many positive things in this program that are worth celebrating. In particular, I find it important to mention the great importance here on extorting sexual violence, which is still too extensive and ongoing in Icelandic society. Sadly, we find ourselves in an international comparison. This is a problem in our society that we must at all times work to root out with all the counsel we have, instruction, and action. It is also very enjoyable to see the emphasis on the #methoo speech and the actions needed to follow the important revolution there and make sure that there is no setback in it, as we hear so much in today's discussion that there is a danger. I'm especially happy that these two things are highly emphasised. Even though all of us here know that it is more important for women than for men in the general social rights talk, we should not forget that there are factors in which we need to look after men. It is a pleasure to see regarding a large drop from high school boys taking steps to cope with the crisis. Today, there is a very serious reality that boys are far less likely to get out of school, with serious consequences for their lives and future quality of life. Also, I can't let go of the mention and express the satisfaction of continuing the vital task of promoting the participation of men in the equality talk. It's not just women's business, it's all our business, we're all supposed to get along on the equality issues. We must root out the thinking that I often feel is so dominant, that men view equality as a threat to their existence or existence, that, for example, when faced with a trial. The equal share of women in the labour market is somehow directed against men. It is not the case, and we all enjoy quality of life and better society that the workforce is more righteous and better in this regard. It's a cause for rejoicing, and I think it's very important to get men much more involved in the equal talk. It's still endemic when you get to a meeting where you're discussing equality that your sex ratio is 90/10, even at best. This is not good enough, for we men also need to participate in this discussion and do our part. In some matters such as the obvious, the discussion of sexual violence and the discussion about #methoo, we know that men are in the vast majority of the bacteria in the world and that it is our responsibility to eliminate the culture that creates that environment. It is absolutely essential that men shoulder responsibility and share wholeheartedly in this discussion. There are two things I would like to be critical of, and I hope the committee will take into consideration further. I think there's a lot in the focus of this equality strategy a bit systematic, turning towards the administration and that the focus is on it, if you could say so. I'm not minimizing the importance of looking inwardly, it's just so important that we put an equal plan into society all. In order to be reasonable, there are a number of projects in the program, but it is interesting that most of them are financial and are known that we have major problems in the community that need to be addressed and will be very expensive to eliminate, although there are certainly costs to other Yankees at the council but that are due to this program. There I look at something more than that. We have enjoyed the privilege of being on a global level for many years in international comparative surveys. I feel that the objective of such an equal plan should be the way we will remain there. How are we going to ensure that Iceland will remain in charge of equality? Since it should always be our pride that we are there, we are not afraid to follow new paths, try new solutions to further success. What I miss most in this program is about the job market. I find the section on job equality a little poor, and there's two especially. It is a ongoing problem that we have a high standard of pay through a sex - trade labour market. It is a fact, we do not know the full scope of our lack of intelligence, but we see in our hand that large groups of women, such as carers and teachers, simply do not enjoy their education in pay benefits in any way compared to long-school male classes, or male class classes, we can say, as such. In real life. There I would like to see more clear emphasis and that there will be ambitions at dealing with the problems. The main factor that draws us down in international comparison is that we have a sexier labour market than other North countries, here's a big difference in pay. Second, our roof of glass is more than the glass roof in our neighboring countries. We have a far less stable position in comparison when it comes to the proportion of women in intermediate positions and high management positions and we have not systematically addressed that problem. We need to find ways to encourage companies to increase their ambitions and to increase their effectiveness. This is not just a matter of sexual pay, but the fact is that sex does not enjoy equal opportunities when it comes to a workforce. It shows us all public numbers. No woman is running a registered company today. I think it's amazing in a society that boasts of a lot of equality, and it has to do with women in all government laws. In fact, the public has done much better than the private sector, and it is good to ask ourselves, " Which place is the private sector so far behind in this regard? ' I'd like to see a way to deal with this plan, much more firmly. That must be the key. If we look at a simple goal, we are saying, "Yes, we must take it firmly on sexual violence, we must take the #methoo speech seriously and show that it is a real will to take action. I'm glad you're clearly seen in this program. But we must also deal with the workforce, the discrepancies, and the fact that women simply do not have equal opportunities for success. I really hope that the emphasis on it will be increased in the management of this very important case. I'm glad the plan has come out, and I hope that it will be further reprobated in the treatment of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for measuring a synonym to the implementation of an equal rights plan for the period 202020/2023. While there are many good things in this program, many would like to see more money on a particular project, and I would also want to see projects that are about to exercise power and to strengthen women of foreign origin, the actions of refugees and refugees, and then a very good point was presented in the Senate case of women and their health. We have seen much, and we need to put forth effort to deal with the tragic reports of women and girls and how women who are often sexually violent or problems related to pregnancy and delivery have an enormous share in the mental and physical health of women and are following them out of their lives and are a major part of the health of women and the health care that we provide at all times. This could be more emphasised, and hopefully it would be. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will establish it in the management of the programme. There are also tremendous needs and good measures, and I would like to mention the response to the #methoo movement which is very good to see in the implementation programme and also the follow-up of Iceland's legislation on the Istanbul Convention, which is one of the most important international agreements in my opinion that we are involved in. I'm not going to give a long talk, but I want to be close to the worldwide work. Here are a few things about it. I have discussed earlier in the conference that in our foreign policy, we should look to Swía's foreign policy because in 2015 they set up a special foreign policy that is feminist and made it very systematically and systematically. It is not always enough to talk about the equality issues in a foreign field and to adopt them, although it is certainly worth a fine pay, but it also requires putting down certain measures. I mention this as an example, and it's not only Sweden that has done this but also Canada who keeps out a very clear foreign policy that enters feminian vision and policy. The project will include a chapter on sex and consumption that is a conscious awakening to the menstrual economy from sex - especially good and related to our climate targets. That's an enormous deal, but it's a very small amount of money in it. Hopefully, this will lead to continued activity. Then there is the involvement of men in equality, the introduction of equality in developing cooperation, which is very good, and the equal opportunity for the gender in international commerce. It could be that my eyes are on Sweden and Canada and that they do better in foreign policy and international work. In fact, our development teamwork should disappear on two issues, equality, and climate. We stress the involvement of men in the equality of our international and foreign policy, but I think we need only an update system, if I may say so, and rather focus on the actions and emphasis we have on peace and the involvement of women in peacekeeping. There are many opportunities when it comes to international cooperation and foreign policy consistent with our policy of equality. What needs to be done is polishing it, making it clearer, and taking certain steps. I'm the highest. The prime minister to see about this, and hopefully the minister of foreign affairs is also listening somewhere. Of course, I hope so. A global and educational committee will also look to it in some way, or we will see it more clearly in 1923, when it will be implemented and reviewed. I think this would be a good example because although Iceland's standards of equality are high, there are many things we can add. It is sometimes very good and fun to be an Icelander in foreign lands, for we are looked upon in Iceland when it comes to equality and reference to standards that measure very well but do not take into consideration other factors, in order to develop sexual abuse, domestic violence, and the treatment of sexual abuse in the justice system. It also points to a control group for pooled improvements in sexual violence and the Ministry that live there, and I hope that we will begin to take action and suggestions to remedy the handling of these cases in the justice and judicial system. The work market and the job life were mentioned earlier, and in the past, we severely violate the standards of public participation in the labour market, but we need to accept when it comes to the judiciary and legal system. I just wanted to mention the international issues in this context and refer to the good policy that can be found in Sweden and Canada's foreign policy. It sets a fine example for us when it comes to using us internationally. As good as the great HeForshe project is, I think we need to develop when it comes to having some work to do or focus. I think it'd be a good one for Iceland, and I think I'd draw attention to it. Of course, it will be good to see this proposal agreed in the chamber and then continue in the equal terms that we will all be supporting here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u37	A respectable president. Short, mostly out of the question. paritaprevir That's a great case for Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. There was a slight complaint about the inactivity of men, so I don't see that it was a problem ever since, but I'm just trying to correct it. I just wanted to say that it's a very good case, and it's supposed to get to a committee in the first place. Lack of interest in first - round participation is certainly not an indication of indifference on the subject. I just want to get the case forward as soon as possible, thank you very much, and look forward to a good consideration in committees so that you can have a good discussion about it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen who have participated in the discussion and have made many good comments. I'd like to make a good remark first. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson's son that this plan is, in some respects, a little more systematic. You're absolutely right. Senator, that is the nature of this strategy as it has developed. It is based on law on equal positions and equal rights of women and men. The work force is based on the ministry's bringing in proposals and projects that make the plan a significant system error. However, this is not all we are doing in equality. There's a lot of other things we're doing out of the frame of this sort. Let me give you one of the fine examples, the #meto convention we had last week. We just decided to keep it, but we could say, she's getting her way into a plan like this. It has a far greater impact than being within the system, being extremely well attended, and having much discussion in society, as the role of the government is also to encourage discussion. I'd like to say first and foremost that this kind of plan will never be an exhaustive document and the nature of a case, it's a significant system down there, I'll accept that criticism. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Víglundsson spoke of a sex - exchange market that is exactly an Icelandic labour market that is quite sexual, and that's why I want to mention that on point 15, under education, there is a particularly talk about sexual selection that I think is the root of a sex - exchange market. These include actions designed to map the sex division in all student groups and the services of the Extension Educational System as well as to examine high school. There I think we can achieve significant results, and not by hand, but by the way, I think it's a big deal of academic presentation. We have made significant progress in promoting the promotion of industrial education simply by further presentation, and this is a project to at least Ten years, as I remember I set out to be Minister of Education and Culture with the Society of Industrial Affairs. This has had a significant impact on the increased student's interest in industry, an interest in a trade - education application. I think the interest was there all the time, but certain aspects of the system put a stone in the street of industry. I believe that there we have been successful with a steady job for quite a while and I think we can do the same thing here. I would also like to mention a section 9 on equality in the labour market, which is also specifically spoken of sexual study and employment selection with the labour market organisation. This is the action related to the campaign, but I agree. A senator's need for much more attention in the equal talk. A few of them. In particular, members of the Parliament discussed foreign policy, and I found that it made me interesting comments that have every reason to continue and discuss specifically with the committee. For more than a decade now, there has been an increasing part of Icelandic foreign policy, and I think that there is a reason to consider whether we can somehow form it as I think it is. Councilmen propose. It was discussed with the plan, and it is in itself true that they do not move about in the schedule. But I'd like to remind you of an equal balance fund that remains considerably large and the million that is spoken of as being added to an equal rights fund are considered in the assessment of the success of the projects that have been done there. There are very many of them, and many of them in recent years have been very interesting to me. The balance fund that has studied 100 million was established by the council, as I did in my speech, and I believe that we need to decide whether or not we want to continue it as a research and project fund in the fields of equality. I believe it is important, however, that we receive this assessment so that the council can take sides in whether we do not want to continue our funds and make changes in them. It was interesting to hear it. Councilmen discuss sex and social security as well as the health of men and women. Hv. paritaprevir A very interesting report in their speech on the growth of micro-energy donors, sex ratios, and how this increase has been applied was referred to by the Steinunn Árnadóttir Yearnydotir. This needs to be discussed much better and is certainly a project that I feel is called for a more extensive discussion in the Senate Hall, for it is also related to the health of many men and women. Senators came in. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir discussed that this plan should not be centered solely on male and female equality. Of course, the plan is based on law, and it's about equal positions and the rights of women and men. This morning the first meeting of total reexamination of equality began. One of the issues to be discussed is the expansion of the equality concept, whether we want to expand these laws or continue to see them as law on equal positions and equal rights of women and men, in view of the fact that we now have other lawlines for equal treatment and employment status both in the labour market and outside the labour market taking on these expansion factors. That discussion, I think, will call for depth. We are going to emphasize this work, the goal is to revise the law on the next council, and the goal is to call as many people as possible to the table in that subject. I think that would be interesting for a reason. The General and Education Committee to discuss this on the Committee with representatives of the Ministry of Presidency who direct the overall review at some point, either in connection with a discussion on this matter or later in the winter. At the same time, it is important to call for viewpoints from the council to follow. The equality of corporate administration was mentioned, as was the case in management groups. It's been a long time since sexuality laws were passed in corporate governments. They have not been followed, as some have. Councilmen mentioned. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson talked about both the highest rulers and the next song in the management groups of companies. There we can certainly do better, and hopes were raised when the law was passed on sexuality in corporate governments that it would influence government groups. That law has not been followed. We've been working on a bill here, like what? The senators mentioned, about the penalties of violations of that law, and I feel that we must discuss it openly. It is unacceptable that the law is not being followed. I believe that the only reason we don't see any more women as managers and second executives in business must be to some extent associated with the failure to comply with the requirements of these laws. I think that's a big loss for an Icelandic career. And then I thought it was very good what was discussed that the equality talk was not directed against men, for it certainly does not. Our interesting experience with the birth serpent, which I referred to in my review speech, shows that Icelandic fathers are more positive than other fathers in the North countries in regard to the prolongation of birthworm. They enjoy this kind of upbringing, at least It's better than fathers in any other country in the North. I feel that the law has influenced values as well as a reminder that laws designed to increase sexual equality have given men just like women an opportunity, just in other areas, and have given men more than women a higher quality of life, as well as in other areas. This has led to increasing the company of women, while increasing the share of men in training children. Both would I say is an enormous advantage for both sexes. My time is over, and I appreciate it. The members of the council are very anxious and hoping that the discussion will be good at what is happening. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u39	President wants to announce that yesterday, September 25th, was a 29th case, a law of the law, referred to the environment and transportation committee. However, the case was to be taken to a professional committee, and it has been corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u40	President. I recommend a judicial proposal for a review of the provision of public funds for the quality management of sheep culture. The movers are in addition to me, the rest of the council members of Re-Election. First, I'd like to read the proposal word for word, with president's permission, which is as follows: The General concluded to hide aquaculture and agricultural and resource minister to review the provision of public funds for the quality management of sheep farms, with the objective of its agriculture component being in accordance with law and good administrative practices. The Ministers set new rules for home-land conditions, upset worlds, and responsibly, based on the counseling of land healing on such criteria and ensure that payment will not be given to the manufacturer for failing to meet current criteria. At that work, it will also be ensured that the current agriculture programmes under the quality-controlled sheep production directive will be decomposed and land users will implement new legislations that meet law and new criteria. A review will be completed and a new reference set for January 1 January 2020 Mr. President. This in itself is not a complicated suggestion. However, it is about important factors such as improved land use as part of climate - related activities. It is also about our treatment of taxpayers and about the rights of consumers to identify the product available to them. It is about the fairness of the competitiveness of much more of the sheep's prayers that work hard to handle matters properly. Finally, the proposal for good and proper government practices is all about it. Ólafur Arnaldur, professor at the National Farming University of Iceland, whose title is false: Severe slants on the implementation of the agricultural component of sheep culture and came out during the summer, are overstepping the habit that can be found in our new country in sheep farms. According to the data presented in the report - and this was not without conflict for the authors, and I am better able to follow - it is estimated that 10◯20% of the budget will be operating in areas where the state and nature of ecosystems do not meet criteria set in the implementation of existing agricultural legislation. Thus, those of those possessing it have received payment from a treasure that is not in harmony with the laws set out there. One objective of the government's action programme on climate is to improve land use, where emissions will be reduced. It shows that carbon neutralisation will be achieved only with a large increase in carbon binding in vegetation and soil and less land use emissions. In the body of Congress that I recommend here, the government is assigned to correct a certain habit that has been pointed out and to make long-term improvements in the implementation of the agricultural element of sheep breeding's quality management. Total support for sheep farming in 2019 under a sheep's contract is less than 4.9 billion, of which quality management is nearly 1.7 billion. The national component of the quality management of sheep farms is the part of the farm pay that is tied to specific criteria for the state and land management of the country. This conjugal element was put on to deal with the poor ecosystems and a lot of soil erosions in the country all in accordance with the mapping of the Research Institute for Agriculture and Agriculture. During the years since the agriculture component was introduced into the agricultural support system - that is over a decade ago - no manufacturer has been denied validation of land use and has not been refused to meet the standards for sustainable land use. This would certainly be a cause for joy if it were not so that in recent years an important challenge has been pointed out in the implementation of these estimates. Agri-environment schemes and the Environmental and Resource Ministry have shown that the standards and implementation of the Member States' components of quality management fail to meet professional views. These communications have recently been attributed to the above - mentioned publication Ólafur Arnaldur, which covered the understatements of the project. It's even coming. to indicate that there is a great lack of modern knowledge in the field of environ ment, that standards used are not a professional opinion, that agriculture programmes have been adopted, although it is clear that land quality does not meet the minimum limit of contract time and is, in fact, far from doing so. It is estimated that in areas where the state and nature of ecosystems do not meet the criteria set in relation to the implementation of existing agricultural legislation, the total budget of the budget will be 10◯20% of the budget. Thus, those possessing these items have received financial payments, even though they do not meet the necessary requirements in accordance with legal requirements. It has also been noted that the criteria used do not meet normal requirements, they are not recognized by land healing, and they may be in opposition to the conditions of farming, land healing, and the laws of nature protection. The General shall ensure that nature is unsuspectable and sheep farming is not practiced in areas that are too sensitive to employ responsible and sustainable land use requirements. It also weakens much of the competitiveness of much of the sheepfold that meets all requirements and follows the highest land use criteria, with relative cost and mismanagement that equal strength is paid to those who do not meet basic conditions. At the same time, the Witnesses such as this may affect the choice of consumers who want to allow environmental considerations to control their choice of consumption. In fact, it may be reasoned that consumers of wine meat who prefer to buy responsible products for environmental reasons have been deceived. The country has a rich advantage because public funds are only used for sustainable sheep breeding, and they do not follow indiscriminately on the ecology of the land. It is urgent that the members of the Ministers promptly reviewed the quality management component and ensures that the standards of sustainable agriculture are in accordance with the laws and good management practices and that they are followed according to normal requirements, in the opinion of land healing. Mr. President. I strongly assume that Ólafur's report and the data he acquired under strict pressure are considered by environmental and agricultural advisers in connection with a cooperation project they presented last January to sheep penscing about climate-based agriculture. According to the news, the project would be developed during the year and carried out by the legislature centre for agriculture in cooperation with land healing, forestry, and sheep farmers. This, in turn, is the subject of the second and second research - followed by improvements - how difficult it was to collect data on these issues. This is certainly not in the spirit of a transparent government government when it comes to handling public funds. These difficulties led to the need for a trial by the Food Agency to the decision-making committee. The decision was in favour of Ólafur Arnalds, followed by a wide range of data on the treatment of the country. According to Ólafur's report and the subsequent report, review of the evidence revealed that many things have gone wrong and that there is a need to account for the development and status of these cases in a public field. Ólafur makes all of this very detailed in the publication that I have referred to and under the false: Serious nuances in the implementation of a principle of quality management of sheep farms. However, it is proper and important to reiterate here what must be said in Ólafur that there are only about 3% of agriculture and about 15% of sheep'livestock. Mr. President. The bad situation of Iceland's ecosystems and soil erosion is among the major environmental problems of countries and nations. The sheepfolds are directed through a special payment system where parts of the funding depend on production to meet certain standards of quality. These include requirements for the environmental impact of sheep bait, the production of the product meets the standards for sustainableity and the state of the land to be applied. However, the conclusion seems to be that the public funds - part of these funding - are being used to support irresponsible land use, since standards are not met by experts and that they improve their criteria are controversial. In the end, the National Protection and Nature Organization for Iceland has issued a formal indication to State Review on the provision of public funds in relation to the quality management of sheep farms, where it is said that there is a doubt about the implementation of laws and requirements for legitimate administrative practices. In the indication, the matter is thoroughly to be broken down, and in the final words, it says that in view of what has been reported on the project, the organization requires that the agriculture component of the quality management be reduced to the present image and legitimate bodies be committed to making new rules. Remuneration by the quality management part of the government and farmers to the manufacturer, who will not meet current standards and will not do at the time of the contract of the current agricultural project, will be halted, as such provision does not meet law, not rules and no requirements for good administrative practices. The proposal I recommend here is that the General shall hide the marine eco-efficiency and agriculture minister and resource secretary to revise this provision of the PES for the sheep culture with regard to this and with the objective that its agriculture factor conforms to the law and good administrative practices. I will proceed by requesting that the case be referred to a judicial committee on the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u41	A respectable president. I come up here to make some comments to this council resolution that I find quite remarkable. I think it's kind of a quest for farmers, their business, and the work they've done as guardians of a country. I feel that this case is a bit of a lack of knowledge about it. When the quality management system was introduced into agriculture and sheep farms, the meaning was that it would be mapd according to land use. This was not done because other projects were started on land transplants that farmers have been up to for decades in cooperation with land healing. Often, land healing has failed in the role it has been assigned to do. Let me mention some of the projects that farmers have been doing in terms of land healing. These include Farmers'healing, the agricultural components of quality management, which have achieved remarkable achievements in the recovery of biomass and pastures. The agricultural work of farmers who have been committed to such projects and who have worked hard to improve land and to improve the future has not yet been established. Some 600 farmers are participants in the Bjords'project, and some 25 land reforms are in parallel because of the quality management of sheep farms. In many cases, those responsible for land healing have contributed to man and instrument at their own expense for the projects, making up considerable amounts of money. In turn, land transplants have required fertilizer and seeds for projects where this has been applied. Teamwork on this project has yielded rich fruitage. It is true that farmers do not benefit from walking on land's goods. On the contrary, their advantage is to improve land and land quality. It's just part of their operation. A wise use of this will improve the country's agriculture. Farmers are increasingly aware of improved farming practices and have worked to improve agriculture in line with counseling land healing in areas where necessary. However, it has to be said that because of the lack of land healing, land transplants carried out their original role, which was making up land and restoring biomass. The sense of reason is that instead of outright threats to farmers, the land transplants cry out that it expands and more trusts in the work being done together, we have the basis to build for the future. Another project I would like to mention is that of Graind. Because a project was set up in the time of the end. Agricultural minister of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. It was the initiative of the Landsam of Sheep. When the livestock deal was signed 2016, there were 300 million. K. has a 10-year project to monitor and assess the state of plant and soil resources in Iceland. The purpose is included. to supply more scientific support under control with the idea that sheep farmers would become self-sustained for the future. It is in the days of a minister who is one of the couriers of this synonym. This project has been carried out since then, and monitoring has been started during those years, 2017,2019, on ecosystems status and development that began in the summer. Early attention was first given to monitoring rights and uncivilized new countries. The results of the alarm will be used to develop sustainable references but the available knowledge will also be new and increased to the necessary knowledge through research. These and others are all projects that will help to heal the country, to use the wise use of pasture land, and other resources that are all about the purpose of this conjugal proposal - but the natural goal of the Parliamentary arrangement is to make farmers less productive and to minimize their work on land healing over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u42	Mr. President. It is a search for farmers, however. Senator. Now it was made clear in my case that this suggestion had not been made in a void. So I ask. The senator's contribution is clear. A senator and his party in climate action to accuse Iceland's Marine Health Organization and National Protection - as well as the rest of the Council - of prayer efforts by pointing out what has been wrong in these matters and suggesting that the General Assembly and then appropriate ministers offer proposals for improvement? Is that so? On the one hand, I'd like to come into it for a reason. A senator mentioned, which is certainly a good step to strengthen the foundation that needs to be strengthened in terms of land use. It is absurd, however, that changes in the system cannot be made until all that information is available. Although GróLind will add a great deal of information on land use and land conditions, the big picture of the current application situation is just quite known and has been since the successful report was released in 1997. Work can be started immediately upon reviewing the quality management component as presented here. And finally this: I take my heart to what is presented in the matter of each. A senator that there is probably no class here that will benefit more fully from land use being directed in both good and responsible ways. No class other than farmers. On the other hand, we clearly agree on how this will be done, and I expect it to call for further discussion here at the Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before the counter, but I ask back, " Why is beinglittled the work being done and the activities being carried out? ' Counts 'em out. A senator does not see that this project will result in achieving the goals presented in this synonym? What matters, and what I've been pointing out, is that I think it's much better to draw out what's been done well than to minimize it. Farmers certainly have all the benefits - but also all of us, consumers. Government climate goals are totally in harmony with this. So I think there's a lot of projects that you can get up and work on when it comes to these goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u44	President. I appreciate the answer. I will cut down in the same knees: a mission is a great word. It was held in the talk seat from the oar. A senator and I prayed. The Senator of the matter, and I ask again: Are the members, the members of the Council, the National Refiners, the National Protection Association of Iceland, National Protection, and most likely those who agree on the need to be reformed, on the other hand. A candidate for the advance party for sheepfolds? That word was quoted in the symposium from below. Senator. And then this: In what world do members of Congress feel that suggestions for improvement are nothing more than a game to criticize or tear down? These are suggestions for improvement of the condition that has been repeatedly suggested by professionals that it is not well. These are suggestions for improvement. Pointing out this cannot go against the interests of farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u45	A respectable president. A search for farmers. I call it a time to minimize the current activities and activities that would work better on these goals. I'm talking about these projects being done in cooperation with land healing. Is land healing minimizing the project done by farmers? [[Up front.]] We are talking about the reduction in sheep in a number of decades as well. Why do you think that is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u46	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u47	That's even. This is why. I'm not gonna have a conversation with you, I'm sorry. I think we can quite succeed in the work that, for example, is possible. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister in his day, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, set out and worked well that, along with many others, the same conclusion as this synopsis proposal does. But we're talking about cutting down the quality control burden is reducing the survival of farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u48	No. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u49	I'm not having a conversation with you, I'm sorry, I'm here on a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u50	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to thank the highest. Social and child-friendly minister for participating in a discussion about in my opinion of an extremely important subject, you see the potential for working in people over middle age. Although unemployment has not been highly regarded in recent years, there is strong evidence that there is a number of unemployed offenders. I'm referring to a long - term lack of work, and to which one is the most suffering. Thus, on the website of the employment agency, you can find the latest numbers from last year, showing that older age groups among the unemployed are longer out of work than younger ones. This is true both of women and of men, as is true whether the capital area or the region is viewed, so the problem exists regardless of both factors. What does this say about the workforce? Is there an age in the labour market here? Is it possible for the Icelandic job drivers to be older when it comes to recruiting? People who lose their jobs by or after 50 years of age may find it difficult to get a job again. Are these people out of business? Do we have people set up for the last year of their working life? Many people of this age are well educated, and more important, they have earned valuable experience that should be desirable and useful. There are many employers who have experience with older employees that they are often the most reliable employees in each workplace if they are present and punctual. Not getting a job is a sign of a lot of waste in society, and that's too bad. In the power of experience, the value of all gain is being wasted. When it comes to teaching, it is not easy to get a job. The average age in this country has increased by five years since the mid - 1980's, about four years in women, and six years in men. This has led to an intense discussion of the need to bring up retirement years and also to make people, such as making Kingdom employees, able to work longer than 70 years ago. This is a matter of concern, and when this is taken into consideration, it is a problem that must also be solved. Mr. President. What can be done? I believe that those who advertise for staff are obliged to do so, although only to respond to the received applications. All too many of the people I have discussed this matter are complaining that they are not answered and that they are not respected. Then there are interviews. More often, employers would have to give middle - aged people the opportunity to prove themselves by interviewing them. If so, you may find that just like the younger ones, you have much to bear. Could it be a solution to laying down certain obligations on the State in these matters, to put down an older part in the spirit of sexuality, or to cancel the identification number in applications in order to prevent them being thrown into the trash at the start? Would it be a solution to the use of unemployment benefits to pay a portion of pay for those who are less experienced in these respects? Of course, increasing education is a matter, increasing the skills of these people, and making it easier for them to grow in education, but as much as it is necessary to increase knowledge in the community of the professional skills of older employees. Is justice involved that unemployment rates are not to the extent related to the length of pay paid by the employee? Should employees who have worked for decades not have more room than those who may have worked for a few years? I want to say here that today I have a petition for a written answer to the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs for the age of the people hired for the State in the past few years and the answer to that inquiry might reveal how the state stands against the group that we are here to address. Mr. President. We need to take up the discussion about this needs issue that I know is burning on very many people in the community. Here we see the undesirable situation of this work force at a job market that needs to be followed. Officials who are often large employers may take the initiative to be exemplary in this regard. I look forward to the highest point of view. Ministers and other council members on this subject and especially on solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for recording this case. I think it's good to discuss it here because it's certainly urgent and something that needs political discussion. Perhaps before we discuss the questions the senator raised in the discussion to reflect on the situation as it is at the labour market today, whether it is not all well looked for in the coming years and decades, with the rapid changes in the economy due to the fourth industrial revolution, that group will be particularly sensitive to these changes. Perhaps we need to reexamine our whole system a little bit when considering that people are training their entire life for change. I'm slightly afraid that the group we're discussing will be weaker than the rapid changes anticipated in the coming decades. In his talk, the senator wondered if the job life really doesn't need these employees. The guy standing here agrees completely with me, I guess. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason when he tells us that we do not agree that the workforce does not need these people. The labour market needs variety, we need to ensure the diversity of the workforce, but now it's the general labour market that we don't direct it directly. There are no direct motivations when it comes to groups in a job market, especially when it comes to age. It's just not built into our system. It's a free labour market, it's a free company and there's no direct motivation. On the other hand, when it comes to gender equality, we are putting in as much pay as that, and we may well wonder if we do not have to look at the future certain other aspects of a workforce that pertains to them. The senator then asks us what we can discern about the situation. The government has a job at the Ministry of Economic Affairs in cooperation with the Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Presidency, which is able to build up more parts of the work and jobs for people with limited skills within the public system. The public system may not be more flexible than the general market when it comes to this, and that is what we want to talk about, and it is what the Ministry Department's work aims to do, how to ensure more varied jobs in the public so that the public market can set a good example in this regard. The Senator mentioned that there are a number of courses and more for this group, but we also carry on working with a bill being announced at this council, and although it does not directly address this group, changing the rehabilitation system through the induction of operations and rehabilitation funds. All the services needed to build up around them are designed in part to help people build up when they fall out of a workforce in some way and to use them at the same time. A respectable president. I think it is also important to take the entire workforce discussion as well. A senator came in. As I look at the work market, I have felt that social awareness of both the general and the public labour market has become less common. I remember when I was a young boy and went to a company in my home where everyone was committed to work. It was the job of society to hold all the citizens and all the people. Of course, in recent decades the workforce, which has increased, may well affect people and perhaps people who should, especially, those who are older than mid - life. I think the actions we offer in this subject are positive, but we need to look to the future in this regard and maybe we need to take on something far more radical than we've been discussing in the political field so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u52	Mr. President. In the older generations of this land, there is vast wealth. This is the generation that actually built up Iceland and that we younger are in a deep debt of gratitude to it. Our human nature is very important to us, and it is neither good economics nor justice to support itself with these people and their experience. The system must not be so built up that it punishes people for their work by failing or other means puts a stone in its path. In the next 25 years, the number of senior citizens will double in this country. Large generations of Icelanders will soon fall into retirement years, and as a result, we need to think again. The world's amulet is turning around. With these and other products, the password is your choice. People should have much more choice of when to retire. Let us allow people to control it to a far greater extent than is currently being done, but people in general are seeing the greatest experts in their own lives. Mr. President. I also find the idea of giving people more choices as to when they take a pension. It would be possible to imagine taking a temporary break in jobs and a middle - aged pension industry, even rather young, e.g. when your health is very good or other circumstances require it. Then they would take the same people their general pension later than they are now. Mr. President. We need to be reasonable, reasonable, and flexible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for raising this subject in the Assembly Hall. I think this is a subject worth discussing, both here and anywhere else in society. I have to admit, however, that I think that the key to improving the situation in this respect is mental change rather than some action. I don't believe in authority or any of the kind of action that involves obligation or such. I think that the very point of this is that those who make decisions about recruitment or who have human resources to do in companies and institutions look at the very part of which all the speakers have mentioned, that in people who are in middle age or who have vast experiences that can be used in so many areas, of course, both professional knowledge and experience, but also experiences that can be used in so many fields and so many jobs. I think that change of mind may be the key to having employees, managers, managers, or executives value with fairness the experience of people in middle age or older who are open to the possibilities of being associated with people with many experiences of experience. Then there are other factors, such as the possibility of re-education and the likes of reflection, that need to be considered also because the work market is changing so that people in general generally stay less in each job or in each field than may have been common in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u54	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank you for this discussion. Hv. 8th yrs In his opening talk, Karl Gauti Hjaltason asked if it was a matter of age when it was time for people to work. I believe the answer to that is definitely yes. I hear it from everyone over 50, I think I can claim, who apply to work that they recognize what is sometimes called social security. Hv. A senator also asked if some date should be put in place. In general, I don't approve of such eaters unless they're temporary and experimental. Also asked why. A senator if it would be right to cancel the identification number from applications, and I think it should be done. I've noticed in Iceland that when people apply for a job, they often bring a picture with them. This is not necessarily appreciated by larger communities, where people's looks are more broad and similar. It is not cool to have a picture with fear that it will have an unusual effect on whether the person is invited for an interview. I don't see any significant reason for putting a social security number in applications if I'm supposed to say exactly what it is. I don't know what language it might be possible to make a difference unless people decide to make decisions from her that I consider to be both unnecessary and morally questionable or just wrong. Unless, of course, the job was to protect some particular age group, something like that. On the other hand, I think so. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, says that what needs primarily to be needed is a change of attitude toward prejudice in general. In our modern society, we have become a bit accustomed to speaking openly and deeply about prejudice, such as. Women or homosexuals or any particular group. What I think needs to happen is that we need to be on guard against prejudice in general. And by the way, prejudice isn't something that a person is or isn't, we're all prejudiced. Human beings are prejudiced. They must be, for they cannot make every decision in life based on all the scientific evidence and logic that are relevant, so we need to know these things in ourselves and to work hard against them, no matter what kind of prejudice they are about age, race, religion, gender, or whatever else they are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u55	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Sadly, it often wants to be that people who are over a certain age have a very difficult time finding a job in the workplace. I don't know what the reasons for that are, but they may be of different kinds. However, I would like to discuss some of the advantages of promoting the participation of these people in the workforce. Of course, this group of men is the primary source of knowledge and experience. Also, research in the West has shown that older people tend to be more productive at work, even in articles with high workers, such as at grocery stores and restaurants, that older people are active, often have a powerful network that is useful in the workplace, as well as little evidence that people who did not grow up with computers and smartphones cannot present themselves and work with new technologies. The wide variety of variability is to be celebrated, as it is high strength, and in the workplace, it often wants to be the case with employees with a wide range of knowledge, experience, and education for the best. Labour market research has led to this conclusion, and it has suggested that many times and times are the best and most creative working teams, which contain all age groups. It's just as important to the solo friendship. Loneliness in older people can have serious health consequences and, unfortunately, it seems, is increasing among older people here. You see, a job area is not simply an area where creation is valuable. Workplaces also have high social value and play a major part in the social life of many. Therefore, to help older ones get into the job market can not only have a positive effect on the individual who is able to use his power, experience, knowledge, and share in social activities but also may have considerable social benefits. Health systems can save any money, and it would have to be less difficult to deal with loneliness - related health problems. When this group's knowledge and experience become more valuable in society and younger generations, older ones can make a lot of money when they share their knowledge and experience with them, just as the knowledge of young people can be valuable to older ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u56	A respectable president. There's been a long talk about increasing flexibility in the workforce, but it's time for us to change our words and engage in them. We need to make sure that our experience will be new because it is in the interest of individuals, but also in the interests of the whole community, valuable things, and the like. The human race is amazing in all ages, and we should make sure that people have the freedom to choose when they will stop working and how they will do so. We are not meant to push people out of a job market, as the system is now built up. While there is favor in both this body hall and in the workforce in some respects in overcoming the idea, it has not been done enough for years. During our restoration, we want to make sure that people have freedom of choice in all ages. Let us also remember that since 2008 there have been 30,000 new jobs. There's zero in innovation and knowledge. Of course, it affects our ability to provide a sufficient variety of jobs in a job market so that it covers all. We've got to start making a living, including. so that we can cope with the fourth industrial revolution by having a variety of jobs. It also comes from the ability to open up the workforce even more to older people. Then there's another thing I wanted to point out, because I've been in Congress for quite a while, that of the councilmen over 60 years, 14 men and three women. I especially miss women in the council hall with whom I have worked in different categories over the years, women with great experience and great knowledge across classes. I always hate to see them rather than the men go out of Congress, take their bag instead of staying here because there are so many of them who have had and still have business at a council, and I miss them sincerely. [[The president calls.]] I think the political parties must also think their own way when it comes to canceling an invitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u57	V.E.G. President. I thank Karl Gauti Hjaltason for bringing this matter into the program. As a man past middle age who has never lost his job, I have not tested myself to the effect of unemployment on people. Business is not only the acquisition of money, work has great social value, and we are social creatures, whether we like it or not. Business is also something that makes you useful to social and social services. If I speak for myself, it is more necessary for me than before to be useful in our society. Also, the experience that my life has taught me so far benefited from my work, especially at the great General Assembly. A famous man once said: "Don't ask what society can do for you. Instead, say, " What can I do for society? ' People who are older often think a lot of things, but what is the reason why middle - aged people find it harder to find work? I was pointed out, for example. on one point, when working for employment applications, the social security number is often being watched, but in many parts of the country, information on social security or age is not provided by job applications, i.e. The individual is not required for information at the time of age. Interestingly, a quarter of those who have lost their jobs have passed through middle age. Unemployment is dangerous, both mentally and physically. The potential consequences of an increase in the number of unemployed persons older than mid - life are the largest increase in disability - related pensioners, especially women, among those over 50 years of age, 42%. According to the Norwegian study, people older than mid - life have the key knowledge that each workplace needs. [[The president calls.]] It is remembered as a result of illness, the most faithful thing in the workplace, and the most creative of all. How, then, is this development going on? People in their middle age have knowledge and experience that are invaluable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u58	A respectable president. People 50 years of age have special coverage here, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for bringing up these issues. The fact is that the future employment market in Western society is changing, so the 55 - year - old and older group grows three times the younger group. At the same time, age will be much less important than what people know and what they can do. Previously, the working time was linear or three phased. First, people went to study, or not, then they got a job, and then the gold watch. It was relatively well defined. Now the career will be more like a maze. People come and go in and out of a job market. First there is study, work, study, and work, and so on. Age is not everything but knowledge and ability, and the job market must take into account. The process is changing, so that knowledge and ongoing education are more and more important. Access to ongoing education, either for further or less study, is much more important while we are entering the fourth industrial revolution. The group on this page is the group of people who have knowledge and who are stable in the workforce, who give birth to children, and who are freer. Similarly, he has a greater need for flexibility, both during work hours, where people work, and at any time, all that the fourth industrial revolution offers. Jobs without location, a flexible labour market, and a processual access are key elements to be better prepared. Flexibility is important when the end of the work is over. It is, therefore, both the responsibility of individuals and the labour market to train and maintain employment ability to make use of the knowledge that exists in all age groups. Flexibility can be where people work and at what time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u59	A respectable president. I hope that the President and the World of Congress won't take it against me, even if I use this opportunity to do a little poem by my father, Thor Vilhjálmsson. This song is called Hutter. It's like this with President's permission: One day I'll say (young man): How does winter affect you? And the old woman says, I'm just not thinking about it. There's so much left of the summer in me (The old woman says). I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, for calling attention to a growing problem that is a progressive lack of experience and knowledge in middle ages and is for some reason in the position of wanting or changing a job or working area, may be a long time out of work with related anxiety and depression and rejection so that it can become a bad cycle. It has also been observed in employment agencies not to appreciate people's personal experience and how they are useful in managing matters regardless of the degree of testing. Another problem is also created by the bad habits of some professionals, even those of the government, to achieve saving by resigning from the people who have the longest working years. A hard work market is an issue that affects all of us, and we are not to force people to stop working while they still have much to do and want to work, but we are not to keep people working for more or longer than they have a mind of themselves. A flexible labour market is a key factor, especially when we are now seeing that machines will eventually replace human hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u60	A respectable president. I like others to thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for bringing this matter to attention. I have to admit, though, that the first time I read the title, the professional part at 50 years of age and older, I thought we were joking. I thought that the more we were thinking about older people, and in view of the fact that a dictionary defines our middle age as being 45 30-60 years old, our life span is always getting a little dark and weird to think that at the same time we're still dealing with some kind of age, and it's actually starting at mid - age. It's kind of incredible. Other members of the body of elders have pointed out that the solution to this must be change of mind. I think it's clear that the labour market needs to be even more flexible. How sad it is to think that we have lost all part - time employment because of an Icelandic labour market! I was glad to hear it from the highest. Ministers to systematically implement such a procedure, at least in the Council of Management. However, it has nothing to do with being able to find employment at 50 years of age, and I wonder what I have to do with this and whether numbers might be somewhere else abroad. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunnar, pointed to the Maurdarim we are with at the council. When it comes to a few women over 60 years of age, we have quite a few men. In recent decades, we have missed quite a few women, obviously losing knowledge. I wondered when you see such presidents in the United States, who are sort of successful in late careers. Thank you so much for recording this case. [[The president calls.]] It matters. I think we're thinking about change of mind, variety and flexibility in the Icelandic labour market. That must be the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u61	A respectable president. As far as I can see, there are two factors mentioned by other members of the council. On the one hand, there is a change of mind. I think it needs to come to both employers and candidates because there is a difference between generations in how they see that you are going to apply for work. I have a lot of strange interests, as my wife might tell us, but one of them is to help other people apply for work. It's a special hobby, I take time to help people I don't necessarily know that much, and I notice them over and over again, people magnifying them, and often applying at one place at once, possibly two places at once. My wisdom is that you apply for ten jobs a day until you have a job. It's my minimum, I'd say 20, but I know that people in general don't. It does not in general have the strength to do so. It takes many nos, and especially not just for middle - aged people. It's rather typical not to get an answer to a job application, unfortunately. Away from the changes in thinking that must take place in society, there are certain things that we could do to make both work and to make work, e.g. to a streamlined rule of action in the face of independent employment. People at 50 years of age have an enormous experience that they can use in their own business, but they may be important to them, in part, because of the fact that there is no terrible complexity - another thing I also know from my personal experience - it is complicated enough that a person who is not interested in it can easily impress them. I think that we should consider using modern technology much more to make it very simple for an individual in any industry that has nothing to do with computers and writing skills, to start own business, to earn all his commitments, and to take advantage of all the opportunities that it can follow. When you're your own boss, there's a lot of freedom that I think is desirable, actually at any age, but maybe especially at middle age. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u62	A respectable president. Thank you for your time. I wondered if there is any official policy regarding the appearance of data in public companies, such as Iceland recently, about how it is involved in dating, whether or not something is looked to at the age of people at the time of layoffs. I think it is very important to look to the human resources of people who have gained knowledge and experience and who, in most cases, have completed their duties if applicable, are more free by them at a job market and on their own terms. It has been observed here, and I agree that a group of staff 50 years of age and older is very good and has a lot of maturity, is a strong labor force. I also think it is very important that people of all ages have good access to professional education and re-education and thus can pursue an education along the line of work to strengthen themselves in their work or to change their jobs. If it comes to receiving enlightenment, it can educate itself rapidly and well to get back into the job market. I feel that it is well worth what one executive referred to, trying to give older people the opportunity to get into a job interview. I think it is very important for people with a lot of experience and knowledge of a job market to get to talk their language directly to the professional driver and thus get into the position to get a job. As I say, people of this age are very manned, and the business is certainly to be used because the workforce is to reflect variety, even in people's age. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u63	Mr. President. I welcome this discussion, and I think it's very important and long overdue. From my work experience, I think there's a need to be a change of mind. The labour market is far behind the trend. People don't work at the same place anymore. Average hours may be five to seven years, and it is only very effective for an employer if an employee stays in the job for five to seven years. Therefore, e.g. the thought that a person over 60 can't be hired because he is so short for retirement in this context. It's just great to have a person with so much experience and to keep it for five or seven years, i.e. until he finishes his career. That's why I think we're underestimated too much experience. This is a permanence of the recruitment process, both public and private companies, but it is still too much too much to focus on the candidate's educational program, but the experience factors are all too underweight. I would look to what the government could do in that regard, e.g. what is advertised, what demands are made when advertised for new jobs. Why are we always demanding a master's degree when we know that it is a systematic fault of age? A master's score was much less common for the age group, 50 to 170 years old, than for newly graduated students. As a result, we are systematically underestimated by the public experience program of candidates, and we are not giving them the opportunity to equalize them. What is the value of 30 years of experience? What do many, in fact, have degrees of master's degrees in all the experience there is? This could include the government in its own study by not attaching itself to established educational or fitting requirements for advertising. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u64	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A minister for his introductions and all the members of the council who brought up this discussion and pointed to a number of things that were more important and pleasant to hear. I noticed that the highest. Ministers and others discussed the fourth industrial revolution and that the work had become more complex and difficult, perhaps part of the problem. I agree, this calls for increased training and education and giving these people the opportunity to go back and push something under, of course. It's such a short time that I'm going to go straight to what I really want to say, though there's a lot I could remember about what the senators came on. I'm asking, for example. whether the labor movement should not address this matter for its clients and seek to correct and address the problems we have been discussing today. The consequences of this problem are something I'd like to mention. As some said, it causes anxiety, depression, feelings of distress, etc. which often ends with disability, like a whale. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson mentioned. However, the numbers are not in the bad numbers we have in front of us. These numbers are not in here, so the problem may be hidden even more than we realize. Then I ask about the role of women whom I think few have mentioned. There is a great shortage in many large women's classes of staff, teachers, and carers, yet women are highly measured for long - term lack of work in this age group. [[The president calls.]] The problem is even worse among the unskilled in the same areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u65	A respectable president. I like it, like a what? A senator who started this discussion, thanks for the discussion that has been conducted, and tells me that I believe that her conclusion is somewhat because there is not one complete solution that solves the problem. A change of mind in the workforce, as many have noted, may have to be motivated into the workforce to encourage the response. I mentioned in a speech that we need to consider. We also need to help people to adapt constantly to new circumstances, to people who are working in a job market, and to fall out of it. One idea in the material I have heard is that people will not be invited in cooperation with their employer to attend a certain course of education. Rather, they are obliged to take a course or to add to it during work, and there is no commitment to the employer who works for them, so that he has certain obligations to keep up with himself and to stick to the person at work. As noted in the discussion, we are seeing such changes in the work market, not just in the country, but in the world, that they will call for people to be more flexible, and we need to help them to be, that people can be ready to change even the field of service very often. This is especially difficult for those who are not accustomed to it and who are over 50 today. Especially do we need to put our arms around that group. I agree that the State can set a good example. The government under the head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is preparing operations on part - time jobs for people with limited ability and is important for them to use this age group. Other than that, I thank you. A senator for the discussion. [[The president calls.]] It was good, useful, and demeaning, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u66	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym on the confirmation of an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on the Northern Macedonian membership. The Parliamentary decree of this agreement is requested by the Generals to validate an additional contract made at the Northern Atlantic Convention from 1949, as well as to the membership of the Northern Macedonian Republic of Germany into the treaty. February 6th. The 29 states of the Atlantic Community signed an additional contract with the coalition of the Community, in the presence of the foreign minister of northern Macedonia. Two. The addition of the contract requires that it be obtained only if all members of the North Atlantic Convention have reported their confirmation of it. Already 22 coalition countries have completed their confirmatory process and are working to establish that northern Macedonia can become a validated alliance later in the fall. A respectable president. Iceland has always been one of the countries that have stressed that the alliance is open to those democratic states who seek entrance provided they meet political, economic, and military conditions that are applied to candidate countries by admission. In fact, northern Macedonia has met conditions for the majority of its members for years, but due to a dispute between the state and Greece over the formal name of the State, its involvement was maintained for many years. In 2018, a political agreement was finally reached, and the name Northern Macedonia was established by a change in constitution, legislation, and votes in both countries. Thus, all conditions are met for membership in the alliance. Many countries previously under government or in former Soviet territories have sought out the end of the Cold War and are looking for involvement in the Atlantic Community and other international institutions. Iceland has in recent decades confirmed and validated a number of contracts for enlargement of the Union. At the Synod of 1949, the 12 alliances were the 12 statesmen. During the half century, only four kingdoms were added to that group. During the following decade, the number of countries increased by 12 more. Since Montenegro was added in 2017, northern Macedonia becomes the 30th Union. A key point is that each country has its own right to resolve and can guarantee its own interests. It also includes that countries must have the right to choose allies and international groups that they choose to participate in the upcoming conditions. Mr. President. The enlargement of the coalition after the Cold War has been completed in three cycles. In 1994, cooperation and partnerships were opened to the Community by attacking the assessment on terms and objectives of growth. Furthermore, negotiations with governments in a number of countries expressed interest in joining the coalition. For the sake of peace, the so - called cooperation was established, the socialisticship for Peace in English, with a number of cohesion countries, and to prepare new states to be part of the Community, with the permission of the President: ◯Membership Action Plan ◯, essential for such activities. An action plan is a process of reform in nature, and in each state it aims to help countries we intend to apply for involvement in the Atlantic Community. The countries must meet certain conditions, political and economic conditions, but also conditions from a safety point of view, before it can become part of their membership. Northern Macedonia declared independence in 1991 and has had such an action programme since 1999 and has therefore waited for 20 years. On the part of the Community, it has always been emphasized that enlargement aims are to increase European stability and security and, at the same time, strengthen the democratic development that has taken place within the relevant applicant state. In 1997, the first three European countries in the East, Poland, Czech Republic, and Hungary were invited to a summit in Madrid. At the 2002 summit in Prague, seven other countries were involved. The countries, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia became formal members in 2004. The next expansion took place in 2009 when Albania and Croatia were added and eventually became a Montenegro people in 2017. In view of the agreement between Athens and Skopje, which they had obtained on their names, the Controversy of Brussels, July 2018, was decided to invite the State to enter the alliance. The formal name of the State would be in the future the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Each session was held between the state and the Community between September 2018 and January 2019, and the additional contract was signed on February 6, 2000. The state itself will pay the cost of its own protection to the Community's integrated defense system and will not be expected to change its own defence programmes, increase the cost of defense, or carry any additional cost of entrance into the Republic of Northern Macedonia. A respectable president. It is my hope that this case will come as soon as possible to the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee and that we can thus speed up the confirmation process on our part as the greater part of the Union has completed its validation process. The oral requirements have been met. My assessment is to enter northern Macedonia contains a strong message and is an important step to ensure safety in Europe and stability in the Balkan Peninsula. An example of peaceful solution to difficult and long - lasting issues is the release of the divine name between Greece and Macedonia. This is what other countries would like to take as an example in the world affairs, and we would like to have in the Icelandic lottery at the international summit meeting held in London in December. I suggest, sir, a respectable president, that the case be referred to a second siege. ... andwhat. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u67	Mr. President. I view one of the biggest failures of the past decades in the realm of international war at the end of the Cold War in 1989 when it was decided to extend the lives of the Atlantic Community rather than let it go the same way as the other war alliance of the postwar years, the Warsaw Alliance; that it has lost a good opportunity to build up a new system that contributed to democracy, peace, and stability in Europe. It did not go that way, and when the above - informed opponent was already out of the past, the manufacturer's interests were determined to ensure that the Atlantic Union was given an extension of life, for the coalition actually places a rich responsibility on its members on both arms and military contributions. I have not kept my belief that I believe that expansion policy and enlargement of the Atlantic Union are dangerous and the world is a disaster. I don't think it's undisputed that for the sake of developing Russia, its security is threatened by war prevention and increase in the number of NATO Member States as well as the setting of Europe's missile control systems and that this has again affected the political discussion in Russia. I therefore believe that further expansion of the Community is not a positive step in Europe's security and that it would be better to maintain peace, stability, and security in the world, to promote other institutions, to form SE. At the same time, the United Nations Security Council could be reorganized. It is my party, and we believe that we simply feel that the Atlantic Union is a real threat to world peace and security. So I repeat what I say, I don't think anything positive will come out of the further expansion of the Atlantic Community. Now it's going to work. A foreign press committee, but I don't see where I stand today that my position in northern Macedonia will be in any way other than it was the last time the Atlantic Union was enlarged. At that time, I stayed by votes with them the same reasoning that I have presented to us today. I expect it rather, I don't want to speak harder than to speak, that it will also be my attitude when this matter comes back into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u68	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a synopsis proposal for the development of cluster policy, and it's the thing to find on deck. 121, case number 121. I have made this case several times before, first at the 144th legion in 2014 and, in most cases, then; 145., 146., 149. The suggestions are: ▪ The General concludes to assign the government to appoint a group of workers who are assigned to shape public cluster policy. The policies include an arrangement on how the public network of employment on national level cooperates with industry, research and education institutions, rural communities and other relevant stakeholders. The policy will be adopted in the course and implementation plan of the EU and Technical Council of 2017-191919. New cluster policy goal: a. spending money on sectoral development and development objectively, b. to promote the cooperation of science and professional life, c. to promote innovation, d. to promote the competitiveness of companies, industry and the nation, .. to promote prosperity. The government will submit a report to the General with results of a staff group at the end of May 2020.◯ A respectable president. I would like to mention two aspects of the proposal and immediately ask for it. Professional committees to make a special examination. On the one hand, I think it would be a great improvement to seek knowledge of cluster policy and grouping from abroad and to obtain the experience in many foreign lands where public policies work. I'll even come. This will be discussed in my talk and will be discussed in that work is also expected to be done in the same way. to the experience of Dana, Norwegians, and most remote nations in the development of public cluster policy. However, I would like to mention that this is a suggestion and conclude to commit the government to appoint such a task force, that it belongs at the highest level. Industrial, innovation, and tourism minister who has just put the end of a innovation policy. I haven't had a presentation with her yet, but I'm assuming she'll be publicly published in the future. I believe that when we discuss innovation and innovation, a public cluster policy should be part of such a general policy. It is also fully in accordance with the Constitution and the Supreme Declaration. Governments to shape such policies, public cluster policy, and in the declaration it stresses encouraging all kinds of innovations, saying, under the permission of the president: It will be set in motion to prepare a cluster policy for Iceland that works with the strengths of different sectors in the cooperation of education, research, employment, rural society, and other stakeholders. It states that such official clusterism will be developed in the policy and implementation programmes of the Scientific and Technical Council. In this context, I would like to quote the first review of the case presented in 2014, which was the reference from the Basis. It focused on this linking to the Scientific and Technical Action Programme, as there is a great deal in the ideological strategy. The review, by permission of the president, says: The agreements support the proposal and suggest that it be accepted. It is positive that governments use cluster ideas to promote and strengthen the supporting systems of employment and to promote innovation. Many examples, both in our home and abroad, are fine results from shopping together, including the Oceanist archipelago. However, the community wants to stress that such policies are consistent with other government policies in the same area, i.e. The plans of the Scientific and Technical Council, as suggested in the proposal, but also the developer programme, national application programmes and other emphasis on the projects involved. I think this is a very good comment because the suggestions show that we employ money systematically. Now we're doing a lot of work to help build up the country, to promote international employment, and what the cluster policy does is further link educational institutions and research, and to encourage us to further define the production factors we have in each area and the possibilities available. By doing so, we can make more use of the money we employ for that purpose. I wholeheartedly agree with what is presented in this review, thinking that there is already a reason. A professional health committee will discuss this aspect. I have no doubt that a working group with knowledge and background in such policies will review this. It has tremendous opportunities for governments to increase efficiency in the provision of funds and to work systematically all regional policies, job structure, and rural development. The cluster concept is by no means new and can be traced back to Michael Porter's theory. Of course, it is known here in the country, and Iceland's New Arts Center is a leading research and development work in that field, as well as the fact that a very familiar annual cluster publication has published a guidebook on cluster management, which is in the motion of an editorial. It also provides a definition of the ideologies, which says that helgeological clusters of linked enterprises, suppliers, services, business-related organisations and institutions in specialized fields of competition, as well as in cooperation and cooperation, to be developed. When I read that definition, I can think of the geothermal already. We have achieved tremendous success by cooperating with different people in different areas. There are new ideas, and as well as the class, not all classes need or necessarily have a global connection. It is not only that the innovation will be useful in the country but it can create new ideas, new technologies, new thinking that have international appeals and will, as shown in the proposal, the nation's competitiveness. The initiatives of the public and commercial world have been seen by such fine clusters, such as the aquarium, as well as by the commercial groups that have been successful and have proved their value. I have an understanding of the criticism that has been shown that when the government or the government promote policy, it can somehow block the structure of self - fire departments. On the contrary, it is not the meaning and lack of experience abroad, in contrast with promoting support for such a group. The focus is always on cooperation and building a bridge between the research work and the department. In effect, we should stress the cooperation between the research work and the currently established clusters and the new clusters, the knowledge and the basis for which they have come. It's a good thing there's been some experience here. When the case was presented, two reviews were made, one from the local community where I came in, and then from the Iceland Business Council, which was also very positive to the proposal, and a business council supported the proposal at that time, 2014. It says, by permission of the president: The testing of other nations has shown that the benefits of clustering activities, such as those required by the Parliament's decision, may be considerable. The implementation of cluster policy is important, but the key is that the implementation of such policies is largely in the hands of the industry itself. Similarly, the role of public members should be well reserved and restricted to the sentence of a law code and follow-up. Finally, the Commission stresses the need for public spending as a result of the above policies. All of this can be said, a respectable president. As I told you, cluster policy is particularly about developing and building a bridge between institutions of education and research, public institutions and employment. Nor is it necessary to call for a large amount of additional items but should primarily use the existing ones and go to innovation and are in the system, including to build-up and work structure, to make more efficient and targeted use of funds. The experience from abroad has shown that such cooperation is especially useful in SMEs. That sounds very good to us. Speaking of the experience abroad, we senators had the opportunity to have a conversation with Ifor Williams, who is a great expert in this field from New Zealand, via the New Zealand, and in Iceland, he had to say that we had been in this business late. Several clauses have been founded and have been made available to finance but to very small levels of government involvement so far. He thought there was a great opportunity, and I had even. The opportunity to ask him about this, and he felt that it was just that it was very important for governments, government, government, and public, to have, in general, where such policies were involved. It lacks the policy programme. In the course of time, when we have presented the matter, me and the rest of the company, it has gone further on the committee, and the last seven comments were received. They were all positive, and one Mass would be worth referring to, for they contain many lessons. Of course, time is running away from you. I want at the end, a respectable president, to say that I hope the matter continues to receive the positive coverage it has so far, I don't expect anything else, but there will be further progress in the discussion. That committee must be an incentive for this. Government and supreme. Industrial and innovation minister that the Council is behind such a proposal. I also deeply appreciate the fact that all classes support the matter and feel that the General should be able to support such matters in the case. The movers and I come from all groups of the General Assembly, which are left behind. Councilmen: He stands here, Willum S. Ingi Pétursson, Þorsteinn Víglundsson Elisabjörður, Anna Gauti, Sævarsdóttir Bragi Sveinsson, Friðriksson Friðsson, Bergþór Ólason Sæland, Björn Gunnlaugsson of Þórarinsson, Sigurður Kjörnsson, Gólgörgnarsson, Lólælækækækólólólólólólólólólsson, Sigmfur Guðnnsson, Sigmnnssonsson, Jóððurssonssonssonsson, Jóðmundsson
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson for the contributions of this proposal. It's been done too many times, and now we just have to finish it, so we don't have to try again. This is a very important matter, and thank you. A senator for the speech. He reviewed the fact that clustering is increasingly new in innovation and employment development to ensure competitiveness, both regional and national. That is where we simply have to be on our toes. Although some of our competitiveness is very good, we are more relaxed when it comes to other factors. I am convinced that this may be a tool that will be useful in furthering the competitiveness of Iceland's professional life. No public policy has been developed here. A senator noted that some may be concerned that developing a public policy is not exactly the right thing to do when it comes to employment, and perhaps it is better to think that it is self - discipline. We have quite a few self-employed malls, we have an aluminum cluster and a tourist cluster, but the best example is the ocean's delicacy, perhaps the best known one. They are more than I can see right now than the fact that a whole mind is taken under the importance of a public policy on this fine mall. In a review from the branch office, I saw that they consider government policy to be extremely important. Then action is needed. I came up here mostly to reiterate the importance of this. Like what? A senator went through the record time at the end as I am among a lot of tourists, so I support the case, and there is also reason to point out that this is spoken of in the government's declaration of policy. Hv. A senator came in only the same way that we expect innovation policy very soon, and I think it all works very well together. It is important that the European research and scientific work be aware of the needs of the workplace and that good conversation and coordination are between the academic environment and the working world, although I quite acknowledge the importance of academic freedom. The innovation and eco-efficiency are a factor in working together, finding new solutions, and increasing the value in this country. As it has been said, I support this case and I hope I don't need to go to AlIIa's Lady to make it right because we're done at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson for speaking this matter. That's at least About two decades ago, the person here heard the first talk about a mall, and I have to admit that when my dear ex - school friend, Þorsteinn Broddason, got excited about me north of Skavetordur and said that we had to look at this mall policy, I thought he was talking about some disease. Classes? It was something a man had not heard of. One came on the day, the form of the procedure, and has proved to be the scene and source of many activities, ideas, cooperation and cooperation that have come out of new service, new products, technological progress, etc. We have seen that in Iceland several members have joined together to form a cluster or a social network. The most known are, of course, the class listed here, e.g. The aquifer and the fishing plant. The icicle is one and the tourist attraction, and it is the agricultural farm that gathers in the agricultural sector, trying to find ways to stimulate innovation and new ways to do so. In the motion itself, which in itself is not very complex, there is an idea of creating a policy that would better define how the official support of industry on national levels in cooperation with industry and research and education institutions, etc. I think it's very important - and in itself, no one needs to be afraid of it - that the government has some kind of vision or policy in these matters. It is very good that the official even gathers parties that will eventually be involved in forming some kind of cooperation or agreeing to promote innovation in their fields, even making clusters, and in fact, they can be big or small. They do not necessarily have to be in the same articles. One may wonder, " Is the Bank of Thyatira not really a vessel where a certain service has been arranged to maintain the local or home service level and, of course, try to improve it? ' There's a lot of sides on this thing we call a mall. In the Senate arrangement, the experience of others who are likely to be seen is attributed to the experience. Experience in Iceland is also very good, as was shown by the 1st traveller of this case. I hope, as others here have spoken, that the matter is now going to progress and that ideologies are getting more attention and more support, and that they will promote cooperation within certain sectors, especially at the top of the industry. For example, we have seen that cooperation in the marine mall is a source of ideas that can later become big. Of course, not all ideas become reality, but there are different people, see what other people are doing, can impart experience, knowledge, etc. I'm not going to extend the discussion. It is not in itself a complicated suggestion, it is a pleasure to see how many were interested in this matter. I hope that the proposal will be well discussed by the committee it goes to, the prospective employment committee, and will be completed with shiny tribunals at the council at its appointed time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u71	Mr. President. I'll take it up to reiterate the support I had in this case the last time it was moved. It's moved back now, and I'm very happy to see it, and I'd just like to remind you that the beginning of cluster policy comes from the cooperation of scientists, who have gradually increased into most or all branches and between enterprises in different articles. It's been happening in decades, developing quite fast, and we can be absolutely sure that it's the former cluster policy, but it's evolved on its own. It has developed some ideologies that are common with cluster policy makers. As shown in the case of others. Congress has shown its benefits to a group conference in Iceland. There have been many other examples of the waters of the sea and the earth's surface. Of course, it is accurate that this activity needs to be set up in some kind of public framework that is to improve, both to explain the ideologies and open links between different parties, whether in education, research, or employment, and, above all, to offer some kind of counsel or requirement. Qualifications may be too strong, but at least Instructions on the activities of a cluster. I just want to call attention to one thing that I don't think I've done last, and that is, of course, there are many types of clusters. Usually, some kind of work together within the workplace, e.g. in production or services, but I want to bring up the climate on my own. It is possible to think of a cluster of activities that focus on climate development, perhaps in line with the cooperation that is now known as the Sea, which is about finding new ways to drive larger ships, including seabed companies, etc., and making this cluster revolve around research and innovation, specific projects, both on the behalf of companies and on the institutions, or what we would like to say, measures against the disposal and binding of carbons. It is also possible to think of as some sort of cluster teaming for response, i.e. adaptation to climate change. So this is either done by establishing the special malls that I mention or weave the climate in the commercial trade industry itself, by trying to keep that test or a focus in high esteem to look into climate. We're talking about this in general legislation, why not do this too when it comes to widespread community cooperation? In this way, we will, of course, strengthen our resistance to that vital issue. I reiterate the support of the left green, if I may do so on their behalf, and exhort towards the utmost cross-crossing solidarity and the payment of this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u72	V.E.G. President. First of all, I'm going to thank you for your positive, good discussions, and second thoughts. The speakers who brought some very important points into the discussion, w. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. paritaprevir Brutish Haraldsdóttir, all of whom are partners. I visited it and directed the Committee to visit the foreign specialists, who I have no doubt that the Committee will and then the staff at that time, and learn from the experience of other countries that have advanced in such policies. I'd like to refer to the review of the Second Creation Centres on the case last time. I remember a report from Denmark evaluating the results so that smaller and medium-sized companies who have participated in shopping activities are four times more likely to produce new ideas in their work so that the possibility of innovation and innovation is greatly increased. This is very important to me that we keep in mind from the beginning, how we measure the results of such a course, such a job, and how we use it. In its review to the Norwegian report on clusters and results from 2015 clustering, the President's permission points out that clustering is likely to be successful when partners are united in a clear vision and a policy of benefits. This is a partnership in which private partners are responsible. - Then we're talking about a self-important mall. It's all over the chain of value, especially building this bridge between education and research and employment. It's a team of people involved in knowledge institutions and bodies in innovation and employment development. Cooperation is essential for increased resources and competitiveness. - It's always an underlying factor, and then it says, as is true of most of the things we're dealing with in this: So I directed to the committee to see if the proposal should not be held at the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. It is suggested that the task force would seek knowledge from abroad. At the same time, it is important to consult with those already present. The Icelandic tourist attraction suggests that the current Icelandic class is allowed to develop such official cluster policy in consultation. I also feel that it is very important to avoid entering my speech. In a similar vein, the Icelandic sea icicle. Thank you for your discussion, and I expect the case to be handled just and well, as at any given moment. A professional health committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u73	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a second action as a plagion proposal to shape a policy that promotes people of a foreign background to participate in the community. The shorter version of the name would be an import policy. This proposal was previously made at a 149th legislature and is virtually unchanged. Transporters are all members of the Conspiracy, the one standing here and Elíasdóttir Frifjörg of Elias, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Guðmundur and Thorsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, and Njörður Sigurðsson. The suggestion reads as follows: The General concluded to hide a social and equal minister in cooperation with education and cultural minister, health minister and Minister of Justice to shape policies for individuals and families of foreign origin, with the goal of increasing mutual understanding and participation in all areas of society. Special attention will be given to social rights, health care, education and employment participation so that in Iceland there will be a population of population with fundamental factors of equality, justice, and respect for life without discrimination. Secretary introduces the Council of the Council at the beginning of the 151th legislature. The proposal's report has to do with the main reasons for the proposed policies in the seminary. Furthermore, the situation in this region of human life in Iceland is discussed. Of course, it is the most important thing for education, education, employment, social rights, general adaptation to society and well - being. By the turn of the year, 44,000 immigrants were enrolled in Iceland and had increased by 7,700 since the preceding year. Since 2012 they have increased from 8% to 12.6% of the population. In all likelihood, the same trend continues. The combined number of first and second generations of immigrants is 13.9% of the population and has never been higher. We are rapidly approaching the average ratio in most European countries. Importers in Iceland and their families come from many parts of the world, but representatives from nearly 170 countries are currently living in Iceland. Mr. President. Worldwide, there are nearly 260 million people, people who are looking for a secure supply and a safer future for themselves and their children. It can be economic, weatherlike, or materialistic. Many Westerners find it difficult to wash their hands with the responsibilities they bear on poor conditions in many countries of their own country, directly and indirectly. Therefore, we are required to display insight and tolerance, and we meet our years in a wholesome way. But do we? No, we tend to be quick. Voices that foster suspicion and fear make themselves valid. Do we have specific policies on how we welcome strangers who would like to settle down here? No, she's starving. Some of these are entirely distorted - whether children, students, or working people. The challenge lies in these enormous migrations, great opportunities, and one of the greatest challenges to the international community. According to the United Nations Refugee Institute for Refugees, the majority of immigrants or passengers, perhaps around 90%, move in on their own. This is because people are looking for a better, more efficient source of food, a job that is not suitable in their area, or a job is not available. The remaining 10% are defined as refugees and refugees who move to other countries from persecution, threats, and conflicts. Now we're talking about an hour or so. Half of the passengers and refugees travel from so - called developing countries to developed countries. The majority of immigrants on the move have completed some kind of education before entering a new location. The convention countries should enjoy and, of course, benefit. About 35% of immigrants worldwide have completed university education or more specialized professional education, but it is well - known that education is late and poorly accepted and appreciated in a country where Iceland is not divorced. The experience of people moving from country to country should be positive in view of their personal history and transport, and should impress on your song: ◯ Even if you are a long way ahead / any country underfoot. This is true not only of earlier times but of all recent years. Iceland's Western voyages are a remarkable feature of the nation's history, but they probably moved about 6,500 people to North America from 1870 until the turn of the century to 1914 or perhaps longer. This was part of a larger and larger move from Europe to America, an estimated 52 million have moved across the sea during this period. The causes of Europe's western journeys were many, but they were poverty, narrow areas, freedom, and even hunger. People were trying their luck, seeking better food in the land of opportunity, asking for no family nor rank but hard work and means. Most Europeans have settled in the United States, but Iceland made its way to Canada. In the financial collapse, the same was true. Thousands of people moved Iceland to a foreign land. Many have returned home, while others have taken root in foreign lands, sought education, and obtained employment that is acceptable, bonding with family and friends. There are nearly 47,000 non - Israelites enrolled in foreign lands at this time. Of course, most people in the North are, but there are Icelandic citizens everywhere, for example. 118 countries of the 193 member states of the United Nations But they are loners in many places. One Icelander is registered in 20 states. So we go abroad -- Švím struts, so I guess. From now on, the experience of immigrants around the world is that they face more often, not more likely challenges in some form of their new community. This has been confirmed by studies, research, and Icelandic. This has been examined by many cultures, as has the Office of Human Rights. Much is discussed and written in our time about the situation and adjustment of immigrants in the world. The red thread in the discussion of adaptation is always the same as it is three. That's the attitude of the local people, for those who are on surface. There is much question about how to adapt to the community, since this is a twofold challenge. It's one thing. Another is the development of wholesome, well - organized community discussions on the affairs of passengers, immigrants, and refugees. Such discussions need to be led by the government, the government. Third, it also discusses the importance of long - term processes, policy, and respect for these policies. These are considered important keys. Of course, the new country needs access to all systems of society, whether it's the education system, the work market, the housing system, health services, sports and youth service, or other important community mails. This material has a wide pot broken. Then, of course, we need to take up a much more intensive discussion of what is involved in the concept of a multicultural society. We're a little broken in our wing about having terms that are useful in this discussion. We often talk, as I mentioned earlier, about adaptation to society, adaptability policy. We must bear in mind that it is a dual concept. Both of us have to adapt to new ways, and the new land should have to do the same. It's a dual. The accepted and general understanding of diversity is that foreign to Iceland and its descendants are deeply involved and have the potential for molding our good and just society. A true recognition of the importance of immigrants is the main theme of a adaptation program in the affairs of immigrants. Once again, we have a slight wing fracture in terms of termization. We have an important network in the Icelandic language that has been established. A General Assembly has established various laws on the issues associated with immigrants. In 2016, there was a resolution on the implementation program for immigrants to the present year of 2019, and we do not know what will happen. This strategy was followed in several ways. She is a member of five teams, but she's not really what she's left behind. At the last assembly, it was adopted that the immigrant counseling agency would be established in cooperation with several members of the unit and at the State scene to provide counseling and information to immigrants on services, rights and duties. The minister will introduce how this work is being done now in January 2020. All of this is good, strengthens the compromise of the group and improves the attitude of new Icelanders. Of course, we have a deep - seated organization, one that has been able to cope with its tasks depending on the circumstances, but it has not been allowed to do so financially. It's the Multicreature Manor of Iceland. All hope is that they will be able to get together the work of the Multihuman Institute at Isafjordur and the new immigrant counseling agency and that this will be one agency where there is a hand in carrying out an important task. As mentioned in the report, there are three main themees, education, employment policy, and welfare issues, which must be the main concern of new Icelanders. Education applies equally to adults and children of foreign origin. We need to pay close attention to these matters. You need to focus on active bifocals in all school and leisure activities. Likewise, the origin and experience of children and young people need to be treated with respect. Of course, when it comes to high school, there is concern that children of foreign background are less likely to attend high school, and of that small group, they graduate even lower percentages. This is a concern. Many immigrants have educational, experience, and skills that are not recognized, as I mentioned earlier. With regard to employment, we have to make sure that immigrants sit at the same level as Icelanders. It's got a broken pot. The lack of employment among immigrants is higher than that of other populations. It is up to us to expand our education, both professional and immigrant. During the past few months, we have seen shocking examples of the failure of this subject. The well - being of the well - to - do is a host of social factors. And one of the most important and complex tasks in society is to counteract prejudice and enlightenment. That's what's important. Mr. President. The results of the election in many European countries last year indicate that the growth and spread of extremes that promote nationalism and hatred of foreigners and masses are a fact. In this country, such views have also received sound bases and may even hear their echoes in the chamber. In many countries, groups of foreigners have become influential positions, councils, and rural governments, and some of their representatives have even become leaders. A respectable president. In the North, there is the most competitive communities in the world with equality, welfare, and social responsibilities ahead of them. The northern countries have also been on the road to the affairs of immigrants. Improving the position of immigrants in Iceland and molding policy in this area is a matter of justice, humanitarian matter, and cultural factors but also an important part of the structure of multicultural society that promotes human wealth, increase the variety and prosperity. Both contribute to greater creation, greater culture, global vision, intellectual activation, and social benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u74	A respectable president. This decree is held by Halldóra Mogensen, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Smári Mccarthy, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Kristinsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölólófótir, and Víglundsson. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the government from signing and validating for Iceland on behalf of the third optional book on the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 19, 2011, and immediately initiate its implementation here on land and complete the induction by the spring council of 2021. This proposal has previously been proposed to 148. and 149. The third optional book to the United Nations Children's Covenant is to define a way of dealing with children. This book enables children and their representatives to appeal specific matters to the United Nations Child - Rights Committee. 51 countries have signed the book, and 44 countries have validated it. Now, on April 10, 2019, the last fully validated Palestine book. The third optional book on the UN Convention on Child Rights gives children and their representatives permission to sue the Child Court to meet certain conditions. The children's covenant was for a long time the only international human rights contract without an international organisation that could be directed on an individual basis if Member States were not deemed to meet their obligations according to the terms of the covenant. Enrolled in April 2014, a great step was taken to the child's human rights war and includes the book recognition of child independent rights. Has so even. claimed that this book is the greatest victory in the child's rights struggle from the birth of the child's covenant. It is very important that the Icelandic government immediately initiate preparations for the signing and validation of the book. Action must be taken to enable children to seek their rights more effectively here on the country. This could be done by a special campaign in which governments and judges would be offered instruction on the requirements of childhood service to children and their independent access to information and counselling. It is important that the Icelandic State validate the book and thus strengthen the child's own rights, and discussed the agent of the children. of this in their annual reports and reports on the main concerns published in the summer of 2017. Then, in October 2014, children's executives in the North countries issued a joint declaration urging the northern governments to strengthen the child's human rights by signing and validating the third optional book. It also obligates the importance of seeking justice and suing the child - rights committee. Finland and Denmark have already validated the registration. Iceland is relatively prominent in international comparison in ensuring the child's human rights, and there is a great need to take action to maintain that position. One of the main advantages of validating the third optional publication is that children could be given in this country a chance to consult an international health care provider who will attend each session as to whether Icelandic legislation and implementation were in accordance with the rules of the Children's Convention. This is of utmost importance in view of the independent rights of children as well as the authority of children, as well as their own rights. With the legalization of the children's covenant, the Icelandic government took a very important step toward child - protection. By signing and validating the third optional book and opening open the way for children and their representatives to the United Nations Child Court Committee, the step would be fully taken. The website of the Children's Directors of Child's Rights is discussed only on the Child's Committee, that specific committee of the child's rights is specified in Geneva, and that Member States should submit a report every five years on the implementation of the children's contract in each country. Iceland has sent three reports to the Committee to get a positive opinion about what is lacking. The next report should appear each. I find it very interesting, Mr. President, that Iceland has a representative in this child rights committee but Iceland does not allow us, children and their representatives, to report to the committee, despite the fact that Iceland has a representative, Bragi Guðbrandsson, on that committee. Only the fact that we are acting as representatives of that committee but that we allow children and their representatives not to take their case there should be clear guidance for us to complete our third optional publication. It is as simple as that. We are fully involved in that committee by having a representative there, but we do not allow the Icelanders to speak to her. There is a measure of the difference between irony and the irony, but I was confident that it would hurt. This is the third time the case is referred to, at any rate recommended - and bring it here and we'll finish it in no time at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u75	A respectable president. We're talking about a contingency proposal for signing and validating a third of the optional books with the United Nations Children's Covenant. Thank you. Gunnarsson As part of the case, I am one of the supporters of the matter. I think it's important. In effect, a group of people was founded on the poverty of children. Of course, it sucks to have to say in the General's symposium that there are poor children in Iceland and not just anyone but 10%. That is why it is incomprehensible that a large population of move has to be as easy as this, and it should probably be acceptable to children's rights. It's only an automatic process to accept the rights of children rights immediately. If I think back to school, I don't remember ever hearing or learning that a child has any rights. It tells itself that we should give children full rights, accept all their rights. But number one, two and three, inform them in school and include all their information on their rights and how they can apply it. This should be part of their education. I'm not gonna have this long. I'll take my heart into it and support the motion and hope that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear for his history and for his persistence. As noted earlier, the matter has been submitted and instructed. The interpretation proposal, which is not particularly complex and of importance to children's rights, has been moved twice before and is now being moved for the third time. It is quite amazing that such a matter, which is very simple and about important rights, such as a prominent speaker in his speech, should not run through the General Assembly. Although we are all here and have many opinions, I don't think a few people are found here who are against this matter. That's where we're back to what we've been busy talking about in the United States, just since the formation of the party, i.e. the importance of living within the council. In recent years, I know that other groups have taken it up in their language. I think this case is exactly what it is, that we have validated the United Nations Children's Covenant, legally bound it, but not completely, is really a stumbling block, not because of political opposition. I challenge it. Congress members of this committee, which I understand, is a full-scale and educational committee, hm. The Foreign Affairs Committee, to make this issue a matter for all time, and it doesn't have to be held out at the end of Congress. [[Arrangement: Foreign Affairs Commission.]] You can only pass this case through, it's that kind of thing. I'll at least. Press down the representatives of the United States to settle the issue and to pressure that it will be done so that we do not have to discuss it at the next assembly as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u77	A respectable president. Just a brief matter to respond to the discussion. Senators who came up here. We have another case that was brought here yesterday on economic, social, and cultural rights, which is very similar, and just as likely as this and which are naturally associated very much with it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson said about the poverty of children. They only paint on this particular group, calling for the help that these books can provide. Then, very little time after education has been greatly improved by the children's covenant, which is greatly improved. I did not learn of such things at school or about human rights at all; there was no baby covenant at that time. But the children's covenant is particularly important because it holds the child's rights in excess of the rights of the human rights covenant because children have the right to greater protection from their position. These are the added rights of the children's covenants. It is said that they all have rights under the European Convention, of course, they are people as well as everyone else, but they are more protected by their position, their more sensitive position, and that is what the children's covenant provides. I challenge anyone to criticize that covenant, for I cannot think of how that matter should go further. We have a representative of the Child Welfare Committee, but we do not allow the Icelanders to plead there. This alone should be sufficient to pass this issue along with the matter of economic, social, and cultural rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u78	Mr. President. Freedom to establish a society of beliefs and beliefs is a fundamental element of the community we have agreed on and guaranteed by law. For this freedom to be real, both in word and at table, there must be other fundamental factors that we agree on, which are equal and equal. However, it contains a broken pot and has to be reassigned. Religion's relationship with its establishments has a long history throughout the world. Chapters have been difficult to distinguish between secular and spiritual authority, as everyone knows. The story of this relationship is rich in Iceland, and it can be said, in effect, that from the beginning of land mines, from pagan customs to Christianity, later the Reformation, and finally into the development of a state - and - church relationship, after the Icelanders received a constitution and took their own affairs into their own hands as an independent and sovereign nation. It is obvious that in Iceland, over the years and decades, there have been significant social changes, as well as attitudes toward the status of religious and biological associates, their relationship with the State, and major changes in the community. Therefore, it is not necessarily possible for religion and lifestyle organizations to have a special connection with the State, much less to differ from law and financial ties to the same state. I think it's safe to say that this view has grown in the spine and seems to me at least. That five of the eight political parties representing the council should understand that state and church must be understood and given equal freedom of worship by law and financial support according to incident. There are 11 members of the four panels that follow this suggestion; Valdimarsson Steindordrisson, Hanna Friðriksson Fridorksson, Þólður Þorgerður Gunnarsdótr K. Gunnarsdóttir, Víglundsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Bebe Leví Gunnarsson, Helgadóttir Velgadóttir, Mól Hrafn Helgi Gunnarsson, Guðfri Andri Árnadóttir, Steinunn Þóra, S., Brjánsson. The interpretation proposal itself reads, with president's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide prime minister, financial and economic minister and justice minister to provide prime warnings on one side of the full, legal and financial separation of state and church and on the equalness of all religious and principles in their relations and their defined tasks with and before state, rural and other public bodies. Secretarys no later contribute the bills than in the spring council in 2021, saying that there will be a separation later than at the end of 2034.◯ Mr. President. In Iceland, religion is free of worship, but one religion has a unique position. At 62rd. The Constitution says, by permission of the President: ▪ The European Lutheran Church shall be a National Church in Iceland, and the State shall therefore support and protect it. This can be changed by law.◯ Organization, role, and communication with the church are laws, contracts, and customs. No other religious or biological society enjoys a somewhat comparable position, far from it. The Department of Justice to the General on the status of the National Church and its connection with the State over other religious and biological institutions was published on September 6 of this issue. It shows that the Icelandic State pays the National Church on the basis of contracts made in addition to its other income stocks, legally and illegally. Other religions and institutions do not have the same type of payment, thus having the local churches more specifically than they do. September 6th. was signed by an additional government and national church contract to review church contracts and remunerations for priests and personnel of the National Church, but the agreement was originally made in 1997. Mr. President. Member States that the State of the nations has made great changes in the last century and even more so in this century. There is little evidence that this trend will change in decades to come. Nearly everyone was enrolled in the State Church at the time, but that situation has changed completely. According to Economics, about 90% of the population in the National Church in 1998 and 65% were in the second year of the year. That is when people in the National Church have virtually reduced the number of roads since 2010. That was the case in 1998,44,893 enrolled in the State Church and 232,591 by the last year. Outside the local church, 124,400 people were at the same time. Of course, the Church remains the largest individual religion and has the head and shoulders of other religions and institutions. Similarly, the Church should be best prepared to stand on its own feet off all the country's religious and biological institutions. The nations, like the State, may be expected to benefit from the legal and financial separation of these institutions. There are two factors mentioned in this synoptic arrangement. First, there will be a legal bill that includes full segregation of state and church as law, material, and financial status. This means that there will be a series of commitments based on current legislation and special agreements, including the regulations of the Constitution of the State Church, which ensures special positions over other religious and biological institutions. It is expected that all agreements should be concluded permanently, so that the end will be no later than 2034. Second, there will be a bill for a comprehensive legislation on all religious and biological institutions. It will set a standard rule on their activities and according to experiences as to whether the State should be involved in the current collections or that such collections are entirely in the hands of its own members, without the presence of the State. The bill also includes regulations on how to deal with the budget, and it is thought that it would be necessary to delegate certain social projects to them. They will be made specific temporary service contracts and will be fully equal between those partners who want to take on such assignments and meet the general requirements for professional ability to handle them. Such bill will be available in this terms period. The will of a declaration that followed the additional Icelandic government contract and the National Church I mentioned earlier for a review of an agreement on the Church. expected reviews and termination of a number of laws relating to these issues and can be very useful in providing a comprehensive set of legislation on all religions and principles. Mr. President. Finally, it should be made clear that the proposal does not focus on the State Church as a religion or a Christian. The purpose, however, is to create equality and equality. State and church have long shared history, and at the same time the church has a religious, cultural, and social function. Respect and acknowledge. That is why the synonym suggests that up to 15 years can pass until the final separation occurs. Some may feel that it is too much time. However, the matter is growing to such an extent that time is needed for careful action and for all to adapt to changing circumstances and conditions. I trust that the matter will be given careful and balanced coverage at the Senate Hall and then in the concierge. General and Education Committee, where I suggest that the case be dismissed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's latest history on very interesting matters. I am not one of its transporters, but prudently, without my going into the matter, that I wholeheartedly agree with them and with their transporters. But when I was listening to the story, I started to think about it, and I decided to take advantage of it and to have a word about it and all its bothers. A senator, hoping that he will respect me. We've got a situation here. A senator did well over it. I wanted to ask him about a position that came up in a consulting national law. Many of us in this hall and many of us on this bill often indicate the obligation of the government to respect the results of national agreements. The Council of National Relations asked: Do you want a new constitution to be a provision for a national church in Iceland? It was agreed with--Well, I don't remember the result, but much more. Hv. A senator did not come into it in his history, so I noticed. I'd like to ask him what his attitude is about doing that. I ask the answer to that question in the National Remuneration Act and whether we can bring up a case that violates its conclusions, and that may include other questions in the National Remuneration as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question. Of course, this has to do with a problem. It has been some time since this fine vote was given. That's one point. Then we can ask ourselves, " What has happened to this entire national law? ' There's been a lot since this was settled, and I think that, for example, it is. The proportion of members of the State Church has declined, though some time ago. We can then ask ourselves, " Is such a provision adopted in a national law - paying volume such as this? ' Congress and nation forever, even if the strange situation that I am not predicting would remain in the National Church. Where's the limit? I realize this problem all the time, but I think the situation has changed. We're talking a long time. We're not talking about any expression in this context. In view of the situation then and how it has been prepared, the question may simply be raised in due course, and these bills will be reviewed, as is always being done, in the light of the facts. If these bills become the law and the court is set, is the nation acceptable or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u81	Madam President. Thank you. A senator with the best answers. In itself, I have no further questions. It was just a party that I wondered about under the history of a man. Senator. It may be said that much of the reasoning is needed. In the face of this question, a senator agreed on other questions that were raised in that national law. I just wanted to say thank you. A senator for answering these thoughts. He's gonna decide if he's coming back up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u82	A respectable president. I am one of the couriers of this case, so I have come up here to state my support for it. Yet, this is not a simple matter altogether. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé made quite clear one of the facts that puzzled me. I'll admit it. One is that I am rather positive about this institution, the National Church, as it now operates. I believe it has a most important role in Icelandic society and is important to the many people in the country who use its services. I also believe that in many ways the church is a successful channel for the religious needs of the people of the country. We must not belittle the need for a religious life that may be manifest in many ways. In the past, the Evangelical Lutheran Church has been a moderate, positive channel for the need for worship and prayer that many people have, and we must not belittle. In addition, the church has served as an important social setting, a platform for various social activities, and so on. It is easy to prove that Iceland's Church is a national pioneer organization. But what I think may be the most important reason to support this case doesn't necessarily involve the Christian religion or the function of the National Church as such, and not even what, though, may be the basic argument of the first transporter, the freedom and equal reasoning, i.e. That all religious groups are equal, which are certainly an important argument that I agree with. The most important thing to my mind is that I believe that the basis for our community in Western European society is complete separation from the religious and secular realms. This is very important in the way these communities have evolved and the way they deal with their affairs, making decisions on both the rights and the duties of their citizens, and just everything in their communities. There we have established a way of teaching government and democracy. One of their foundations is to take power from the religious realm and transfer it to an elected representative. Thus, it is no longer a hierarchical power that makes decisions about our lives, as was true in earlier centuries when the church divided people's lives and was incredibly involved in everyday life, actually had rules and prayers for almost every hour of the day. Happily, that time has passed, and our society has become worldly. Our life is held on a secular basis. It is very important to remember that this is important to preserve and strengthen. I believe that this will not be permanently established except by the full separation of the state and church. There's also another factor that I want to kill before I quit, and that's that I think there's a huge need for total legislation on religious and biological institutions. In recent years, there have been examples of financial activity in the name of such associates that it has been difficult for governments to deal with. Even governments have not had resources to handle the fraud and financial activity that have been carried out in the name of religious organizations. It is very important that such communities are somehow unrecognized as religious and biological societies and are not paid - or are not paid - unless they can show that certain conditions are met. After all, I am convinced that the long - term separation that this important institution, the National Church, would benefit and remain a very important part of Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u83	A respectable president. A group of people offers a bill to legalize social security laws with subsequent changes (expansive information and surveillance clearances). Besides me as a messenger, Inga Sæland on your bill. The bill includes Article 1. to 2 mg. Thirty-nine. The law will go away and 2nd... is about 2 and 3 mg. 40. g. The law will pass away. In the 3rd. says: "Rather than the words of an advisor, a taxpayer, or his mate, to the 41th proverb. The law comes in: a snooper or a taxpayer. The bill was submitted to a 149th legion (789th case) and is now submitted unchanged. It was never recommended back then. The bill is suggested to set up checks in the Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, must be removed. Details on how to obtain information on the employer's income or the paygiver under the law, or the obligation of a partner to participate in the treatment of a case. Then the applicant will not be allowed to show off because of the lack of needed information that is attributable to his or her partner. It is the assessment of the CDC that the current law on information and surveillance clearances go too far in destabilizing privacy of applicants and payers and the right to help them with sickness, disability, age, unemployment, poverty, and comparable events, as per regulations 76. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. That principle is set out in Article 3. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons to respect inborn human dignity and self - control, including the freedom to make personal decisions and their independence. Is it reasonable to consider the provision of the current social insurance law to be burdensome and to place too much pressure on an individual who has the rights under the contract to obtain information from his or her spouse and to weigh individuals who need to be inclined by the neglect of a mate to perform their duties? The law thus allows a postponement of decision and payment because of factors that will not be traced to the candidate or to the paygiver himself. When these laws were originally set, 2014, they were actually violating human rights of microenergy recipients who were applying for disability improvements. One group apologized for accepting these laws, which were agreed on by all approved votes. It was the Pirantars. The law suggests that if the mate who is applying for a microbiographical pension does not reveal everything about himself, if he in any way refuses to reveal personal information, the disability donor who is applying, the other spouse, can be removed from the disability donor. It is surprising that such a law was adopted at the Council of the Year. The other is even more surprising, that these laws still apply, for they, and I am quite convinced of that, not only violate the human rights of the individual, but they are also violations of the personal protection laws that have already been approved, new personal protection laws, and can never resist that view. If we look at how these laws were given back then, there is a period of 39 C.E. ......... mg, about the details of candidates and caregivers, also apply to the candidate's partner or employee, as appropriate. In itself, it is going back in time and it is taking on a mate to a microenergy donor who had actually cut off and was an ugly spot on our system at the time, making it possible for one party to work and the other in disability to become the latter to the other person's forward. The higher income the working partner had, the less money the disability pensioner obtained. For 40th. We want to remove paragraph 2 and paragraph 3, which says: ▪ When it comes to marriage, insurance agencies are permitted to collect information on the spouse's income and pay to the couple of the above ones if they could influence the sum of money. The same applies to the income of married couples who meet conditions for harmonization at the same time. 3 mg 62. g. a law on income taxes. If the applicant, the employee or the partner details from these sources are not correct, he should submit the data to confirm them. The National Insurance Agency must inform the relevant Member State of the proposed information Summit... At 41 st. explains the lack of information: If there is no right to make a decision about reform, money and payment, and their review as a result of lack of needed information, attributable to the applicant, creditees or his spouses, we would like to go out, his partner - ⇩er insurance agency is permitted to postpone the decision and payment until improvement is made. In case of postponement, if the person is to be notified, challenged to provide the necessary information and to appreciate the consequences of this, if the challenge to provide information is not met. It is hard to believe that it is placed in the hands of the person applying for disability benefits that a mate comes and informs about everything that has to do with the situation. We know that this could therefore be a divorce - and what then? In some cases, how can you force a mate and impair the rights of someone applying for disability? It's kind of sad, and I hope so much and fervently that this case will go all the way and those regulations will be taken out as suggested in the bill. When this case on social security law was submitted at the time and at the welfare committee, 15 comments were made. During the discussion, the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights and Peritoneal Protection, made some comments. We know that the Social Security Act is, in effect, a butt-stupid mess, and if it were to be properly packed, we'd have to create a new set of laws to try to take out all the traps and any bizarre impairments that have been inserted. We were working on the fact that these laws can be managed to reduce chain-way improvements and so much that people who may be able to obtain 100,000,200,000 bucks. Improvements must be paid not only for what they receive but also more; loss of not knowing that it would have been much easier for the individual to refuse to accept certain benefits. There must be something very serious that a system that is built up so that it can punish people for seeking justice and for seeking something that the Lawgiver has suggested to improve their lives and make them better. But when the person accepts it, it is the opposite. It causes financial damage. When these laws were given at the time, one of the things used to back them up was a fraud. As a result, they were asked together with a mate, and all sorts of frauds and numbers about cheating were frightening. It was then revealed that it was based on hard information, misinformed on Icelandic micro-energy pensioners, and at the end of that time the only betrayals that were found were those that were actually none of the business of disability pensioners. I'm telling you right now, taking out this evil in a law that's breaking people's rights, human rights and personal rights. We are under obligation to make sure that there is nothing in the law that can cause harm, and that can result in rights, personal rights, or human rights. While this authority is in the law to take the person's partner, the law has the authority to violate personal rights and human rights. Therefore, I hope that this case is well treated by a health committee and passed through the council. This is just one of the many things that have to be fixed in the social insurance laws and one step towards improving the law and not the last.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u84	A respectable president. I suppose it's an isolated case of this code, i.e. a change in the law of shopping with alcohol and tobacco, for as few halls as it is today, since most people have already given prime warnings about this law code, the speech of members of Congress has been great. This is probably because it is an innocent bill, as it were, it is not easy to free a liquor store, although it may be the point of the subject - but certainly not the viewpoint of all the carriers of the bill. This is a bill for a change in the law of a store containing alcohol and tobacco, No. 86/2011, and we are primarily talking about the location of alcohol stores. With me, I'll tell you what's going on. Councilmen Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Willum Thor Þór Þórsson. The bill is simple and clear. It reads: ▪ We'll talk 2. 10th par. The law adds: and agree with the local government on the location of shopping. The bill was already submitted to the last assembly, but it was not possible to recommend it. The bill suggests that the rural communities have access to local selection when opening new liquor stores. The government's alcohol and tobacco trade, ATVR, has thus far had full freedom to locate its stores without having to consult with the rest of the organization's own communities. It is known that rural communities have not always been satisfied with the location of the NTVR stores and even considered local selection to work against their planning and environment targets. For example, the park community has repeatedly complained that ATVR closed its shop in downtown Garville and then a few years later opened a new store in Copenhagen, but not in the downtown town of Garville, despite the clear wishes of the local community. The review of the Council of Environment and Organization of Reykjavík, March 2017, stated that the policy of the city's authorities was to promote commerce and services in an apartment area so that most people can apply themselves within their neighborhood and that distances will be reduced. In accordance with the opinion of the Council, a change in the arrangements for a store with alcohol could lead to an increase in shops and a more targeted location in the polls disappearing. The city's environment and planning area encouraged the legal basis for localisation of rural areas and the provision of stores to be trusted, whether by decommissionment or by change in the direction of the ATVR. In view of the repeated submission and failure to progress at the council, the local community is suggested to be a legal consultation with the selection of the location of alcohol stores to ensure that as many of the views as possible occur at the time of the selection. A respectable president. As I said earlier, it has been my opinion that although alcohol is no longer a traditional consumer, it is no longer necessary to be a public resident who runs a liquor camp, for example, there are a number of private parties, such as All around this house, which runs restaurants, restaurants, and other things, and sells wine. I've said I don't quite understand why private people can sell wine in glasses, but they need a state to sell wine in bottles or cans. But that's not what this bill is, a respectable president. Still, I had to share their views with them. I think it's important that our rural society is allowed to influence the location of shopping and that's a legal consultation with rural society. And there are many. In fact, the bill shows that the approval of a local government would be required to open the store and rural society either no or yes. It may also be helpful to bear in mind during the discussion that local communities and its elected representatives might wish that alcohol sales would not be part of their community. Then they should really be allowed to say no to it. But it may be primarily a matter of organizational matters and the respect of local planning. It can be important for nuclear activity and for the central community in many places where alcohol is sold, such as, for example. sales of medicine, grocery stores, restaurants, and so on. It is simply known that the ATVR has repeatedly sought to be close, e.g. Grocery stores. Food market development has been in place where companies have found themselves on the outside with larger shops and large trucks, making it necessary for people to travel in the private car and make a high - volume purchase, but in the organizational program, the rural communities often want to build up a central core where there is a easier access for people with active travelers, whether by bus, on foot, or by bicycle, and that these are so much more close to the population. This bill's going to work on it. I don't think I have to say any more about it, because it's a rather simple matter. So I request to a respected president that when a discussion of the matter ends, it be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee I understand has generally taken care of this code.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u85	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a synonym of the holiday house for the disability services of a donor. Transporters with me have a problem. The delegates of Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar son of Proppé, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. The suggestion itself is as follows: The General concluded to hide a social and child - care minister from making an assessment of the cost of installing holiday houses for micro-energy pensioners in local parts of Iceland. The labor movement's holiday houses should be especially viewed as exemplary. The work should be done in collaboration with the NGOs, local members and labour market members. The need, the scope, the cost, and the possible means of financing will be evaluated. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the report to the General no later than May 1, 2020. That is how the text of reasoning sounds. The motion - making article briefly reviews the great figures, so to speak, in the account that led to the formation of holiday buildings. In order to access this system, people need to be involved in a workforce, but it is important for disability as well as for those who are active in a labour market to be able to get away free from their homes and to enjoy outdoors, relaxation, hot pots, and all that we know from the summer farm system that has been built up in many countries and people have access to class unions. Of course, it is not merely the absence of a union that affects the fact that microenergy pensioners as well as disabled people cannot always benefit from these summer houses, designs, and access also have to be in the way that people with some form of motor inhibition can use their housing. That's one of the highest. A minister needs to consider and agree to the assessment of the cost of setting up holiday houses in action with this proposal. At the same time, microenergy pensioners are many, in fact, most people, in commercial groups of society, and therefore have more difficulty than many others have by renting holiday houses on a free market. Indeed, these homes exist here in Iceland, and the number of tourists in recent years has resulted in more renting on such homes. In my opinion, this is a small and modest proposal to make a decision that can, however, be attacked by this type of work and followed by setting up an vacation house for disability, changing the quality of life of disability workers and their families because this would increase their chances of changing to and taking time off with family and/or friends away from home. I think we all agree that getting to a cottage is part of our quality of life. Of course, we should have it so that everyone is available, not only to class members. And even if this issue does not alter the status of microenergy donors in other parts of society, it is one of the factors that are so important to improve the quality of life. We also need to bear in mind that while improving the individual's interests, providing circumstances that may be active in every aspect of society, people must also have the opportunity to enjoy vacation periods and to enjoy themselves. I hope this proposal has a positive sound foundation here at the Council. There are some things that just aren't known, e.g. how much it would cost to set up such vacation buildings. Although I know there is a need for holiday house, I don't know how many houses are needed. That is why the case is presented in the form of a synonym. I think it's important to start with that foundation of hiding the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Services to perform certain diagnostic work. I'm not gonna have any more words about this here. I hope that the case will be well supervised at the General Assembly and suggest that, after this discussion, a second discussion will be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u86	A respectable president. It may not have been in my mind to ask why. The senator's further into the motion. I only came up here to agree with her, and I'm glad she's out there. I think she's very kind and modest. The Senator proposes to assign the Minister of Social Affairs to make an assessment of the cost of installing holiday buildings, which I believe are a good start. As the senator considered, getting out of his daily environment for some time increases the quality of life and reduces stress. As the report shows, there are income groups that are very difficult to find, and even impossible, to rent a holiday house on a free market. One week costs tens of thousands, which are for a very large number of unjustified by normal household activities. So all I want to do is congratulate the members of the Parliament and accept the proposal. I hope she has a good career with the Committee and that we can handle this matter and this work will be started.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Arjörður of the Year's Árnadóttir for presenting this synopsis proposal for a holiday house for micro-organizing workers. When I became an invalid and fell out of the VR system, with vacation houses and everything, I felt very upset that I could no longer go to the holiday house, it felt very unfair. Fortunately, however, the men's affinity for VR at that time and by paying 1% of my income from the pension fund into the VR was granted me access to holiday houses. It was just great, and I used it to make good use of myself. Sadly, though, not everyone is so lucky, those people who are not involved in labor movements in any way do not fit into holiday buildings. But I would like to point out that large - minded communities have shown tremendous interest in these matters, one of which is self - preservation. They have a magnificent house in a smokeholti in a Bishop, recently renting out. It has the perfect facilities for motor disaster, a hot tub, in every way exemplary. But it was an animal, and unfortunately, it shows how expensive this can be done, had to rent the house in a public market in order to reach the cost. renting a house like that is not the worst, and you think about it. In order for partners in self - saving to rent the house, it would be most desirable for them to have a strong service system, that all could apply for the strength to go to the holiday house. There is usually no such thing for microenergy pensioners, and that is a sin and shame. If some are particularly benefiting from breaking up their life, it is a desperate pensioner, able to get into nature, make summer houses, and live a normal life like everyone else. Sadly, though, as it is today, it is not nor is it looked that it will be except for the State's arrival. And this isn't, I think, that big box for the state. We should be able to make sure that these individuals have a chance to take advantage of it. It also makes sense that while labor movements are available to many, not all of them have access to motor difficulties, so there are failures. As a result, not everyone can take advantage of this, even if they have the right. This means that there is a great lack of homes that are accessible in every way to people who are motorized so that they can use them. They should be able to take advantage of such homes without cost because all the expenses in this world are burdensome. Costs would have to be as small as possible. We could have the strengthening system so that people could apply for strength to take advantage of such houses once a year. That would be very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u88	A respectable president. I present a council proposal for the right of children to know its origin. I think it's the third time I've made the suggestion, and I hope she's getting paid over this council. Among those who are importers are Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzus, Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Ivvardótir. The scheme is as follows: ▪ The Council of Justice believes to hide the Minister of Justice to prepare a legal adjustment to ensure that children conceived by assisted reproductive technology and sex - cell donors have the right to information about their origin. The bill of this material will be submitted to the Council no later than January 2020 Here, children conceived with ART do not have the right to inform about the use of a donor or a donor's egg. Two. Section 4. eligibility of assisted reproduction techniques and the use of human sex cells and embryos for stem cell studies, No. 55/1996 is clearly stated that the wish of a person who made sex cells anonymously is required by healthcare professionals to ensure that this request will be respected. If so, do not give information about the sex cell donor who receives the sex cells or about the child or gives the couple information about the person who gave the sex cells. If not required, your child may ask for contact information about the sex cell donor. The rationale for allowing any anonymous sexual donor to be administered has, for example, been established. has it been that if anonymity was taken away, it would be less likely that sex cells would be used for assisted reproduction techniques, and those who needed the ministry would not have access to it because of insufficient supply. According to author William Arnason, from 2003 onward, the book Civility of Life and Death reveals that author Vilhjálmur Árnason, including The research in Sweden shows that although the first time a law required the child's right to know the name of donors, the number of donors has increased. Vilhjálmur also points out that the child's urgent interests must not be pushed aside just to correct a child's background and to relieve the suffering it may bring. As a result, the child may be used as a means to serve parental goals while ignoring the fact that he is an individual with independent rights and interests. Transporters believe that it is important that the rights of the person conceived by donor sex cells are placed in a foreground and guaranteed by law by an independent right to get information about their origin. By allowing an anonymous sexual donor, as is now being done, the right of an individual conceived in this way is violated. If he needs information about his background but is denied, he may experience intense anguish and distress. I'd like to add a little bit to what the report says. We live in a very small community in Iceland, and maybe it's not just about ethics, i.e. that your child is a human being, that your child becomes a natural adult. We are also discussing other things, Pravicics that are involved in knowing biological relationships, e.g. hereditary diseases. People need and want to know their family history to screen for various inherited diseases in order to improve their health and even save their lives. Thus, it is far more than mere ethical matter that children have this right. There is also the scene when a boy meets a girl, a girl meets a boy, and they think together. There may be a considerable chance that people in our small community will be related. The same sex - cell donor, although Danish, can produce several Icelandic sex - celled cells. This will increase the likelihood of having siblings in the community that do not know about one another. It's not good for anyone. I think we need to consider legislation on this matter. Twenty years ago, sex - cell transfusions were not that common in Iceland. There are always more and more people who use that way to have a baby because sterilization is increasing in us as other Western nations seems to be. People have more problems with such things. The lawgiver needs to put his arm around this suit. All of our neighbors, the ones we usually compare with, the northern countries, and the United Kingdom, I go on to do so more closely, have changed the law somewhat since then to meet these challenges. So it is time for us in small Iceland to work on making laws that cover the sex - cell donors and rights of children. But it says, so I continue with the report: It is also important to respect people's privacy and not force this information on individuals, and their need to approach them may be very different and in some case not present. It is desirable, therefore, that information about origins be accessible to people. What is meant by this is that people mentioned by a donor or a donor egg will not necessarily be allowed to change the law, a letter to their home, just uninvited when it becomes, for example. 18 years old, with some information on a biological parent. People need to ask for it themselves. It is always a reason if there is a need. A Swedish 2007 report on parents who have a child with assisted reproductive techniques explains whether a child's right to know its origin is guaranteed by the United Nations Children's Convention. The treaty was signed on behalf of Iceland in 1990 and validated in 1992. He was also legalized here on land by law No. 19/2013. It includes international recognition that children are a group that needs special protection beyond adults. The covenant includes acknowledging that children are independent of their rights, regardless of their adult rights. The covenant also includes a family that is the natural environment for the development and well - being of a child who will grow up in an environment of happiness, love, and understanding. It contains several principles that may include. to ensure freedom from discrimination, that what is best for a child should always be put first when governments take steps that concern children, the right of children to life and to maturity, and the right of children to express themselves. The covenant also includes the right of a child to be registered after birth, to receive a name, a state of state, and to know about his parents, and to take care of them. The Swedish report states that this right of a child to know about his parents was primarily involved in the treaty with adopted children to know about their genetic parents. However, it has now been considered whether the provision also includes the right of children to know their origin when they have been able to use assisted reproduction techniques and the assistance of sex - cell donors. That understanding, however, has not yet been placed in the arrangement, and it is not sufficiently widespread in the member states of the covenant to be confirmed. Mr. President. However, the neighboring countries of Iceland and the countries that Iceland would like to compare with them have been the means to provide children with this right or to clear up a very relevant set of rules. The above report also points out that in Article 8. The Treaty contains the rights of children in terms of self - image, i.e. right to maintain their identity as individual and hence Refer to family ties. It is important that the laws and rules are in accordance with Article 3. The covenant and the two showed that what is best for a child is in the foreground. In view of the psychological and social consequences that children may have in the absence of information about their origin, it is important to change the rules of children's access to that information and also ensure that there is no doubt that Icelandic law complies with the rules of the children's covenant. In Sweden it is strictly stated that children conceived with assisted reproductive techniques should be informed of their origin. Other neighboring countries have also taken similar steps. In fact, the evolution rate has been slow in Denmark, but until 2011, children there were not the right to be informed of their origin. However, this has been changed, and now individuals who have reached 18 years of age may receive information about sex - cell donors if they do not wish to be anonymous. In Finland the law was changed in 2006, saying that a child who is 18 years old has the right to learn about his background. In 2005 the law was converted into both Norway and Britain, and then those who give sex cells cannot require anonymous names. It is clear that at 18 years of age a child can be provided with information about his or her sex cell source. So we've become submarines, as I've been before. Mr. President. Swedish governments have published a comprehensive summary under the name Mismunandi ways to become a parent. The report discusses the overall trends and increased potential that have taken place in recent years to become a parent, including a parent. Because of increased technology, and the opinions presented in this series. This includes: For a summary of several studies, see how knowledge about biological origin affects the child later in life. From the above, it is evident that in many places the attempt has been made to make sex - cell donors anonymous, since it is considered important to ensure that a person's right to know his origin. It is necessary for Iceland to take the same step as raising its legislation on this matter. At the 148th legislature, this proposal was proposed on the welfare committee and the review of the case was positive and agreed with many of the above views. Personal Protection held the importance of keeping track of the law of No. 77/2000, on personal protection and treatment of personal data, now law No. 90/2018, on the basis of the proposal, about personal protection and processing of personal information. To create a bill in which individuals would be guaranteed the right to learn about their origin, it is important to look to the experience of the law of our neighbors. The above reference is to Swedish law, and the movers stress that there is special attention to that legal counsel at work. Many things have also been written in this area, and many experts have taken care of the matter. Thus, during the bill work, it is proper to consult medical, ethical, psychological, legal, and human rights at the same time. It is not particularly suggested that a minister should start a team to win the bill, but it puts in his mind which route will be taken, as well as the idea that an expert or specialist will be assigned to work on the bill, but they can then seek out other experts as necessary and in line with the above. As I mentioned earlier, we do not have to look far beyond our limit, since our closest colleagues have taken these steps and have legal legislation on this. So you could search there and adopt such laws, perhaps with some adjustments. It should not take long if this is where you want to be. Mr. President. Since this is an important matter of rights, it is suggested that Ministers submit no later to the Council than in January 2020. The time should be sufficient for the process. As I said before, I hope that the members and members of the committee agree with these ideas, and most of the time they agree with me so that we can do this work on legislation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u89	A respectable president. I recommend a bill submitted by the Western Council's Iceland Department. The bill represents a change in the law of temporary reimbursement for film making. It's pretty simple, and it's going to be 2nd. 2.g. The words of the law are added to Greenland and the Faeroe Islands and to the following words to the 5th issue of 2 mg. Section 5. Let's see the law. Let's get the Greenlands and the Faeroe Islands to show up. Our excellent laws on temporary reimbursement of films that most people should be aware of have caused moviemakers to ask for a reimbursement equivalent to 25% of the cost of production due to films or TVs in this country. It has also been opened to the fact that part of the cost could fall outside Iceland, i.e. In the European Economic Area. Our dear friends in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland are not in the EEA, although we may just want to welcome them to that cooperation, which means that when Icelandic filmmakers have visited our neighboring countries, they have not been able to make that amount of money for our reimbursement. I would especially like to thank Hrafn Jökulsson for drawing the attention of us members of the Parliament on this matter. He is a great friend of Greenland, and to him, people who have been there for film filming may have been able to make changes. A respectable president. I haven't made it my habit to read a paper with bills, but this one is short enough that I'm going to go for a big crack in it. The case was previously given in 149, a legislature, but it did not succeed. As I said before, it's moved by Iceland's Councilmen at the Western Council and we're having a hard time sitting with them. Egilsdóttir But in view of her absence in preparing this matter, her deputy in charge stands still. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, to transport. It is possible to reimburse 25% of the production costs due to films or televisions in this country. National as well as foreign people can apply for this reimbursement. If more than 80% of the total production cost of the project fell to this country, 25% of the production costs in the European Economic Areas are reimbursed and we want to add the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. As the law shows, it is temporarily in effect, in the title of the law, there is talk of temporary reimbursement, and it was set in time to encourage and activate this sector. In this regard, there are a number of countries with comparable reimbursement and encouragement, and this is about the competitiveness of the country. Time has been extended twice. The law now applies in 2021, and I hope that we will succeed in extending it even more in due time. The reimbursement of the law is a key requirement for foreign people to engage in film projects here. The film projects produced in Iceland receive 25% reimbursement will fall under law to meet certain conditions. It also helps companies in such a way as to seek cooperation with foreign organisations. Up to a quarter of all production costs within the European Economic Area are reimbursed, provided 80% of the total production costs fall to Iceland. Of course, we in the Western Council's Iceland are very concerned about our friends in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, and I think that there is evidence that there is a need for support there, and no doubt this would benefit them, much less than those in the United States filmmakers. Now, according to our sources, Icelandic filmmakers are afraid to go to the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, but because of their presence, there is a lot of opportunity, and I'm particularly going to mention Greenland on that subject. In particular, the request to open up some of the movies or television programs in Greenland was suggested. Of course, Iceland is a northern kingdom like Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands, if that's what they're changing. I believe there is considerable opportunity for our marketing as even more a northern kingdom. As far as we know, filmmaking in these two countries has not come as far as Icelandic filmmaking has been, and in recent years it has been an enormously progressive development and perhaps a decade. By the end of 2015, the current industrial and commercial minister presented a report on the economic effects of filmmaking in Iceland with special emphasis on regional effects. This was at the council request. The report reports that the support of public films was mainly twofold, sponsoring a film fund and reimbursement of part of the cost of film making in Iceland. It also shows that refunds are strengthened to the article that improves its relative status beyond articles that do not have support. If only a direct effect is considered, taxes on film production are equal to paying for expenses. The report also says that if funded, direct taxes on film production are lower than government grants. Later, the report lists three main groups of the reimbursement system. First, the aim is to promote the growth of national culture and the presentation of national history and nature, second to attract foreign parties to the production of films and TVs on the land, and third, to promote the knowledge and experience of the natural filmmakers involved in more, larger, and varied projects. The report also shows that these goals have been achieved and that there are ways to strengthen the filmmaking system in Iceland that is simple and beneficial in comparison with the arrangements in other countries. This bill suggests that the same reimbursement rules apply to the production costs in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands as in the EU Member States. Some of these remunerations have been criticized, so I wanted to mention that I was attending a very large meeting in Darp today that discussed the situation of traveling. As we all know, the analysis department of the Land Bank has suffered a significant shock at the fall of WOW. In spite of this, tourism has made sense, tourists have stayed in Iceland and spent more money, both in their home money and also in their Icelandic dollars, so it is not just the crew of the crown that plays in. Although there is no reason to speak down the shock that the WOW suffered for travel, it seems that the tourism service is working well. However, it stated that the collective agreements were equally relevant to survival in this article. In particular, an economist who examined the figures mentioned that when they look into the future, they look at the fact that foreign people are taking up films in this country, and that is why they expect more tourists to be involved. I think we're seeing everywhere the economic effects are. It is an indirect advertisement or a direct advertisement when films are recorded here. It affects not only the sector but also the tourism. I think it's an improvement in the law if we open the door for our moviemakers to cross over to Greenland and the Faeroe Islands if they have a chance there. This, too, may further increase our cooperation with our good neighbors in view of culture and what we have in common. I think I can claim that we in the Western Institute of Iceland have several opportunities to do so. This is what I would like to say after this discussion, the matter is being treated at the moment. A professional committee I sincerely hope to handle the matter fairly quickly and safely. It'll be fun for us in the Iceland Department to go to Greenland by the end of October, where the main meeting is planned and can report that we have recommended this matter. I hope there's also some reviews on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u90	Mr. President. For this cause, I love to step in the public assembly today, giving a speech, not very long, for this occasion. It's a big deal, and I love it as the president of Iceland's Western Council to draw special attention to it and thank a messenger for sitting so hard as to recommend it again. It matters, Iceland is in the unique position of perhaps being the big brother in this cooperation with the Western states. We have a lot to give here, and we have experience with the arrangement on this matter. The 1999 film reimbursement Act is from 1999 but has taken some changes and has been updated since then. We've had experience with this since then. The movie sector and moviemakers think it's important. Foreign movie producers watch this, even choosing to film countries or movie places with this in mind. This often makes a difference to or from one percent in the reimbursement. This is a substantial amount of money - hundreds of millions of dollars that the United States has been repaying because of a number of foreign films. They often run on dozens, but even more Icelandic movies actually enjoy it. Moviemakers believe it is and at the time was a complete vitamin injection into this sector. With regard to our fine cousins Greenlands and Faeroetes, there is growth in the trade, especially among young people. Movies have healed. Entries set up two years ago a movie center, the Film House, and it's designed to invest in local filmmaking, promote foreign investments in movies, and market the Faeroe Islands as the scene of filmmaking. Entries have given some money to this project, and it seems already to bear fruit, since James Bond is now taking a movie in part in the Faeroe Islands as an example. This may be why they set up their movie center to promote this aspect. It's the young people who are doing it. The Faeroe Islands are not a large nation, approx. Fifty thousand people, and there's only one manufacturing company on film and one TV station, and then they have a teaching center in moviemaking, cutters. They aim to strengthen the interiors of the movie industry and filmmaking and to promote these articles in their own lives. I think this could be a lift line for skilled filmmakers, since creating one film is a complex task. There's a lot of technology and equipment, and we can help, and they're gonna benefit. Greenlanders do not have long film stories, since the first film was made in 2008. This art form is becoming popular, and the young generation promotes this article in Greenland. The film festival Greenland Eyes, which is the scene of green filmmaking, has given rise to these issues. A respectable president. I'm not going to keep it all this far, but I'm hoping that the bill will be handled well with this appendix and that we'll be able to handle it properly and rapidly because it's both financial and cultural. There is also a financial point for Icelanders to do this and a professional feature for moviemakers. So I don't have this anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-26-11.u91	A respectable president. It is fun to participate in this discussion, which is enjoyable in many respects, where we, the Western nations, continue to bind stronger bonds. Movies and television shows have great potential, and what Iceland did back in her day, offering reimbursement, have made a big difference in drawing into the land of films that have called attention to land and country. It may be difficult to assess economically how much it has delivered us in the box, but those who know best believe that it has yielded much more to taxes than to reimburse the total cost, 25% of production costs. This is therefore the benefit to both parties. Draging into this form of our friends people, the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlandians, and that some of the projects taken here on the country's condition, in the Faeroe Islands and in the Greenlands as well as in the other EEA countries, are of great benefit to us personally and to these nations. This calls for a favorable attention to the land and the history of these nations and opportunities, and it is also an injection into their economy. North lands are getting a lot of attention, as we know, and the Western countries are also in the spotlight. I think it's a great opportunity for some creative filmmakers to link these three countries with their unique culture, whether in TV shows or in movies. It's someone else's making and thinking it up. I think there'll be a great incentive for us to pick up materials in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands while doing such projects in the country. We know the cooperation of television stations in the North countries in all kinds of shows, TV shows and documentarys. Norse shows have been popular, and we know TV shows and gangs and all kinds of series that have become very popular and that I think they're actually in fashion, so that the lights are in Western lands. I don't think it's going to be a lot of money for the Greenlandians and the Faeroes to be inside this movie, but for us as well. I look forward to getting it into a professional committee where I am chairman and I am also in the Western Institute of Iceland. I will do my part to speed up the effort it made in a careful manner, and I know that I will get support from all angles to do so.
