ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u1	A respectable president. The Icelandic pension system is a giant in whatever way it is viewed, a real Goliath in Lilliput. There, employees have astute financial resources that are traveling all over the world, on books, in letters, banks, and businesses, everywhere where the thinkers of 20 pensions pretend to get them on the job as it is. Pension funds now hold 5,000 billion dollars. If you can read Moggin's cover story today. The amount has been growing by 3 billion a month, and this will continue if we do not experience any unexpected events. That's a big deal if. However, they have produced fruitage altogether. According to a 2018 report, the average growth of the Icelandic pension fund was up to six times that of the previous year, with a number of genetic deficiencys. According to engineer Hallgrímur Óskarsson, the risk balance of the funds is part of the explanation. Why am I bringing this up, a respectable president? That's because the pension system in Iceland is celebrating a major milestone this year because it's exactly 100 years since the country's oldest pension fund, the Department of Pension of the State, was founded by law No. 72/1919 at the end of November that year, something else was named then. He was for officials who quit work because of old age or poor health, but thus he received a pension. Many waters have flowed to the sea since then, and in that case it will likely remain. We've been introduced, a respectable president, to trust the pension fund, to pay a pension fund all our days, guarantees us a fine reward in our old age. This point is debated, as is the combination of social insurance and pension funds, and we often hear a heated discussion of premature and unjust declines. The writer of the above noted that it is necessary for all of Iceland's pensions to increase transparency, increase public discussion, give more discipline and more pension. [[The president calls.]] Let us keep on the watch, subject more often to the discussion of such immense interests at the Council, as well as in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u2	Mr. President. In 1989, a international financial group, often FAFF, or the Finincial Action Force, was established in France, and Iceland became a member of that group in 1991. One of the main objectives of the group is to contribute to the efficient implementation of legislation, regulations, and measures to combat financial resources, terrorist funding, and other related threats to the stability of the global financial system. The authority of this group or association actually comes from only the commitments made by Member States themselves. This will be done when applying for membership, which involves accepting the recommendations and methodologies of the group, undergoing reviews, and providing follow-up reports for them, and otherwise actively participating in the work of the Community. Mr. President. It is fun to say that Iceland has not lived up to its commitments. As a result, Iceland has been put on a gray list that includes a warning to other countries that legislation here and its implementation is not considered sufficient. Iceland is the only EEA that's been on that list. To be on this gray list is an opinion of Iceland and the outside world, but as far as the rest of us are concerned, the situation is exposed to serious offenses in our own administration and politics. As a result of this, the General Board of Directors and Commission has taken an active look at how this may have been done so badly. The Justice and finance Department has published a report on the subject, and it is the least of all a series of entertainment readings. [[The president calls.]] As far as it goes, she shows black in white that Iceland did not care for her duties that were still clear and should be the ones responsible for the perfectly light. [[The president calls.]] The report provides good reason to look into the matter further, to analyze what went wrong, and why. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u3	I'll ask senators to check their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u4	Mr. President. Since the Adventist has now begun, I'd like to ask people to consider six things: 1st The same time Iceland's Red Cross gives us reason to run a special fund called the Sálvet, a paper account in Iceland says that a luxury car sale in Iceland is equivalent to an oil state. 2. At the same time one developer goes out with 22,000 million. K. In my pocket, because of the use of the nation's common resource, all the government groups turn down a proposal that costs the same thing but would have ensured that no senior citizen would be left under the minimum wage. 3. At the same time, another contractor is making more money in one year, alone, than what the entire nation receives in the fishing budget. 4. At the same time that one couple sells their shares in an insurance company for 1,600 million. K. live 70% micromanagers below 300,000 k. 5. At the same time as 1% of the richest Icelanders have more possessions than 80% of the population of Iceland, there are some 6,000 children living in poverty. 6th At the same time as it is put in special custody at the Land Hospital, nursing homes, and school in government funds, this same government puts the same government on the left green forwarding party and the Independence Party on the particular priority of lowering bank taxes, reducing genetic taxes, reducing fishing expenditures, and lowering the label charges of those who buy large ships. Mr. President. Do not all see the injustice in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u5	A respectable president. About half an hour ago, the highest was set. The Minister of Justice for a press conference that reported the end of the State Marshal. On the same occasion, the minister announced his plan to have a bill written in order to increase police surveillance. This is very positive news. Then began a description of matters of opinion that could be taken directly from the careful Parliamentary decision made by Porta on the threshing floor. 7 Regarding the independent surveillance of police operations and practices; opinions such as research warrants that such an independent agency would most likely have, its role, and the possible link to the General Assembly, and so on. Although it may have taken a lot of time to do so, Pirantar rejoices over it every time a minister takes up a good cause, although some Pirats may at times get tired of waiting, but we have had strong faith in the fact that there can be an informed discussion, even if it takes time. But like the Independence Party, when it comes to matters involving freedom and civil rights, one thing first needs to be considered and to consider another and to take a careful step to the earth. Although the minister evidently began to consider things that Piratar considered and decided many years ago, it is better late than never. That's what I want to say to the highest. Minister of Justice would benefit from the fine work of increasing police operations and practices. In the light of words, why? However, a member of the Independence Party here yesterday was shocked that not all panels had proposed a judicial opinion on a particular matter that included a vote, it may be asked whether an independent person would not do himself well and would submit a committee's opinion on a number of issues that may be found on Porta's case at the council. There are some things to be found that would be fun, even beneficial, to get the independent opinion of the committee to consider a matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u6	A respectable president. I intend to rejoice in the good works of the government, which celebrates its two - year anniversary in those days. There are many kinds of crops. I can tell you that climate has never been more involved than now, the climate fund is funded and applications are open. Gestures have been dropped by older ones and microfarms. There have been increased dental donations. The number of nurses has increased greatly. Support to the elderly has been strengthened and 4 billion each year are being put in order to reduce the loss of pension. I also mention the support of health services in the country, improved mental - health services, and tax reforms that benefit all underpayers. For example, young people, each carrying a $3 60,000 bill. For the provision of two children, an additional four hundred and eighty thousand will be provided. in 2021. It takes less than that. Large - scale funds have been spent on social facilities, which certainly are useful for low - paying employees, and this would continue to be counted, child support, a new three - step tax system. This is a long way from a complete list and is still working on the support of the welfare system to improve the equation and the welfare. In the two years, much has been accomplished. We are just starting, and we want to do even better, as financialism shows. But this can be a source of joy. The government is very supportive, as was shown yesterday's survey, about half the population supports the government, and VG is on the rise which I am very happy about, and I know you can be happy with me. I see members of the United States do and nod. It is a very good news in this Lord's day. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[To the point: This is wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u7	A respectable president. There are things you can say about the work of the government. I may prefer them to sweep floors, it's natural to sweep the floor from time to time, it's not much more important than that. The newspaper newsmagazine published this article. By Kári Stefánsson. She may describe a case that would really have to work better, a case that has been in trouble for a long time and that has not been done. It refers to the report of the Department of Prices of Macroils in Iceland and Norway, showing a 227% higher price for mackerel, a country in Norway compared to Iceland. Three hundred percent difference in 2018. The consequences are serious for sailors, rural areas, and for the entire population. There is always talk of the sustainableness of the Icelandic seabed and how it is not official and stuff like that, but sources are still given. Then there are the examples of this difference of prices: What is it but a source of strength? Despite all these indications, nothing is done. Time and again, as shown in Stefánsson's article, which Kári as a source of encouragement to me, with the permission of a president: ▪... must examine this into the basement [...] The General must make sure that it is done quickly and honestly. This isn't a new clue. We've seen this for years, but nothing has been done. It describes, if anything, the inactivity of governments over the past few years. A respectable president. It is not even sweeping the floor when it comes to this, forgotten to go to the corners, most important places, where all the dust accumulates and is allowed to accumulate and collect at the expense of all of us. [[Hoist to the top of the floor. Everybody to sweep the floor.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u8	A respectable president. When I'm sweeping the floor, I always feel like I need a job. But I didn't mean to talk about it. On Friday, the Office published a report on the employment income of 2008◯2018 according to national parts. It states that the pay of fish farms on the Vestafjörður released some 1 billion dollars. Last year and about one third of all fish farms fell on Western soil. The majority of fish farming in the country is the largest in the quarter. New numbers from The Habitat also show that in today's economy much of the defensive. During the past few years, growth has occurred primarily in Western Europe in a marine farm, and it is predictable that in the coming years, there will continue to be a major rise in the salmon fire there. It can be assumed that in a few years fish can become a major part of economic activity on the West. In spring, there was an agreement on fish farming here at the General Assembly. One of the most important changes by bill is legalisation of the Agency's ability to evaluate the number of farmers in rivers and to provide advice based on evaluations called risk assessment. Two years ago, the Oceanographic Institute opened a meeting west where the new estimate for Isafjörður was promised and before the sun was the closest to the sun. Since then, the earth has traveled around the sun one and a half laps. The legislation states that the HMS centre will issue a new risk assessment as soon as possible and that no prior counter-to-treat measures will be taken into account. Only a brief period of 2019 years remains and is not yet included in an updated risk assessment. A respectable president. Associations in the West, especially in the Isafjörður, and in the East, wait for an updated risk assessment, and I want to encourage the Marine Research Institute to enforce the law and provide an updated risk assessment as soon as possible so that fish farming can continue to be built together with nature and to improve communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u9	Mr. President. A few days ago, we were right. Ásmundur Friðriksson and the Guðjón, together with five members of the council from all groups other than ours, presented three Parliamentary guidelines on the affairs of older people. The suggestions are on aging prevention, the termination of age-related work orders, and the assessment of health-related prevention of older people. You see, the subject of older people is not given much publicity here in the Generals' sales, and we were tempted as a community to forget how much money there is in older people, how much experience and knowledge this group is, and how much it means for us as a community to cultivate this group, to make up for survival, rehabilitation, and so on. We tend to forget the importance of allowing this group to make personal decisions, career decisions, and retirement decisions without the actual intervention of the lawgiver in an indiscriminate way that the individual has become too old, poor, etc. You see, prejudices against older people are not always obvious. They are not always there. But as a community, we should try as alive as we can avoid daily aging prejudices and try rather to view older people as the resources they really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u10	A respectable president. We'll talk about it at the kitchen table, we'll talk about it at work. We'll talk about it all over the place. Is there corruption? Can we get the full price for the catch? Is Your Weight Swinded? Why is it that things are the way they are? But there's one who puts it on paper and I read it this morning, that's Kári Stefánsson. He naturally puts it all in foie grass, as it goes. We must go to the ground with care. But this is what we generally talk about, so now is the best time to let it wander. He says: Last year, the average price given for the Icelandic mackerel was 65% lower than for the Norwegian. In other words, it was an excellent opportunity for this foreign company to own an Icelandic factory to continue selling the mackerel. Icelandic companies tend to own companies abroad and sell themselves the catch here at a rate up to 30% lower than the global market price on a mackerel. But I'd like to know what they're selling him away, their companies in foreign lands. It says here, and I'll direct you to the article, allowing the president: ▪ If the above statements are correct, the consequences are the result of what has been involved in stealing, tax fraud, and money laundering: 1st Seamen who caught the mackerel were their runts, so much so. In a way, it could be reasoned that the makings were stolen from that large fortune. 2. The fishing industry not only stole money from the sailors but also stole the local communities, where they paid their public expenses. 3. Instead of paying ports in line with the true value of the wealth, the rural society went away. 4. As a result, foreign companions gave some of their income and therefore did not pay from that tax. 5. The fishing was done through the money laws that belonged to them abroad. The funds were used to hide income from taxes. Now I don't know if it's like this. Anyway. However, the report of the market suggests that this may be the case. [[The president calls.]] All I'm saying is that it's time for us here at the High General, the Lawgiver himself, to pull up our pants and start handling these matters that the whole nation knows may have been with a nation for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u11	A respectable president. Now in January, the end of the Chairmanship of the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Council will come. So I don't feel like coming up here and describing only the factors I have expected to have participated in this work and in my work as the chairman of this important committee in the European Council. First, I'd like to mention a general report belonging to my committee and a report written on the murder of Daphne Pieter Omtzigt, a researcher from Malta, and a Dutch senator who has worked hard on the Dutch authorities to investigate the murder of Daphne and to reveal the right thing to do when it came to it. We have seen that this pressure, along with pressure from the European Union, has caused us to see the sun in revealing that terrible matter. I'd like to make it clear that with a what? paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornfjörðurdóttir prevents us from getting roads and respect in the European Parliament, receiving a triennial teaching, and thus acknowledging the European Council's policy of conforming to the European Council's values, which is, of course, a total nonsense. I produced a report against sexual harassment and violence in the U.S. Congress. I will be able to change the Council of the Council of Europe's Congress that there will be a strict prohibition against sexual harassment within the council. I am completing a report on political prisoners in Azerbaijan, something that has taken a considerable effort to finish, and what I am perhaps the most satisfied of all, a respectable president, is that I made it possible that now the committees are very aware of it, when they invite specialists to a meeting of the Committee, to ask specifically for the consideration of gender principles. So it is that we, in the past, see simply men in pantel to inform us about their expertise. The Panels have become considerably more diverse. Everything is possible with good will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u12	A respectable president. It's been good for me to think a gypsy is the best. This is appropriate when we refer to the construction of transport workers. Recently, the mayor and secretary of transportation signed an agreement that can be understood in two ways by good will. Airfield surveys will continue to be carried out in the Hagsun, and the future of the Watermelon airport is guaranteed at least the next two decades. This agreement seems to have gone upside down to some, and it appears that further development at other airports, such as In Akureyri, you'd be knocked off. But there's no such thing. A powerful internal flight is an important structure, and one of the keys to community equality. In addition to maintaining international airports, the situation of the people needs to be balanced. The way to explain is an important step in that direction. Air traffic costs are high, compared with international flights. The frequency of flights is not always convenient and effective. Government support has been effective in dealing with this problem in Scotland and is intended to implement it here in the latter part of the next year. The next step regarding the Akureyri Airport is to develop ways of implementing funding sources for the enlargement of the air base and implementing its operations so that it will be useful to the settlements and governments' aims for a new portal into the country. Together, let's finish what has been started, e.g. Like the sound of a flight at the Akureyri Airport. The interiors of northern Europe are present, and more than ready to welcome foreign visitors who want to stay with us and enjoy what the famous beauty and the palaces of Northeast America have to offer. A broad teamwork is a key to success in these materials. A respectable president. As is often said in Mistleck: Longing jacket is the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u13	You see, it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u14	Mr. President. Family violence is a social ill. It comes with shame, fear, and grief. Violence is usually well hidden, and violence thrives in silence. The damage caused by violence is not only serious but it is traveling with people from generation to generation. But why am I talking about this today, and why here at the General Hall? These are all known facts, aren't they? I'm talking about this right now because we, the lawgiver, can improve the system so that it'll make people better than it is now. I made a council proposal some time ago, along with other members of Congress. The idea with it is that the system prefers to control victims of violence more and more, taking them seriously. The proposal includes the order of the General Minister of Justice to set up a group of staff who offer proposals for improved domestic violence practices between local community services, health institutions, schools and police services. The task force is also to shape the proposals for the missing legal rights, which are now urgent, for the provision of information on domestic violence between the same parties and the establishment of a government field of cooperation. The minister then introduces the results of the staff to the General Assembly in June 2020. The sufferers of domestic violence often hold back from reporting the violence to the police. In smaller rural areas where most people know one another, it may be equally difficult to report domestic violence. Therefore, it is important that governments who work closely with the inhabitants have broad authority to take the initiative to intervene and cooperate with other governments on how to react to such offenses. All agreements between institutions of society need to take place by participation and consenting to violations. The Parliament's agenda has not yet been established, but reviews have been received and all very positive. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can do this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to make a subject of a new signed agreement. The secretary of transportation and the head of the county and the mayor of Reykjavík from November 28th. The agreement stipulates the possibility to build and run a reserve airport that would serve domestic flights as well as private, exercise and teaching flights that match the results of this year's management team of the Ministry of Transport for airports in southwestern. What provokes my interest or interest in the reading of the agreement is the basis for the principle, specifically 2 mg. 2. par., which says, by permission of the President: A projection of the new airport in the Washasse compared to the existing airport in the southwest corner. According to a footnote, the rate of innovation is the proportion of days estimated that the airport will be open on a yearly basis. I think of this definition, which is new, and as far as I know it, it is not supported by law or, less importantly, Regulation 4.6.4 of 2007 for an airport based on Annex 14 of the ICAO. It provides a practical index, which is another word, which should be 95% per year based on the number and direction of runways and wind. This is not an unexplained percentage of days compared to any other airport. It is remarkable and surprising that the preparation of the contract that may be committed to the State to tens of millions of dollars should not be considered more carefully. The action, if it is certain, will cost 393/44 billion if the report is determined, but 300 billion if the airport is to be involved in international flights as well. If that route was selected, then there are countless costs that would result from building a special airport for personal, exercise, and teaching flights. There is also the cost of building in Keflavík, and it is not likely that this will be the cost of a total of between 300 and 5,500 billion. Clearly, a case here is coming, which will come to the treatment of the council over the next year, which could lead to the decision to make the greatest possible performance in the history of the nation. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid that with the signing of this agreement, people may not have the same understanding of the matter, but time will reveal whether it will be on top but, at all, a sound and a picture won't go together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u16	A respectable president. The fact now is that the State Radio has progressively and hopefully deliberately broken the law for two years. As a result, in their report on the State News the other day, the government's decision was final. The Government Board launched a shocking plan to say that the Agency had to wait for this result for 24 months to determine whether or not it should be legal. A public review immediately answered: There was nothing to wait for us. From the beginning, there has been conclusive evidence that this law was being carried on by the State Radio. The last thing that happens is that when the State Radio advertises the state of the radio director, it informs them of their decision to keep the secret names of candidates. If it's not exactly a violation of the information code to follow, it's at least a violation of the personal understanding of information laws and a declaration of policy as until yesterday, was found on the website of RUS. What did RUSB do when it was pointed out in the media yesterday? So did it change the wrong decision that it made, in view of its own understanding and the declaration of its own policy? No, the Declaration was reviewed on the Web site as well as on that understanding, but the wrong decision was made. This repeated failure and incapacity on the part of the government of the state radio creates distrust. For this reason, I consider the Management Board to be subject to the issue of whether it should take place in the light of the situation. I don't trust her to decide to hire a new radio manager for all this skycrowding inadequacy and trouble. If she does not choose to do this, it is a subject for the Minister of Education whether he should be offered to shareholders and to replace the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u17	A respectable president. During this week, governments from all over the world gather in Madrid to discuss climate. Even if we are not short of talks and publications, we are not sure how much we can find out how to plan and how to do things. This is made clear in a report published by the United Nations Environment Agency for the past week. By permission of the President, Emissions Gap Report, this report presents a black - and - white expression of ambition in word and table. If combined, the commitments and plans made by the government following the Paris Treaty are moving toward a global warming of 3.2 °C. This is far from the target 1.5 to 2°C. Greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by an average of 7.6% per year to 2030 in order to prevent global warming of more than 1.5 °C. However, a decade ago it would have been enough to reduce emissions by 3.3% annually. This is the cost of delaying necessary action. They get more painful. This assessment of the Agency will then consider the situation in this country. The climate management programme, as far as it goes, is neither quantitative nor costly. The second consecutive year represents a transport program that has not been determined by the impacts on climate. This needs to be corrected. This also raises the question of whether an independent party needs to exaggerate the ambitions of the government on climate, just as financial advisers review each year's financial agenda, since they need to ensure that the ambition of the government of each government is not only in word but also on table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u18	Mr. President. When organizations are united, consultations with employees are very important and that there is as much agreement among employees regarding the unity. The transition, however long, is important, and it is relevant if the results are met. Exactly this is what we lack of, together with the Customer's office and the government tax manager's office, so we in the United States can't support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u19	Mr. President. This case is unworked and poorly prepared. There has been no waste of what has happened in neighboring countries where similar unity has taken place and there has been no consultation with the profession to carry out the work. This isn't nice. That's not good. This unit should take effect after 27 days. 27 days, Mr. President. It tells itself that you don't force people to cooperate in such a way at such times, so unfortunately, you can't accept this situation as it is available. Middleclass and I are eager to squeeze the baloney together. But when people do this, you can't overlook the fact that it's crazy, and I predict that this case will come back to Generals in a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u20	Mr. President. Although this matter may have been better handled, we are supported by restoration. As we have discussed in this discussion, there are some things that can be stated in preparing this matter, but it is urgent that public interest is under attack. This is an example of such a situation. We still have over 160 government agencies that are way too much. The majority of them have ten or fewer workers, and we have repeatedly seen evidence that such institutions are exceptionally adverse and expensive. Therefore, I strongly encourage the government to go further than, of course, careful preparation. There may be one thing in this particular situation that should especially be kept in mind. When it comes to such large unity, capitalization is simply too low the initial dose to ensure that the integration produces the desired results. That's what I'm most afraid of in this, but we support this whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u21	V.E.G. President. This is good. It's very important to reduce the number of institutions. There's no need to have one special agency here to collect public fees. A great deal of study was made, and a great deal of preparation was made for this matter. There's really no disagreement on the subject. There's nobody against it, not even the customs manager's employees, so that's just the best. Of course, it will be this way, as with all others, when government institutions are united, that there will be a challenge, and there is no reason to be successful in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u22	A respectable president. If I'd known what to do. paritaprevir Begs of Níelsson's son would have been asking the word if I had been able to let it go, for I was going to say the same things he said. You see, it's a good thing. The office of the head of the tax and toll managers is here spoken of as being united, and the workspace of the EICs will be operated in a single institution called the Tax and State Taxes manager. The bill has a considerable background in which a special consultation group, or committee, was involved and that the work was done by all the shepherds, so that the debate here that it is ill - prepared and bad, is not valid. Besides, I find it very interesting to hear that the Central Party talks a lot about the world's institutions, but just not when it's suggested here in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u23	President. I hope I can ease some of my worries. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. True, this case has a good purpose, as he is described, but there is a lot in what representatives of the government have said before me. There have been serious comments on how this case was handled, including the following: contact with employees. There is therefore one thing that is unproved, especially as noted, to try to learn from the experience in Denmark, where there was comparable harmony and did not exactly work out. We could have learned something from it. But because the purpose of the matter is good and important, we will not compromise that the matter continues, and I will support the continuation of the case after 2nd. But I hope that it will succeed on the Committee as an option to resolve the issues of opinion that have come up in preparation, and the only thing to consider is, in particular, that, here, is creating an enormously powerful institution, that men fit at the same time at the city's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u24	Mr. President. This case isn't my case, and I haven't watched very closely, but I've listened to people discuss it, and it turns out that two organizations are being united, so another man must fall out. Which one is it? It is interesting to consider this in the light of history, as happened with a Contestant institution back then: She was cut apart, came out, and replaced by directors; as was done in National Organization: she was not comfortable, dropped. There are many stories about it in Icelandic society. The police officers were not obedient enough in their time, and the State Marshal's office was established above them. This is what I've been hearing all my time, whenever new circumstances are being created, united, or torn apart, and then changed to the top of the world, I just want to point the people on and those who know better than I do on this particular point: watch out for what falls. Is there any political in there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u25	Mr. President. It's all right here. These two institutions are increasing their stroke intensity by uniting them together, and I believe that issues will be better placed in one strong institution, though independence required by institutions and subsidiaries to do their work. The left green will vote with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u26	A respectable president. I'm glad this case is becoming a law, that it's only about how we've been doing personal information in Iceland. I feel that there was a need for foreigners in the European Union to get a personal protection law that would force us to pay our pants only on these matters and make the improvements that have been done here today. That's what I hope they will be in the future. In my opinion, a national file is used both too much, its information is shared too much, and not for good enough, so I hope that as time goes on, people will come to realize the more and more in Iceland that as useful as the national file, it will be useful both for objective and nonverbal interference. The balance there will never be complete and it can be better if it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u27	Mr. President. This case may have been followed again at 2 Timothy 3: 1. A lot of surprises, and that is why this could not be discussed with the discussion that would have been a compelling reason. That's why I've been saying goodbye to the 3rd. ... aboutit. The matter has entered the council because of problems in the administration system. The prime minister does not trust himself to continue the procedure that she had started and now brings the matter into the council, and he wants the council to take responsibility for it on its own. In itself, this could be achieved and shared with the highest degree. The prime minister is to handle the situation this way if there was hope for it to be completed in that way. But there is no danger of doing so because there is still a lawsuit and there is a lawsuit in this case. When disagreements arise, the best thing to do is to bring them to justice. As painful and prolonged as this case has been, at least the people here feel that it needs to be finished with someone decent. There needs to be some end of this. This is not to say that we agree today. That won't be so, Mr. President. I encourage the general council members who have not already read a letter that referred to the issue before the 2nd issue. from three of four men who sat innocent for 105 days in solitary confinement to read it. They in themselves can't say anything about this bill. There is also no thought, though it does not belong in this bill, I know it well, and neither has there been any debate over the suffering and misdeeds of the families of Geirfinnur Einarsson and Guðmundur Einarsson in this case, since they have not been seen for 45 years and therefore must be counted as the true victims in this matter. Their families and personal life have been brought to light in order to sell magazines and to produce programs that are inert and embarrassing. What may be the worst of this issue today is that it is being taken out of the hands of the court. We have a three-way switch in Iceland about the government of the country, so the example that is being set now by taking this case out of court and having the Council decide on this case is an example I will not want to participate in, so it is said. I'm afraid very much, though a natural hope that a case of this pull will never come up again in Iceland, one can never premeditate it, but I ask men what they will do next when it comes to a case that will be referred to this precedent, that this case was taken from the courts and made votes at the Council. How will they react, regardless of how these matters might grow when they arise? These are aftereffects that are undesirable and should not be allowed to interfere with them. I don't know why the Allied should be taking over. Prime Minister in this matter and try to correct it as best they can. Sadly, the prime minister, who is not here to hear my words, would have chosen. I'm warning you. I really warn you this is going to be a deal. Again, I direct men to remember that this case is not concluded by our consenting to this matter and taking a stand on it. Unfortunately, it doesn't end here, it keeps hanging over all of us during a lawsuit. So it can take a considerable amount of time. What also hurts this conversion is that it can be said that the government, by presenting the case, pulled the leg away from an appointed state lawyer in this case who had worked according to what I know best in total confidentiality and in the knowledge I knew. Then a horse is changed in the middle, and a state lawyer is told: "It's impossible, and we'll call it off, throw it in the Senate. But, of course, the lawsuit will continue, except that the government's office is bent on because there has been a lack of confidence in the legal structure as it is here. I reiterate that I am very sorry that the case had been dropped earlier on the program without anyone being warned about it in the rest of the year 2rd. Had it not been done, the discussion here in the 3rd district would have been discussed. I don't need to, but I want people to think about the consequences of this case. There's one more thing I'd like to say, at least the person standing here is not trusting to do. It's making us generals now reimbursement individuals, creditors. In this bill, members of the Parliament are expected to stake lives on people who have been mistaken. I say again, "How in the world should the Generals be able to determine benefits for individuals?" That's not the Generals' assignment, not at all. That's the one who knows that if the kind of compensation we were making should go somewhere other than to individuals, I'm afraid there'd be a lot of murmuring in the hall. Mr. President. In short, I warn that men will accept this matter. I encourage people to think about it very carefully. I encourage people to remember that the case is not over, it goes on. It won't be any better, it won't be more manageable. It won't be any easier than that. This case hurts, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna have many words on this matter right now. I had a talk with a 1st agent here. It happened to me like a dog. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, we lost the case here in 2nd. I'm not gonna repeat what I said before. I agree with that. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father said it's not a good thing. It is not a good thing for politics to take over such a matter. True, they have done so from the beginning, and those who are older here may remember how this case was political in the beginning, I remember it, and it still is. All of this has been in the hands of politicians. I find it quite amazing how many members of the Parliament feel about it just fine, see nothing wrong with it; see nothing wrong with the example being set, what it can have on the tribunal, etc. We always talk about the importance of the three divisions, but we ignore all of this because we think that we are so good and righteous and sensible in this matter. It's just wrong. What's in common with us here at the council is that we're all completely out of our minds on this matter. That's very harmful to me. I cannot, although I am the great sponsor of this government, support this matter. It's totally contrary to my basic princes that politics is taking this kind of thing, not just in this bill, but, really, much further back. I will, unfortunately, never share in it - perhaps not sadly, I will never participate. As well as I want to do to people in general, as much as I want to be good, I can't do this and I'll never do anything like this. I'm just asking what. Senators to think about it: Is that wise? Aren't there other ways more right, and, in fact, the only reasonable way, than that we're doing things like this? I'm asking you to consider it. This isn't going to be the last thing in Iceland. I know exactly how the discussion is in the community, and I know how politics works. I'm not gonna be a part of it, the rest of you have to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u29	Mr. President. We're in the 3rd. in this large language, which is sensitive and has a long history. Here is an attempt to help end the matter with some kind of reconciliation. The person who stands here has decided to support this matter, even if by a small amount, and has acted in advance of the matter, which is primarily to explain that he does not feel that the case is being held in the way of this bill and the extenuating process in the best way it would be decided. I firmly believe that it would have been the best and most reasonable thing to believe that the State had acted on the defenses of the reform requirements of those who were declared righteous to accept the right to reform and then had been handled in the courts to make the right compensation. There is the right way in these matters. On the other hand, in the process that other routes had gone, I think it was inevitable to do something, and the bill is a product of it. At this point, I felt that it was right to support the bill with that fault, although it had been much better to go other ways. It's hard always to stick to a place where you would, would, and should, when you're in our time. So it may not be beneficial to talk about what should have been done. It was simply not done. The government decided to take control of the case and decided to assign a state lawyer to take over the best possible defense and refuse a right to reform. In my opinion, it was and it's wrong. But here we are before this. At this point, my conclusion is to support the case in the hope of agreeing to the end of the case and to make a deal with those who were declared righteous and those who lived in it. Again, I want to reiterate that it would have been quite normal for a court to discuss the sum of money. The whole thing is so grown and so special, and the amount of money is so great that, in the end, it would have made more sense to let judgment be discussed on this aspect of the matter. But I said that a man shouldn't dwell too much on a woman, have, and should, here we are, and I've decided to support the case despite the fact that the case was not in the form he should have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u30	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator believes that this is the wrong way and that this should have been settled with the courts. But he intends to support it because of the way a state attorney acted on his defense, if I understand correctly. When there is a disagreement about the demands of the State, there is nothing unusual about the state's strict demands, that is, the nature of the matter. [[Question: That's the problem.]] No, of course not. Of course, if the person has legal rights, as it is decided, the state's demands are natural, but if it is legal, the court will judge them. The problem here is that it is merely acquiescing of part of all the charges the person was convicted of. The degree to which this is part of the total punishment has never come out of court releases. So, what are the benefits? And who's entitled to them? They have heard that in some respects the defendants themselves contributed to the toughness and isolation of the supplies. I find it very special that men are going to support it, but they still say they're not going anywhere else. That's a good way, you don't have to support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. We agree, though, that one should stick to the subjunctive, that there should have been another way. I can't agree with that with what. The senator's claim is, in fact, that it was normal to have a state lawyer committed to resorting to extreme defense, thus rejecting a requirement of reform. I cannot agree, for this is so that on the side of the government some comments have been made after the Court of Justice fell, which involved everything else. They included an apology for the way the defendants had been treated in that case and for the convicted ones. Then, already, the government has agreed to pay compensation. Therefore, and in that light, I cannot agree that it is most normal that once the case is passed to a court and a paper is returned to the government, saying, "No, it was all fake. We feel that the State is not subject to improvement, and on that basis we will drive the case. I can't agree with that point of view. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u32	V.E.G. President. I can totally understand the view that men think they're supposed to negotiate, not to stick to the demand for acquiesc, but there is no basis for that. Governments have custody of the case. A federal attorney works for them. What I don't understand is that it needs to be taken into the council. I don't see why. Instead of saying, the government says: " Yes, we're just going to admit that it's something to do. We get legal advice on what we think is normal improvements, and we offer them. That's very normal. But there's some kind of path I don't like, and I think it's OK. A senator doesn't like it either. I pretend to know because we were once in school together. For example, if you are thinking of contributing to everyone you want to pay a price, you might want to do something about it. Not smart in current law, and we'd put out a bill that would reach that group, like relatives and relatives, I could understand a bill like that. But I'm just saying, it's a dangerous example. This case doesn't belong here at the council, except under special circumstances that I don't think are alive right now. In view of this judgment, we are to hide the right authorities to resolve this issue. Now I'm not gonna talk about the background I don't like, there's another arm, we're just talking about this bill here. I don't think it's a big deal to solve it without this bill being paid over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u33	President. Thank you. A senator resists. The problem is that those who handle these matters on behalf of the State have decided to take another course. But now it's got a good one. paritaprevir Níelsson's son's armour had nothing to do with his opinion on this matter. I'm assuming he even has. Enquire them with the government minister who primarily uses machines and try to help them see that this was not the wisest way to go. Yet, there is also the possibility that the government has decided to do so, and they have not listened to counsel. The senator's opinion that maybe it would be enough to put in this bill just show who might have rights to improve, i.e. Family and family members and survivors, that it would be enough, but they committed their attorney to resort to the defenses of the most intimate of all, considering that men had already agreed to reform rights, they would have already decided to expand to whom they should reach and run the case that way. But that is not the result, and it may be possible. Sadly, they say, "I'm sorry. " Senator. But here we are, and from here, I think we have no way except the men assigned, since I have not seen any evidence that governments are ready to go any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u34	Mr. President. We're still discussing the complex issues related to the Guðmunds and Geirður language and now this complex bill, which has come to Leviticus. Um., bill for permission to pay compensation for the Supreme Court case 521/2017. This is a case of the highest degree. When the prime minister came in here and apparently he was going to be back, he began to discuss some discussions in the Assembly Hall. This is sad because it is incredibly important that we ever complete this matter in any way. Sadly, this bill is designed to raise even more questions than answers. It hasn't changed a bit. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is only done as it comes from the highest level. Prime Minister. Even now, it is due to be passed as a law from the Council, which is already to be taken out of force after six or seven months, you wonder what the game is made. This bill doesn't change the fact that there's still going to be a deal with a group of people about possible benefits, and there's still a lot of questions left. Mr. President. The 1st. I asked the highest of this matter. To what is stated in the bill, the prime minister is to be the right person for those in prison who have been declared righteous. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The question did not come to the prime minister, and I do not know that any answer was received. General and educational committees for this reason, i.e. whether it is here to accept an independent right to children and to the spouses of all who have been judged and now have been justified. Are we talking about their own rights? This is what the General Assembly of the Icelanders, the legislatator, intends to let it remain entirely unsatisfactory. What example will we make up for this? Will we let it go whether those in our care will remain in custody or be imprisoned, and later acquiesced to have an independent right to self - mutilation? There may be someone in this room who thinks I'm being a little bit small in this, but I think it's a big deal. I think it's a big deal to let it go whether all the people in this town are entitled to do it right and do it completely without any cost or cost, whether or not the people that were declared alive or not. The legislature needs to be checked and it won't be taken back. Now let it be done perfectly that I want justice for all these people. I want justice to be achieved in this incredibly difficult matter, but I find it extremely difficult when the legislatator accepts such a bill with a number of unscrupulous questions and unafraid. I don't like it. I don't know that it was discussed in the Committee. What will the United States do with other members of the United States who have received benefits from the State in the wake of a righteous judgment? We're talking about more people who don't have anything to do with this Guðmundur and Geirtur language. How will the United States handle this situation? There are other cases of this, and we're here in the 3rd. I'm going to take care of this. Then all the people sitting here better be able to answer those people who come here, and they're going to get compensation for their own mistakes because they're obviously some sort of mistake. This is very serious. V.E.G. On a vote yesterday, the prime minister said that she did not want to take political discussions on this matter. She may not want to. I'd like to talk about this, based on the importance of getting used to the lawgiver. This case is so far above all class politics, I believe. I feel totally irresponsible in acting as if it was about what political party we are. This situation has been like a bruise on the nation for four decades. Can we not begin to focus on which political party we are and rather try to be careful? In the next seven months, what solidarity and outcome will the prime minister take this complicated issue until these laws fail? What does it think will happen at this time, and what will happen when the law has failed? What happens then? Are we going to extend them, or are we going to start thinking about how we are going to do this? The situation today is that a state attorney has submitted a report to the court that requires acquiescation of the divine Guðjón of Skarphéðinsson. That requirement has not been changed, but it is known to all who know that anyone who claims to be judged may change it under the judgment treatment until that requirement has not been changed. The State'skraut on this matter remains unchanged. I can't overlook the review of the lawyer who's been fighting in this matter for almost four decades. There is an attorney Dr. Ragnar, the Aðalsteinsson who turned in ten teams of the story. In fact, he speaks of the children of the righteous who are alive, that they were irreverently affected by this arrest and detriment of the defendants, wondering for their own reform requirements, as the bill does not answer. It is crumbling into a number of things that are shown in the report with the bill, including the article. that the Supreme Court of 2017's decision to acquiesce was based on the prosecution's claim and may understand the recommendation so that the claim was determined on its own. Dr. Ragnar The Aðalsteinsson says, with permission of the president: ▪ This is not possible. The Supreme Court therefore agreed only to the challenge of a court case after investigating the criteria of the Re-Election Committee decision and concluded that the decision was not easy to define as both content and form. Otherwise, there would have been no justification. It is therefore wrong to say that the prosecution's claim to justification alone determined the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court took an independent view of the charges of the case by blessing on the decision of the Re - Appointment Committee. It's interesting to me that it seems as if Aðalsteinsson's warning words the son of the chief stone did not fit into the committee's opinion. It seems that it was merely intended to do this quickly and safely out of the committee, certainly taking in some guests but not looking at the matters of opinion that are up there. A state attorney continues to carry the case on his own. Government attorney's supposed to negotiate benefits. He does so, for he is the legal guardian of the State. If the highest. The prime minister wants her case to be at his table as she has had all the time, she can stay right there at the table. There's nothing to stop it. She is the nation's supreme Ruler, and a government attorney works for her in this matter. Everything he does, he does for the highest commission. Of course, a prime minister and presenting a bill as a necessity for her to take the matter into consideration is not correct because of the supremeness. Prime Minister has the case. This bill doesn't improve. What do members of Parliament do in the position that the bill is in place at this point? ... awrong.? It's not right. The General and Education Committee is taking this case back in and doing it better? Is it not true that the committee looks at such a thing as this? this, although only to see if by personal failure, it is an independent right to stand for error? This is not answered. This is a huge deal. I discussed this in 1st. There was no second round. We are now in the middle of the 3rd. and are going to accept this without criticism. I think it's completely unacceptable. It is also unacceptable for these people who have suffered for 40 years that we should not be more careful. In the report, there is something to consider as to the amount of error and condemnation in these matters and to encourage senators to read the comments of the son of Ragnar, the Aðalsteinsson of Majorstein, when it is being referred to a court case that does not meet, points to comparable events regarding the district of some unferred matter, as if a district not appealed to be an example in this matter. Also referred to the Supreme Court on the same charge, i.e. for those sitting in 105 days under protective custody in 1976 because of the same charge, talking about the number to be found out in accordance with those individuals. It should be noted, however, that while the innocent were in custody, the innocent were in prison, not the innocent. This, however, is just as terrible as both because the loss of freedom is always terrible. Finally, Mr. President, I can't refuse to mention the share of Erla Bolladóttir, which the General Assembly of Iceland still decides to avoid altogether. There's no mention of her in this bill, nor has she been mentioned in talks. I think it is time for the government to consider the case of others and to consider Bolladóttir Bolladótttir's history to see that she was being so wronged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u35	V.E.G. President. I'm trying to figure out what I'm talking about. Senator. Does he approve of this bill? Is he going to vote with it, or is he against it? I'm no closer. What I would have wanted to know, perhaps because of my previous career. A senator, who is normal in such a matter, which is certainly complex in many respects, is very difficult to assess, because there are so many other matters in this matter, that there are compensations, or reforms, without testing how much of the punishment was paid, e.g. By the others, whether the defendants themselves are responsible for anything in this matter, the length of the espionage, etc.? Looks like we're doing it. A senator for politicians to appreciate this? Under all circumstances, does he not feel that this is something he values? And I'd also like to ask if the senator feels that it is a natural thing to say that a government decides to repeat, to require acquiesce. I'm not going to have a discussion about Ragnar's fine opinion, the Aðalsteinsson of the Chiefstein, which I completely disagree with, but that's all right. Is it reasonable to think that this is the way it goes, that politics handles it in this way? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son is very grateful for the answer. I want to start with the end, whether the person here feels normal that politicians are about to consider compensation and make a decision for a sum of benefits. Just normally, I'd like to say, but especially in such a complex matter, the answer is very simple: I think it's completely unnatural. What basis do the 63 senators in this room have to evaluate benefits on such matters? What background do we have in evaluating what is normal, and what is abnormal in this regard? What opportunities do we have to do so? We don't have a chance. I'm just saying that I think it's completely unnatural. But now this bill is a bill, so, fortunately, the amount of money is not being determined. But I think that's what it is, and I said it here in 1 Corinthians. Um, uh, uh, uh, it's just bad stuff. I don't think it's a good Senate case. They weren't supposed to come in here in my opinion because they run it elsewhere, with a state attorney. [[Up front.]] The official is the man who's making compensations every week with those who think they're entitled to pay. He has a background for it. That is not always the case. Sometimes they're just on the table of a state lawyer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u37	V.E.G. President. I totally agree with what. A senator that politicians are not to be, over, just never, allowed to decide what's normal and just. We put it in the hands of other people who are specifically given their jobs, and we measure them by some real data, real causes, etc. That's why I completely agree. I believe this sort of case should be resolved in court with the utmost demands. I don't know. It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... Hv. A senator has repeatedly made it part of his discussion to bring Bolladóttir Bolladddótttir into this matter. There may be something about that. But this time, it was not over again. There is no justification. But does the senator want politicians to take it in some way too? I find that contradictory to a previous lawsuit. The senator, if he's somehow supposed to be here. It will then be expected to require improvements, to back it up, to appeal to speech, and to take action only. I will also begin to get involved in the case of Erla Bolladóttir at this stage, rather than of those who were justified by the claims of the state prosecutor. I also have to say at the end that in these circumstances, in these circumstances, I feel completely unnatural that the government decides to re-spell and government decides to require acquiesce. A court official cannot respond to anything but acquiesce. Although he may have felt that there was a basis for repeating the matter, it is not as if he were willing to accept it. [[The president calls.]] If a righteous person is required, the court can do nothing but justify it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I agree that members of Congress are not supposed to be making any improvements, but they do not agree that the parties and particularly the state attorney always have to make the highest demands regardless of the case. I call attention to the fact that the U.S. Marshal of Congress also disagrees with the fact that a state attorney is acting in strict demands. He has repeated that opinion, last of all, in the case of a judge because of the National Court. There, an emissary of the Generals felt that a state attorney had actually forgotten an objective duty that rests on a state lawyer because of the size of his office, that he could not be there as often as in other matters such as other personal matters. This is somewhat similar to the case in which the charge is threatened. It has, for example. leads to the lack of any criminal degree of punitive tolerance, since it is believed that the person on the side of the defense will be overcrowded, i.e. The defendant, that there are two large parties on one side. As an agent of the Generals has repeatedly pointed out this, it is not normal for a state attorney to act in the way he does and to ask for the highest standards of a report. It's not. I just agree with the Generals' agent in this regard, like so many others. I agree with Erla Bolladóttir that this is no longer a problem here. This case should not be in my opinion. [[The president calls.]] But it's here, and I think it's unnatural not to mention it at all. I think it's very, very, very sorry. The prime minister has not yet answered the repeated request of Erla Bolladóttir, who has been incarcerated this year, i.e. the request for an interview.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u39	Mr. President. I'm just going to enter this case here because I'm on the committee that's been on it. I do not agree with those who have before spoken about the approach they have already made. It is stated in the case that, in agreement with a federal attorney, the government has granted a special commission to seek an agreement on fair compensation, in accordance with the case, and that there was a need for legal reform at the time. As we know, the government in our belief was that peace was at peace with the very best party. As we know, however, it did not work out, and there was one person who approached us sooner than we expected. The purpose of this bill is to ensure a special legal authority behind the payment of these improvements and the financial resources of the State on their behalf. Although many cases have gone back in our justice system, I am confident that we will never experience again, and not our descendants, but, by this means, a case of rights and rights, of other defendants today than they were at the time of this tragic affair. What is underlying, and in view of what has been said here, the attorneys of all the bodies mentioned on the bill recommended that the case be agreed. It was unanimously thought that it would be done. It was also noted that there are differing opinions among lawyers as to whether the rights of the survivors, children, and other caregivers, to failure, and even to be fair reformed. They believed that this was a particularly strong position for them to be approved here, making them at least a few weeks ago. Any fair compensation. Of course, it is important that we keep in mind that their right to proceed in the judiciary system and to seek compensation will continue, but it is primarily to work on equality. Besides, we know that no matter what money is involved, if you view it as a means to improve money in itself, you will not be aware of the terrible things these people have had to experience and carry with them all their lives. This, however, is an attempt to demonstrate and accept the wrongs committed by the superior authorities. I'm not going to discuss this much here. I just think it's important that the discussion on the Committee was being handled with equal resources against these specific people. We resolved to look at it primarily, not necessarily over the history of the case or other, but rather than feel that it was not our job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u40	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that I'm going to stay with the vote of this case because of contact with an individual with whom the matter is concerned. If it weren't for that connection, I'd probably have supported the case, I'd lead a similar one, but I have to say that the discussion will make me doubt myself very regularly about my position on this matter because there are many factors that affect my attitude on it. First of all, it's ridiculous. I think that everyone must agree, although that may not be exactly said by everyone. But it is absolutely absurd that the Council is making a decision about damages or benefits for something that is part of the judicial system to make a decision. On the other hand, I must also say that these matters, the Gebrimish and the Gudmundur, have taken away the believer in the judicial system and the authorities. It's not nice to say anywhere and anytime. There is a plan in society that you should just trust in courts, that you should believe that governments control the other and those projects. It's just not the case in my case, Mr. Honorable President, I can't apologize or soften it because it's just the way it is. I don't have that religion. The failure of the authorities and courts in this case for decades has robbed me of that belief. Now, I don't want to offend anyone, but I think it's more naive to keep firm in some extreme belief in the judicious system or the Supreme Court or the government after Icelandic society has had to view such matters as the Gebris and Guðmunds and all that goes with them. I notice in the case of some who say it belongs at the court system, which is quite understandable, that is correct, of course, in the court system, so overwhelmingly believe that now the system of justice can begin to do something right. Yes, it has improved, but I perceive this firm belief that if things belong there, then finally it must be well. I just can't believe it, Mr. Honorable President. I don't believe it for the same reason that I don't believe in other things that others probably think you believe in. In many parts of society, there is a plan that you should just believe the things and these things and cause problems in human society when you simply don't believe them. Speaking of which. In the past, the credibility of a state lawyer was mentioned. A state attorney is like the name of the government's office, and the client of that lawyer is the state itself. The state itself has the ability to determine how they would place themselves in damages, and they can change their attitude like that of each other, as shown at a meeting by the Committee. I have not yet heard an explanation of it, either bad or good, why, on the other hand, this bill should be needed to change the view of a state lawyer to require acquiesce. The recommendation that he is obliged to meet with the utmost demands just makes me feel inadequate. It is only a government attorney, and the State can set out the requirements that the State considers proper, in this case in particular the highest. Prime Minister, I presume. I think it's not what a state lawyer can do about his demands, it's about what he wants. I think this is really about how it would look so bad, would be so silly and stupid after a state lawyer has submitted this paper, where he insists on a filing requirement, that it should be done in the highest order. Prime Minister and say: No, short, state lawyer. We're gonna do this differently, and he's gonna start doing this differently. I just don't think it'd look so good, like a crooked tie or a tear on the jacket like that. A respectable president. I just don't care if it looks good or not. A state attorney can look a little rough on me. He's not my lawyer. I'm not the head of a state lawyer, it's not mine to trust him. It is not for me to tell whether he is doing things right or not. It's the highest. The prime minister who chooses not to go along with simply telling a state lawyer: No, we're going to do this differently. We are going to make a book in which we will not comply with the highest demands of the State on this matter. Rather, we will take our stand in line with minimal sensitivity. But I understand it doesn't look good and it's in good shape, tops. This must be true of the prime minister. Some see, the message is that for a state lawyer to change his mind, something like this needs a bill, as far as I can best be seen for some of these reasons, for some sort of appearance. Then we are faced with the decision to accept this bill to ensure that a warrant will be available to pay these losses, even if a state lawyer maintains his demand for stress - I should, in fact, say, the highest. Prime Minister through a federal attorney. Even though courts would take the absurd position that no compensation should give, the question also arises: Do you trust a court to take such a ridiculous stand? A respectable president. I'm afraid my answer is yes. When it comes to judicial matters in general, I put my trust in the courts to make completely unscrupulous decisions. I don't know how it happened that in our community you should have a lot of respect for the awesome wisdom of the Supreme Court. I just reject that theory, a respectable president. I turn down things I hear from religion. Faith and trust are not required of humans. I don't believe. I don't trust you. I'm not sorry, I'm not sorry. If they're shocked, they'll just have to deal with themselves because I don't care. This issue is not just about the victims, neither the Geir Geirfinnur nor Guðmundur, nor the victims of the system that followed it, but of Iceland. The fact that Iceland as a community allowed it to happen what happened and watch it happen. I understand that in a way, Iceland is a young community, rather naive in many ways and has been a long time, late to crawl out of the caves, so to speak. You get it, but it doesn't justify anything. They don't justify treatment with these people, and they're probably paying for their failures. When the system has failed for decades, I don't know how it's supposed to be more unpleasant to accept a bill like this, as crazy as it is to be in that position at first. I find this difficult because I agree that, of course, this should be in the judiciary system, but history does not give me the faith and confidence in the judiciary system or the right/will of the government or stateman to make the right decisions on this. History does not show that the Icelandic authorities, or courts, take a reasonable position on these issues. It's not like that. I wondered how my vote would end, anyway, if it wasn't a personal relationship that will make me the yellow button and will sit by the hearing. I'd like to say, as it is, after a lawsuit here in a box, and in a committee I've wandered a little bit between the red button and the green button, I've been on the green button for more time, but it's also occurred to me to vote against this matter at the Princes' trial that it belongs in the courts. Then there is the precedent, another aspect that I understand very well, with great respect for it. We should ask ourselves that question and answer the question, How is the example possible if we accept this matter and then we get more? Well, a respectable president, I don't know. The Guðmundles and the Geies were not only in the courts, they were fought in the media, they are part of our legal history in a way that is no other matter, or will ever be. It will always be unique, no matter what, for one reason alone, to have been as much public talk as it was in a public discussion as it was in the past. This subject will always be special in that respect. On the other hand, I feel that because of the State's violation of what they have lost, it is fundamental to believe that people will be restored to something they have lost. And if it doesn't appear until later that people had barbarism on the part of the government, in the alleged offer of profit, I have to say the same as I do, I think that they should make the mistake better. If it's expensive, it's just expensive. Should it not be expensive when the Kingdom treats people this way? Isn't it supposed to be a little bad? Shouldn't that be a little painful for the state? I think it should be bad, and it should hurt. Then I finally come to what others have. Councilmen have mentioned, which is about to end this matter. For my part, this case is never finished. This matter will never be over. To me, it's a permanent trait of Icelandic society. The story now is that this can happen, and Icelandic society in the right circumstances will react as they have responded for decades, i.e. responds more or less. It is the lesson that says something deeply deeply about who we are and what we can endure. It will never go anywhere, for it will never be over, so the growth and lack of faith remain for my part. I will never trust this system. I will never trust a court of law. I will never trust the General, will never trust the government, and will never trust the voters, but will be able to handle these matters properly. I'll always want more to be done to ensure people's rights. I'll never go down there because we need surveillance, we need restraint and balance. We need a democratic safety valve. We need compensation when things go bad. Now I'm lucky in two ways, that I know a person who's involved in the case and then can simply sit by in this case because I'm still a little unsure where my vote would end up. I see that there are others on the rosary that I think is quite appropriate and that, in fact, would like to agree with the idea if the Senate allows more and more of this matter to be discussed in a committee. Actually, it's time for 3. Um, I don't know how it works when it works against Congress. I don't have it in front of me. But at least I'd like to think of it as a good thing. At least I'll have to say I appreciate it. Prime Minister to make this request, and although I do not vote as people will, there are good reasons to vote in any way on this matter. I understand perfectly that some vote against that. I have full respect for the reasons people will have for doing so. I also have full respect for the fact that people sit by or vote with this and fully understand the viewpoint behind it. But this matter should remind us again and again what happened, never allowing it to somehow end. It will never be over, Mr. Honorable President, this case will never end, it will never cease.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u41	A respectable president. It is truly a delicate subject that we are dealing with here, and I really find it impossible but to point out one thing, where we had a hard time. A senator sits together in the Committee for Directorates of Change of Constitution, even of a new constitution, that there has been no mention of 2 par. current constitution. I've often talked about the possibility that the government may have gone against the constitution from time to time and exerted power in that direction. The issue is unprecedented, we know it, but I don't know that there are any precedents for this sort of thing going through the lawgiver as it seems here. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if we can agree to follow Article 2. The Constitution, in its three - part analysis of the state government, is the three - point definition of the Icelandic constitution, as the Council of Government now states. This three - part analysis is designed to allow any power to have its place, the General and the President to administer legislation while the courts are supposed to be completely independent in their affairs. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is it not reason for us to look into and predict it, away from the tragedy of the matter or such, what could be the result if the Allied Council of Iceland, the Lawgiver, is about to enter such a scene as we are doing here and now with this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u42	A respectable president. I don't think so, at least I'm not convinced that this case is contrary to a constitution. On the other hand, in terms of the political treatment of the Constitution, I generally agree to a new constitution, which is laid down for the so - called legal rights. Legally, according to the bill for the new constitution, means that a certain group, a certain section of members of the council, reminds me that they are nine, that I don't dare bet on it, may demand that a legal case be discussed here, and that it determine whether or not things will work out. The case should not be approved at the General Assembly until this conclusion is established. What happens if the General agrees to a law that violates the Constitution? I think it depends on the way it describes itself. But there is something else that would be considered, and I think that might actually be a better way to have some kind of administrative court that can be referred to to to to ensure that in advance. Here, it's more fashioning to do things afterwards, put things on and see if something goes wrong, it's like a lot of other things in the Icelandic board that I'm not very comfortable with, and I'd like to see some improvement in. I don't know where I would finally put my vote after this discussion about the matter, although I have supported it at the time it was taken from the committee. But I think the question is worth it. At any rate, I have not heard convincing evidence that the matter violates Article 2. The constitution, I must say at the moment. I don't see the contradiction that the state has the right to pay for injuring, even if this is also done by surveyors. If so, there is, of course, an independent reason to vote against the case. But then I feel that there is a check that should be done properly first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. If we just put ourselves here and now, not what the future holds and how we'll succeed in changing the rules, whether we have legal rights, trying to pass the law in any other direction - I'm thinking mainly about where we are here and now. When the bill shows that even a dollar has been decided on what each individual is going to receive and that we are here, the lawgiver, who is going to make a decision about it completely out of the court system, it is also particularly important, as it were. A senator came in earlier, that we speak much more and consider the matter much deeper than we do here and now. In some way, there never was a discussion about the matter in the second. ... asI thinkit'sdeserved. And if we are possibly struggling with 2. So, then, the Constitution with this bill is not a reason why we try to arrange it in such a way that we might talk more about it? The matter will return to the committee for further discussion and take into account this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u44	A respectable president. I don't see in the bill that there's a decision on what the benefits are. There's a few examples mentioned in the report, but also specifically -- now I don't feel it quickly -- that it might change. But besides, I'd also like to mention that we here at the council have a certain tendency to overexplain such documents as articles and speeches, and we often think that we can decide a great deal with legal evidence that will never be put to the test because the regulations are clear. As far as I can see, the arrangements in this matter are clear and the amount will not be determined by the General. That's my understanding of the case. The other is that I can totally agree with that. A senator to look into the matter further and especially to ensure that he is in accordance with the constitution. I agreeed in my speech, saying that if a seminar allowed the case to be dropped back into a committee to look at it specifically or even more so. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir I must say, the Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson for his speech, which, though not used by me, inspired the speech. I didn't like hearing it. A senator offers a complete lack of confidence in the justice system in Iceland. I don't think that it's good for him to experience it that way, and I think it's kind of even more serious because of his position as a senator that he repeatedly declares in a speech at the General over total lack of faith in the justice system in Iceland. After working in this system, I have to say that I don't always agree with a decision in court, sometimes things feel unfair or possibly just stupid in your own eyes, but it doesn't change that if we're going to speak down the courts in Iceland I think we're in a pretty bad place. One thing is to have an opinion of how the entire legal system has been handled by the Guðmund and Geography, but to declare in 2019 a total lack of confidence in the system, that it is not able to solve this smell in terms of reform and possible damage to these people, I find a most unfortunate wording. I'm asking if he'd better trust the Allied Parliament and the members of the council who work there to make a better decision. Then I am not talking about anyone personally but from the background and the possibility of an example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u46	A respectable president. Here we go to the purpose that I mentioned in my talk. You have some moral obligation to believe or to trust certain things, but I reject them. This is a very common practice in religion. If you don't believe in God, you're a bad person. I don't agree with that. However, there are things I can say about it. A senator said. I'm not sure that I used the words completely skeptical, I have some sort of belief in courts, but if it got out of me, it's just like that. But let's be absolutely clear. I wasn't trying to arouse some good feelings through my speech. I wasn't trying to comfort senators, but I wasn't saying that it was good to have unbelievers. On the contrary, I was saying it was bad because that's not how it should be. That's why I mentioned it, because there's a problem. I know we're in a bad place when we do, that's the point. I think it's unfortunate, too, that a senator will go to a pit and say it, but I have two options. I can either be honest with the way the world I live in, and I didn't create and control what it is, or I can come up here and pretend I have some belief in something I don't have any particular faith in, someone but not a lot, and trust in some situation I don't trust in. A respectable president. It's just to make it annoy people and to make them feel bad about what they are. It has to be that people don't like them. I'm just gonna say things as they are, as they appear to me at least. But I'll say I respect the decision of the courts. This is not because I think they necessarily come to the right conclusion but because we must have some common surface to settle matters in the end. It's the only way to keep the peace, but that's exactly how to keep the peace, not because I think the results are necessarily correct or intelligent, and in some cases I feel completely out of school. I would respect the conclusions, I feel that the law should apply, and I feel that a court of law will be valid, but that's because I'm no other way. I just don't agree that I have some obligation as a member of the body to act as if some court has earned some enormous trust and faith, a respectable president, and why. A senator only has to feel sad if it works. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's not about how I feel, how I feel, and how I experience things. I'm just a sidebar here. What I'm worried about is the entire group of people who each day seek their rights to the courts. It is a very large group of people who look for their rights there, receive some justice, and find conclusions on matters that they may have waited for for for years and decades. That's why I feel very bad when the U.S. Marshal declares total distrust of this system because we have nothing else. We have no other system but our system of justice to handle these issues. [[The president calls.]] It is determined by the constitution that this is how we are going to have it. And even if there are times when you disagree with a decision, that is, in much of the matter, you may agree with it. [[The president calls.]] And then what? Will we, though, distrust the courts?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u48	A respectable president. I'll go back to the fact that it's bad. I'm not saying it's good, it's bad. I don't like to say these things in a pit, but I have only two choices, to tell honestly about the world as it appeared to me, or don't do it. I choose to do it honestly. This reminds me of a discussion I often had with religious people who were terribly shocked that I did not believe in church doctrine. Then I was asked: " What about all the people who have lost a loved one and who need some comfort and some help in their lives, some sort of crutch, to go on walking in order to get on with their lives? ' I understand that, I understand that, I just don't believe it, a respectable president. I just can't believe that this system is in the glory it is given. I like it. At times, a senator may have a slightly selective hearing when it comes to this, so I reiterate that I agree with it. A senator says we need a central attorney. I agree with that. Hv. A senator well described the reason why we need it that way, and I agree with it. A senator of all of this. I think it's unfortunate too, I think it's bad too. I'm just describing the world as it appears to me, and it appears to me, so I don't have that super-convincing system of justice that everyone expects you to have when you're a member of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u49	President. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir sort of took my troubles off and asked about what I was going to ask. [[Up front.]] However, that's the other thing, huh? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, to talk about glory and some perfect system or to undermine it and say it's impossible. It is important, especially for members of the State, that the government does not speak down the judicial system in any way. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I don't make any demands to do anything. A senator agrees, or has strong faith in, or does not consider it inferior, but we know that we have a three - part system. This section is assigned a specific task, and let us just criticize it grammatically, not talk of some glory and that everything that comes from being perfect must be taken. There is nothing perfect that comes from there, rather than anywhere else. What I wanted to talk about too is what happened next. Senator on state law. A state attorney is given an assignment. He must work to the best of his ability. A state attorney's strict demands do not mean that he cannot negotiate benefits. That's how it happens. When required, you make the most demands, and then you make them. To make any other requirement for a case that he did not personally appeal to. Rather, the evidence would feel irresponsible on the part of a state lawyer, and he did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u50	A respectable president. Now I'd like to look up my speech to know exactly what words I used, I don't remember saying that the system of judgment was impossible, and I also don't remember saying that I had a complete lack of faith in it but, on the other hand, not to believe in it. I feel that this case has shown how weak it can be, and I reiterate that it is not just the judicial system. I criticized the entire Icelandic community, including voters for having held up this nonsense for decades. There, my main disappointment lies, a respectable president. I don't think that the system of justice will ever reflect something far better than that after all. That is why sometimes things need to be said as they appear. I have to say to what. A senator may feel bad about me saying these things. I think it's bad too, but I still feel I have to say it. I hate this whole thing, and I hate to have to say those things as a result of having seen this shit. That's the situation, though. I don't really know how to give comfort. A senator better, but I must refuse to learn some lesson about the triunes of power and the judicial hearings. It's a deal, I know it, and I explained both of the answers I made earlier. That should be perfectly clear. In case of a moment. A senator wants it out of me that I don't believe in the triunes of power, support, or objections. A senator, with all due respect, should have that conversation with someone other than me. You see, I believe in the threefolds of power, and in fact, I have fought hard for it. A senator and a boy. His party if it's gone. It's not about that, it's not about a court decision. Of course they do. That is why I feel the problem when courts reach absurd conclusions. [[Up front.]] This is because the decision needs to be made. It is the foundation of peace in the country, and in every community at that point, that there is some common decision-maker. It's my faith in what makes me feel this problem. I hear very little more from what. A senator, yet shocked by the fact that I express my mind and the world as it appeared to me. I'll just be with all due respect, Mr. Honorable President, to guide him. A senator says he will discuss his grief with someone other than me. [[The president calls.]] I did not create this world, and I did not build this system of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u51	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has repeatedly said that he did not trust courts, did not trust the system of justice. Got it. A senator normal for members of Congress to do so in a peninsula, because men are saying things the way they are? It's a lot of normal stuff to do. Senators criticize unique matters, and I don't talk about them if they have any knowledge of them and knowledge of them. This presentation is known to me below all the caves. No system is perfect, and if humans were so worried about this system, it might be a reason to suggest a change, but this is our system, this is our legal system. This is our legal state that is important, and I believe it is important that members of Congress not speak in the manner that is being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u52	A respectable president. I think that reflects the exact problem, no matter what. In view of its prehistoric history, a senator feels that the utmost demands are made in a case like this. I think it describes the thinking that makes a system like this go crazy, so it doesn't work like it should work. Hv. A senator asks me if it's natural for me to have senators say things like that in Pontu. I'm sorry to have to tell things like that. I have two advantages to be honest or not. I choose to be honest with that. A respectable president. I don't mean to be rude, but it's nice to be clear that I don't care what the hell. 5th a.m. s.. It feels like what I say in a punk and what I don't. I don't think it's his to appreciate it. He has his speeches, and I think my speeches, sometimes he shocks me, and sometimes I shock him. That's just the way it is. A senator must do so well to live with it. I'm just saying things like they're gonna show up to me, and if they're not pretty enough, and if it's unfortunate, it's gonna have to be so, a respectable President. [[The president calls.]] It's all said with all due respect, I'm just saying things the way they are. Sorri with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u53	V.E.G. President. I will give a brief talk at the end to try to sum up what has been presented. I have observed in many members of the council that they seem to agree with me that this case is at home with the courts, that it is unnatural for politicians to take such complicated legal measures to themselves and try to resolve it rather than for courts to do so. Yet you hear a man, e.g. in responsibly, which is intended by men to support the political taking over a complex legal issue, which makes up the improvement, not feeling that it is a matter of choice, that they intend to vote with it. That's what worries me. The many people here often speak of the unnatural behavior of politicians as meddling in such things, even becoming corrupt. You don't hear a word about this being an abnormal involvement by politicians. They don't think anything is wrong with this, but I think this case is abnormal. Although I would like to solve people's problems and pay them money from famous taxpayers, I can't accept this progress. [[As famous has become.]] In all circumstances, this is unnatural. Men come to speeches and to evict a state lawyer repeatedly, which is still just doing their job. He has the authority to negotiate, and he does so on legal grounds that he feels likely to be close to the decision of the courts. That's all he can do. He is so shocked that he makes the most demands on the matter. If I were a minister, I'd be rather upset with a federal attorney if he didn't make the most demands on a case that would be appealed to me. Then there is some debate about a state lawyer who may be particularly careful. I think we're going to have to rethink our thinking and make sure that this sort of thing or something doesn't come back here again. I suggest that this case go back to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u54	It's a 3rd. Now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u55	Yeah, it's 3rd. Now. Well, that doesn't go to the committee much. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[For example: It's been sent there.]] Okay, that's possible. I'm not going to hurt anybody. I totally understand people's viewpoint, and I understand the government's problem. I understand the problem of Ministers, but somehow we've been completely asleep over the main points in this matter. It's not a question of whether we feel for the defendant. We are sleeping over the point of the case, which is that we politicians are trying to solve complex legal issues because there are a lot of complex legal issues involved in this. Perhaps the major legal issue is that judicial cases never required a review of punishment, i.e. how much this acquiesc in the case should have effect on punishment. There was never any requirement for the Supreme Court to do that. Courts were not allowed to decide on this. They can take a stand on the matter of judicial action that is being appealed to on the basis of the benefits. That is why a state attorney requires acquittal. He does not know how much it is, and whether in any way it is due to the long custody of the defendants himself and that they may have little or no right. This is the problem we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u56	A respectable president. I just want to remind you first that I think this is a very unusual case. I find this absurd, as I went over in my speech, and declare it over and over again that I had a sharp swing at my position of how I had paid votes, i.e. If I was going to vote for it, but I will sit by for ties. Hv. A senator spoke of it as the lawgiver taking on a role rightfully part of the courts, a viewpoint I understand, and a respect for. This is discussed in 2 paragraph 2. The republic's constitutions. I wonder what. A senator considers the matter to be a direct violation of a constitution. If not, I wonder if it is. A senator does not feel that it is best to explain the role of courts in a constitution with a so - called change. In case of a moment. A senator believes that this is a conflict with a constitution, is it not appropriate to review the discussion on that issue in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u57	V.E.G. President. Of course, the General can provide a bill for anything. The General Assembly can agree to a bill to pay to anyone. It won't violate the constitution. I'm just saying that this bill allows the government to settle a matter, and I feel that in this case, when it comes to this case, it's not right for the politician, the minister, or his people to decide in themselves what they think is fair and normal. It must be based on a legal basis so that it can be done. For us to decide what normal improvements, we need to know how much of the punishment was. Who values it? To me, only courts. We can decide everything, but I think it's unnatural on our part to do it. It doesn't have the whole idea of the trident, but I'm not saying this bill goes against a constitution. I've never talked about it. Still, the thought is that, whether we like it or not, we take care of certain things here, the courts that some do not trust. To tell you the truth, I trust them better than us, even though we're awesome. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u58	A respectable president. I haven't noticed that there's anything wrong with that. As a member of the U.S. council, I began to think about this, especially after my entire series of arguments. 8th yrs Smoke. S., Inga Sæland Land. Hv. One senator noted that this conflicts with the thought of a three - part arrangement of power, and I understand it. I respect her very much, and I'm trying to be boring about that subject myself. It is the insistence of the Constitution to have such things clear that the council is not a judge and courts are not the lawgiver, not the lawgiver, etc. I feel like a whale. A senator wants this to be better than what is suggested in this case, yet he does not have a formal constitution that would be better. I hope I'm not laying down. A senator's word in his mouth, but if I'm doing it, it's because I really don't understand. [[The president calls.]] I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u59	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. In common, then, a senator strives to be as boring as possible. There's more to it than we can do here. I'm just saying there's a certain thought around it. When a minister is called on to improve matters almost weekly or monthly, improvement may be negotiated, although adeclared case is required. Ministers do not make some emotional decisions about this. All of this is done according to the counsel of a state attorney or the experts appointed to do so. We should not make any personal decisions as to what we think is fair or right. Then I think we've begun to abuse our authority. [[The president calls.]] We'll have to have some solid foundation if we're to agree with something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u60	Mr. President. Since I have a truly social character, I will join the ranks of the men who are striving here to be boring. I'd like to state before I ask the question that I'm not a law-trained man, but there are a few members in the hall who are law-trained. I think it's a little strange to listen to this discussion. I may be wrong and would like to be corrected, but as I see it, the executive manager of the European Commission is giving a bill, but the same is also the head of the legislature. He offers a bill for actually intervening something that the court should do in the tributary of the state. We must wonder if we think of the legal kingdom and the building up of it is sacred, as far as it goes, not a perfect system, just right, but at least has not yet developed a better system. Is it not the most pure form of corruption if we are going to act the way this is? There's also been a discussion of corruption here. If we're going to mess with the tribunal system, are we not? That's what I was wondering. I find it interesting that the discussion has come this far, that it has reached 3rd. and may be considered if the case is not returned to committees. I feel that this matter should be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u61	V.E.G. President. I'd at least... say we're on a high track. This is not in harmony with what we're all equal in thinking, how we want things, to push ordinary politicians farther and farther away, that they shouldn't be involved in things, but then, in the end, somehow, these discussions go away and all of a sudden don't apply anymore. Nobody's worried about that. It seems to me that 70-80% of the Congress world just wants to say yes. Maybe it's part of a council member of the yellow, which is nothing more than a yes in my mind in this case. It's a little twin, if you're trying to pull it out of me, in the discussion when we're talking about what's normal for politicians to do and how they act. I gave that talk in cover 1. I didn't like the way politics has taken over this matter from the start. Then it goes down a long time, but after a crash it has become a very political demand for the matter to be repeated. Then a committee was made, the case was repeated, and the matter was required to be declared righteous. I find this project extremely dangerous and wicked as a whole. What's happening here may just be a logical consequence. Perhaps this is because they were not absolutely sure that they would be paid for serious benefits and that they would have the opportunity to pay more compensation. Perhaps they were not sure that all victims would receive compensation, and they were to try to make sure that they received compensation. [[The president calls.]] I don't like political power, it's just bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u62	It is noted that members of the council are to address their case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the answer. This may be something I was asking about and wanted to know. We're reaching out too far, and I'm agreeing with the people here who have said that the situation is pathetic in all places. How sad it is, but we cannot allow our feelings to affect us in that we begin to interfere with the trident of the State or in one way or another with legal solutions. We can at best learn from this and make sure that this does not happen again or at least try to do so. our best ability to stop it. I really hope that we have the wisdom to do so, but I have to say that I am surprised that we are going to intervene in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u64	V.E.G. President. I understand people, they've been like bruises in decades, and people want a solution and they're gonna finish it. I understand and I understand that this is the case. There's a requirement for an acquittal that happens automatically and that's where we're just here. Whether we like it better or worse, we need to finish it. I can honestly say that I think it's very normal that it's done and made up with these people, but it has to be on the basis of some legal diagnosis and the findings of a state attorney or a person assigned to handle the case, not according to our decision, politicians. I'm not asking for anything else from now on but that we're gonna do it smart and we're gonna finish this. We have to finish it. It would be best to negotiate, but if you're not prepared to negotiate on the basis you think I'd like to make the most demands, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u65	A respectable president. There's a lot of things in this case that's interesting. In between 1 and 2 pars. The bill consists of things that in general might be a good change, e.g. The fact that these types of payments don't come as a deduction from pensions and social security laws and things like that. It may be the main thing that I have to consider, that the points presented in the bill are specific in this case. If we're going to make them general, I'll agree well with them. Piranha are even. with a matter similar to the 1st mg. 2.g. and the lack of damages to payment due to social security legislation. I don't see this bill as the deed of anyone who isn't already in the hands of the Commission, e.g. of 1 mg. 1st ... that a minister is permitted to pay compensation following the Supreme Court's court hearing in this regard. That's what a minister does anyway. It's not necessary for me to have that law. The next article is that this includes a larger group that might be a good general change, but I wanted to see laws about the general change, not specific, and 1 mg. 2.g. which is a very special matter. Last paragraph of paragraph two. may be similar to that. [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's how I called it in the 1st. certain virtuals because a certain mistake was made, and this is a redundant with specific methods that should be generalised. I would have liked to see the general solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u66	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u67	V.E.G. President. Now, in a relatively short time, I can share a lot of both of them. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson says, too, hasn't he? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. That doesn't happen every day. I agree that it's okay to submit some bill or set a law that generalizes who may be entitled, etc. I totally agree with that. But as soon as people put a special law on something special, there's always a chance that people will come here in a few years and say, "Hey, wait, why doesn't that matter about me?" Then will not come up into my mind the argument that this matter is so old and has rested on the people. I feel like everyone's going to walk evenly. That's why I've said this is a dangerous precedent. It is true that the government and the government must negotiate some improvements every week or every month, but it must be done on the right grounds, that people are not motivated. Here I feel like there's a little free card being given to men by negotiating about anything, even if the expert, state lawyer, says, "Hey, wait, it's not quite that simple. This may not work, and it's not in accordance with a court order, but the politicians are just gonna solve this and get rid of it. That's how it looks from where I'm from. I don't like that, and I agree with almost every word. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u68	A respectable president. The reason I can agree with this bill is because I would like to see its general articles. I hope so. A senator will understand the tone that would then be under my consent on this bill. I'm thinking that this is a general change, and hopefully it will help the general change to get to the point where we've done this once, we've got our foot in the doorway. The only comment I've got on this case, and it's just that the council isn't handing out anything, that ministers can't point out to the council and say that the council agreed that the sums could be so high. To me, this case is precisely not a matter of allowing a minister to do something beyond what a minister can do already anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u69	V.E.G. President. I guess we agree that this bill is unnecessary and that people will just have to have general rules. So, shall we accept it? Should we be on a yellow button or red button? A lot of things in my mind, on the Prince's Tip, that makes me unable to accept the bill. I understand all the anguish of this matter. I understand the wrath. I understand all these things. Sometimes I say, " Why don't I just hang in, and we can finish this and forget it? ' Of course, that is not the case. If you think further, there'll be other things behind, etc. That's why I say, we're on a bad path in this matter, but I'm not going to scold one or anyone for it. I just understand this and want to use the opportunity at the end to commend this government in general - but not for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u70	A respectable president. Just a friendly tip: It's a meeting day tomorrow and then it's two important committee shots on Thursday and Friday. We need a clearer line now on the side of the government. But anyway, we're seeing and reading about it in the news that there was a problem among the government groups in terms of getting certain issues. We're seeing them rush into the council now. We're seeing the media bill and we're seeing more bills on the side of the government and we've literally missed a case all this fall into this council. And who are the ones who have maintained the operation here at the council? It is the government's standard, by presenting a case. We're in the hot tub now that we're going into the Committee Days. Then it is being tried to prevent the issue from being handled by members of the administration body. [[The president calls.]] I would like to direct a friendly recommendation to the council president to adopt it within the presiding committee that we begin to see only the cards on the part of the government and to understand how we are going to complete the council next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u71	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u72	A respectable president. I just want to say the word. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. It has been striking how much government has been promoted. In fact, there are some committees where much more were involved until recently. I think it is very important to keep what I have mentioned in the past, that if there is a lack of time in the coming days, it can't be attributed to the government's opposition. Not many days left. I think the government needs to explain exactly how she can see this because we cannot expect the government to be responsible for the government - once again - giving matters at the last moment when it has had enough time for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u73	Mr. President. Just like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said before this is a tip for the greater part of this body at council. It's not possible that we're going to make a big, big business of some bomb during the last days just before Christmas. But I'd like to draw out that it's not like the government, at least... not restoration, blocking the normal dates that the government has done well, and we have done well in the council. That's not the plan. But do not bring in matters that are not yet finished, nor do matters that concern large interests that are important for the council to handle well - handled and discuss controversial matters. It's just a friendly gesture on my part that we get a conversation, either on the presiding committee or at the government parties and the bosses, so we're going over these matters now and we're going to see how we can end the council next week with honor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u74	A respectable president. I just wanted to remind you that we have been making contributions for large sums of money on the basis of judicial cases, which resulted in a hurrying of the cases. It's just that way. We are talking about billions of dollars because the council was not allowed to finish things thoroughly because of quick treatment. Therefore, it is serious if there is to be any prompt treatment. We are costing it. We have the examples of a law that has had to be corrected later, which cost nothing but just the matters that cost us billions each day: Let's do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u75	Mr. President. I come up here to join the council members who have spoken of the situation that exists in the council these days before intermission. The situation at the moment. The welfare committee, known as the president, has been discussed and discussed repeatedly at the highest level. President. V.E.G. A social minister has decommissioned into the council three very large cases that could easily have been ready for last spring, but he is now entering the late November and is scheduled to be settled quickly by the end of the year. This makes it possible, of course, that they will never be worked properly, and I must say that they will be president of what they are. The welfare committee says I'm very sorry about that. I don't like to add my name to that kind of work. [[The president calls.]] I'm very sorry that the Council is used as a stamp pad when a minister cannot do his work decently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u76	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the words of my friends. In fact, I don't think the situation was as bad, since the government was very late with more than half its involvement in the council in the fall. The government's work force was sustained, we can say, well into the winter. Otherwise, there would have been no issue, for all cases were missing from the government. There have been repeated meeting events in the council committees because of their lack of speech. Of course, it is with this body of Congress that proclaimed a change in practice that, at the same time, the aforementioned matters have been held on a committee discussion, but they have not been scheduled, they have not been called for visitors, they have not been helped with their release from a committee. Of course, these are absolutely unacceptable practices. But most important, we plan to drive it high into 20 cases as dates, many uninformed by committees - this is not an acceptable practice for the Allied Council of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u77	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with what was said just now. I thought I'd get a hearing tomorrow on a welfare committee so-called priorities, and I wished to get it on schedule because at a recent meeting the Committee vice president mentioned it would be good if we were to consider our members of Congress. He did this because the chairman of the Committee was in other council projects. So I'm amazed that now that I ask for my priorities on the program, there are a lot of e - mails that say it's not possible because we've finally got a case from the social and child - care minister we've already been waiting for. We have been waiting so long for them that at least once a meeting at the committee was announced because there was no problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u78	Mr. President. I come here to join them. Councilmen here have spoken, and particularly to confirm the record. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir is the daughter of the Aarhus of what was asked for and the understanding that most of them put into it. It's kind of dual, on the one hand at least From many fixed committees it is reported that it is not time to complete, taking the final step in evangelizing matters, which are still complete and full of committees, and at the same time the committees are being pushed into the affairs of the government all too late. The worst part is that many of them come in to committees so incomplete that there is simply a discrepancy among the narratives about how the matter is settled. We're given one week, maybe two, to finish it anyway. It is clear that this needs to be considered better, and the requirement is, in fact, that it is well defined what cases from the management board are being undertaken to establish a committee's progress, what cases are going to be completely open to the end of the New Year's convention and what matters of Congress will go through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u79	Mr. President. We will discuss here what is familiar with the way things should be done when it comes to the Christmas election, as in times past. Of course, it can be said with members of Congress that the time is very stressful. Congress must try to make the best of its time and try to get it done. But the issues discussed here from the highest. Social Affairs is a matter for members of Congress to be very well aware of coming before the council. At least two of these cases are directly linked to the biographies agreements. I believe, with good organization and good work, the Parliamentary committee should successfully complete these matters without any small difficulty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u80	Mr. President. I wondered as one looks at the top priority of the government, what respect it is, in fact, to the work being done within the council. These are issues involving even tens of millions of expenses each year. For example, in the case of the Government's priority list of issues considered appropriate for the end of the year, there is a new, unscheduled, significant change from the strategy adopted by the Parliament to us, probably greater change than anyone expected it to be planned for the program, and they call it a close examination by the panel. There won't be any time to file a case once. The stock of birth orcs, the ILS fund that affects another hundred billion in unsolved losses, remains undecided how to tackle that matter. It seems that the government is simply trying to pass through a lot of matters that she does not want the council to have time to discuss or pay attention in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u81	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson came up here and mentioned that it was unusual for members of Congress to be under much pressure. That's why I feel compelled to come up here to state that I'm not complaining about the pressures of the council. It's not because of the pressures I come up here, it's because we have to work on it, so we're going to turn over a suitable product from the committees. When the work is like this, we don't have time to read over the reviews that are coming on a magical narrative of a case that has been very short in the open language, despite having made sense in our lifetime contracts since our last session, you can't say: Why was the matter in the lifetime contract last spring - and not just one but two cases that were pushing into the council now - not reading about the words of consultation and turning the matter into the council in an acceptable way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u82	V.E.G. President. You see, it's best if we can take these matters a little mixed. I'm saying this because this fall, we were assigned to list our priorities. I had one such matter on a welfare committee that had to do with free oncology. It reminds me that another matter is a matter of perspiration, even a case involving the brain and the feelings of older citizens. The other is that we have a huge case, which is a birthed orlofs fund that is really supposed to drive through the council at the same time that we all want our problems. So I don't really think that's the kind of thing I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u83	A respectable president. Now we have to witness a familiar dance where traditional practices are just putting into high gear and driving everything through just before Congress runs out. You all know how to do it. A respectable president is familiar with what it's like. When that happens, the government needs to say, "Wait, just professional practice here, we're not going to drive through all at zero one, and we may have similar losses, as mentioned earlier. When this government was formed, there was talk of a change in practices. Part of the changed work done in this dance is that the government starts with a conversation, but not with the high gear and is running through and waiting for a reaction from the government position. It's just that way. It's the responsibility of the government not to start running all through to see if that violence works but to start by asking and talking and negotiating.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u84	A respectable president. Here, I recommend a bill to legalise the validation of 2018 in accordance with the laws on public finances. This account for 2018 is one of the accounts produced in accordance with an international government accounting standard called the IPSAS standard, with the deviations proposed by the three-year induction program. The year 2018 had a state account of a positive score of 84 billion in the year. Incomes totaled 828 billion. of which income was the sum of a value tax of about 237 billion dollars. and taxing on individual income and profits by 189 billion dollars. The budget of the budget was 780 billion, of which 303 billion, salary and pay-related fees of 209 billion and 41 billion were used, and the currency debt of pension was paid for 41 billion. Another cost was 187 billion, other taxpayers, such as funding, 19 billion, descriptions, and 19 billion. The financial expenditures above the budget were 56 billion, the interest rate was 77 billion, and the interest rate was 21 billion. Participation in the survival of partners and fellow workers was positive for 84 billion. A respectable president. The financial balance of the state's budget began to change substantially at the beginning of 2017 when it included • providing information on the state of the Union's budget and on the general basis of the budget and the financial status of the state's funds. The total financial balance of 31 December 2018 totaled 2,224 billion and 1,611 billion. So the money was positive about 613 billion and increased by 117 billion from the beginning of 2018. At the end of the year, the pay was 217 billion and increased by 29 billion each year. It should be noted that in accordance with the Public Remuneration Criteria, IPSAS, as mentioned earlier, the share of financial and financial contributions is published according to the financial status of GFS. Both methods are designed to ensure compliance and international control capacity. Thus, the contribution of the state funds according to government accounts is not comparable to financial and financial objectives. A special statement is now published in Article 9, where the result is stratified according to the GFS category of budgets and is positive about 38 billion and, therefore, less than 6 billion better than budgeted, i.e. in the 2018 GFS standard, the recovery was around 2018. 6 billion better than was expected in 2018. A respectable president. This government account shows the very strong position of the state funds. The coming of the year is positive, it's more than plan. The status of your own money is strong. The strong standing of the state funds is the result of the success that has been achieved over the past few years and leads to the continuation of a good - looking structure of the inside and the basic services of the State. I suggest that the bill be referred to the budget committee and to the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u85	A respectable president. A little classic for me, it says that by the year 2019 it's time to complete the wiretap of the state accounts of the remaining assets and debts that will meet the IPSAS and the like. In connection with this, I find it interesting about 2019 to have not received any answers about which property was brought to the State on account of the church meeting and what commitments are made to these assets first to be in accordance with the book in terms of government accounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u86	A respectable president. This account for 2018 is, as I noted, lighted in this standard with the specified exceptions, i.e. During the three - year period we have gradually to introduce the situation. This question is about an agreement with the church, asking for accurate interpretation of the property. It will just have to say, just as it is said in the reply of the day, this project seems to be very extensive and extremely complex, but in the end, a decision will have to be made on how to place it in the books of the State. I don't think this will be the only example of it, since there's some sort of opinion about exactly what it's right to make a price on the credit side of the account. It is possible to prepare for the introduction of a vacancy that may be considered. The task is in itself to think that over time we can discern if we are, for example, the kind of person we are. with a public investment to maintain the establishment of a government property or whether we are neglecting the necessary investment in order to maintain these assets. The idea is that we have a clearer picture of the actual state of public finance afterward. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's problem with these specific soils is that it is a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u87	A respectable president. So can we expect this to be completed by 2019 due to this induction process and such? Did the financial committee not have access to this in order to complete the answers to the questions that have already been raised?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u88	A respectable president. I have no other information but that this plan will pass. That was my last information when I inquired about it. I know this has not been a simple task, but we have started well and, in time, it should probably be the answer to the type of earth that has been attributed to it. A senator is asking, provided that the library can be set aside to cover the questions asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u89	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct any change in various tax laws (salvable vehicle, etc.).Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s The bill's on the roof. 596, 432th issue of the council. The bill suggests changes in terms of cost taxes and income taxes laws that aim to further facilitate transport by economic incentives, in line with the policy of the European Commission on these issues. By means of the bill, the government's ambitious aims in the form of the new temporary tax appeals to facilitate the walking of eco-friendly vehicles in transport using the related contractions of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the proposed changes to the present opportunities. I would also like to maintain the economic benefits it can achieve for us Icelanders not to have the energy for transport in this country to build on imported energy sources. The bill's proposals include... Their roots were attributed to the Treaty of the Treaty from November 2017 as well as to the strategy for energy exchange identified in the synonym of tourism, industrial and innovation to the strategy for energy exchange adopted at General Assembly on May 31, 2017. In the council arrangement, there was a minister. ................................................................................................................................ In addition, energy exchange will contribute to the growth of innovation and new job activity based on sustainable development. At the same time, the proposals of the bill are rooted in the government action programme on climates of 20183/4030, where the underlying goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to promote increased carbon dioxide binding, allowing Iceland to meet the target of the Paris Convention to 2030 and the government's goals on non-carbonization in the year 2040. One aspect of this is the significant increase in infrastructure as a result of transport electricalization by taxative motivation. Will now be taken into account by the individual proposals of the bill. First of all, a change in current interim regulations 24 is stated in the Act on VATs that require the use of valuable taxes from the cost of buying or importing electrical, hydrogen, or linking vehicles to the limit of the specific conditions being met. The bill is now suggested that the duration of the worthy taxes per provision for temporary 24 should be extended to the end of 2023. In this connection it is suggested that only the so - called pure energy vehicles, i.e. Power and hydrogen vehicles, should fall under the directive, not by linking automobiles, both equipped with combustion engines and electronic motors, thus being able to use both fossil fuels and electricity as energy sources. The change is thus designed to facilitate the walking of cleaner vehicles that now depend on the directive and to increase the visibility of the employer and others because of the purchase and sale of such vehicles. The change is in line with the government's energy exchange action programme, which aims to increase the share of national, renewable energy sources at the expense of fossil fuels. Secondly and in addition to the extension of the time of the indiscriminate nature of pure energy cars, which I reported, it is suggested that there will be an increase in the budget of taxation and tax obligation for the purchase of electric or hydrogen cars in accordance with the government's energy exchange programme. It is suggested that the current budget of the exception from the taxpayer should be made from July 1, 2020 6.5 million instead of 6 million, and in parallel, the cutoff limit of the cost taxes will be increased by the payoff of electrical and hydrogen cars from 1,440,000 k. of 1,560 K. The change is designed to further facilitate the movement of transport clean energy vehicles. Third, the cost of taxation for the automobile vehicle falls on December 31, 2020, as shown by the current law. The change is in harmony with the government's strategy of action, which shows that the risk is no longer valid until 2020, but such automobiles have been used in an attempt from the middle of 2012 when temporary regulations 24 were first legalized. An inference to a satellite vehicle vehicle has contributed to the development of services through energy exchanges, including quick stops in open areas, making the infrastructure more productive. However, in view of a large increase in the import and registration of the vehicle device during the last year in circulation, it may be expected that motor vehicle vehicles will become highly competitive by the end of 2020, including a high level of competitiveness at the end of 2020. looking at current services and planned development of infrastructure into loading stations around the country. Fourth, it is suggested that automobiles on temporary 24 law on cost taxes will be increasing. Today, every car has 10,000 automobiles. The bill suggests an increase in power and hydrogen vehicles in 15,000 automobiles and motor vehicles to 12,500. It has been concluded that if about 5% of the fleet uses a specific source of energy, it will create a basis for operating the service infrastructure on the basis of a private market. Recorded automobiles in Iceland on traffic at the end of 2018 were 255,000. If, as suggested today, we receive a tax payment at the end of the last year, about 5% of the registered automobiles are expected to be paid to pay taxes instead of 10,000. Fifth, new ambitions are proposed in the form of collapses of worthwhile tax taxes or taxpayers, to a certain extent, due to the import or taxable sale of motorcycles. So these are motorcycles driven by electricity or walking before hydrogen, light motorcycles driven by electricity and bicycle, i.e. Standard, unmoved bicycles, electric racing bikes, and electric racing wheels. To maintain harmony, a car's clean - powered vehicle, like a car and four wheels, is expected to enjoy similar indiscriminateness to that of a vehicle. It is expected that the maximum loss of worth taxation from electric wheels will be 96,000 k. ... 48,000K. For bicycles, but it should be noted that this amount was doubled according to reviews received under government consultation. A powered bike thus cost 496,000 bucks a day. Thus, in terms of worth taxation, the change, to another level, will cost 400,000 dollars. At that time, a traditional bicycle cost 248,000 bucks a day. ... withprecautional tax cost $200,000. after all the changes remain unchanged. The costs of light - wheeled vehicles and bicycles are reduced by the number of automobiles and by the number of people traveling in an eco-friendly manner. In this way, such integration contributes to environmental transport and reduction in transport emissions. Emphasis is placed on the aid of electric riding wheels, showing that motor - powered bicycles can be a standardist for automobiles and can lead to such a policy as driving vehicles. Of course, I would also like to mention a general public health reason to reduce taxation on traditional, non - electric bicycles. We all know that in the capital area and elsewhere, many people move by using either a mountain wheel, a street wheel, or a bicycle, as well as many people thus travel to and from work or simply to get around. I think it's safe to add the reasons I've listed in general public health reasons to support the changes in taxation of these vehicles. Sixth and seventh, it is suggested that current authority be given to reimburse the barley inhabitants and owners of an apartment building 60% of the worthy tax they have paid from human work in loading stations or in housing would be increased to 100%. At the same time, the inhabitants and owners of an apartment building are suggested to be granted permission to reimburse the valuable tax that has fallen for buying at loading stations in or in residences. Today, many apartment owners and houses in multisession houses hold back from implementing local loading sites because of its costs. The change is intended to respond to this and pay for the loading of posts in and apartments, such as in multi owned houses, with full reimbursement of both the job and the materials of such installations. The eighth category is suggested to provide staff members with permission to run a driver's rental, property rent, or financing property of the automobiles that meet temporary regulations 24 in the CREEP Act on VAT, i.e. Cars with eco-friendly properties, the avoidance of treaties. Clearly, today's electrical and linking vehicles are very limited. The change is intended, therefore, to encourage the car renters and the car owners who have property rent or financing rent out the eco-friendly vehicles that fall under provisional law 24 on cost taxes. Car rent is thus enabled to reduce the rent price of an eco-friendly car in its credit sheet. Nine is suggested to allow import or sale of a large - scale vehicle to drive a public car that uses methane, methadone, electricity, or hydrogen as energy sources to drop worth tax, or that uses emancipate resources only. There is no doubt that public transport energy exchange is of great importance in achieving government targets on greenhouse gas emissions, but emissions of carbon dioxide by road transport are largely part of Iceland's direct commitments to the Paris Convention. Today, groups of automobiles fall under provisional regulations 24 in the ESP, thus enjoying appeals like other automobiles. Group vehicles, on the other hand, receive a relatively low level demolition, a price far higher than a public vehicle. The bill therefore suggests that environmentally-friendly public vehicles will obtain full appeal for import and taxable sales until 100 such vehicles have been registered on the driver's license. In the 10th and last, it is suggested that the job union will be authorized to fully eliminate the prenup to the subsidies of the subsidies of vehicles that use methane, methane, electricity, or hydrogen only, provided that a new energy equipment is fully used in the tax-related activities of a legal or an independent person. Much of the importance of increasing the sector's incentive for transport energy exchange is thus contributing to the reduction in transport emissions of greenhouse gases. In particular, the bill on hurry-up is aimed at promoting energy exchange in the workplace by providing companies with a new kind of tax-based profits by choosing new energy equipment. A respectable president. It is quite uncertain, I have to say, on the scope of the investments of households and businesses, but it can be estimated, in general, that the effect of the production of the bill on the State's income side will be reduced by up to 1.5 billion in 2020 and up to 2.5 billion in the years 2021 servant23. In addition, proposals in the bill reduce the expenses of an investment in new energy automobiles and thus have a positive effect on the survival of rural society that can be estimated to be up to 200 million. K. Each year in the year 2020/202023. The wide range of proposals of the bill aims to speed up transport and the related reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by meeting homes and companies in many ways. In addition, giving any kind of wheel animosities has the side effect, as I've been doing here, encouraging more outdoors and movements, improving human health, and reducing road traffic, at least making it easier for them to choose such a life - style. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u90	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for history and for putting forth this fine thing. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to Alpha Team 2. that discuss the degradation of the value tax on loading stations of apartment housing. Has it ever been said that this too applies to a vacation house or to a vacation house? This could likely increase the use of such vehicles, and in some cases it would prevent people from having one car to get to their summer house safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u91	A respectable president. This may just be a typical case of opinion. A senator also points to this general question of reimbursement of a value tax on work at the site of repairs or new housing as we have discussed before. Here, in itself, it is spreading certain ideologies, which at the time came under the motto all work and were successful. We've gone from 100% to 60%, but the motivation in this system was very good. I can't answer this differently, so it is considered whether a person should have the same remuneration on any house, including a house of summer or so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u92	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In the second answer, I would like to move on to the numbers of registered vehicles that will enjoy the element, i.e. These 15,000 vehicles, to 2023. I just want to hear the highest perspective. Minister on whether or not the Minister of Minister would consider a reason to revise this number in the past and also to revise the laws of the law if it would be very fast to fill this quota. It's like the highest. A minister entered this area is only about 5% of the total fleet of citizens of the country, and it is hardly possible to claim that the full energy exchange will be achieved at the finish, but the government's income drop has not been so much that there is no reason to continue with in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u93	A respectable president. I can't deny that this is not a very scientific approach to this number, 15,000. We've been cleaning up with the crowd. However, it has been shown that the favors we have had in law have led to the fact that we Icelanders have been one of the most efficient people in taking into our automobile fleet of eco-friendly cars. For information on whether the population should be revised or extended, etc. I think we'll eventually have to watch the need for this impulse. Besides, I have to mention that we are reevaluating the entire supply system of vehicles and fuel so that, of course, I hope that the day will come as soon as possible that the production cost of environmental automobiles will be comparable or lower than that of the other automobiles, and thus the need for all these activities will disappear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u94	A respectable president. I watch public financial and financial laws and try to find the goals of this law to be achieved and to feel nothing except that they are working toward some objective in the climate program, nothing measurable there, so you can't follow along so closely whether these policy achieves the proposed goals. The report of a million tons published in 2017 when Björt Ólafsdóttir was referred to as environmental minister. In 2030, U.S. Navy excommunicators spoke of 10,000,200,000 newly registered cars every year. The bill's report shows that there are more registered trucks 2018 than 2014, 2015, etc. Although power cars also increased, we may be in just over 4,000 electric cars, far from the 100,000 needed for 2030 C.E. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u95	A respectable president. We have a higher goal on how fast we want to reduce total emissions, and then we break it down to individual sectors. For transportation in our country, we have goals that include goals. Supported by this case and by the ones we've previously put into law. As I have only dealt with matters, it is a challenge for the government to make this big system change, create the motivation, but maintain the ability of the system so that we do not go too far on the income institutions we use. to sustain transport in the country. This is a bit of a bit of a monopoly, and the committee I mentioned earlier has been given a huge task to guide us along this path. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u96	A respectable president. The question is simple: Are we successful in these changes? What is our objective, and with that change to that end? How does this offset our efforts and costs from the commitments and costs we make? This is what the government needs to understand in all this account about, for example. Our climate commitments. Really, the question is simple: Do these actions make us part of the place we said we were going?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u97	A respectable president. I believe I have reasoned in my case that these changes will help. We cannot answer that question in advance. Economics are not science, they are social sciences, and they can give clues as to what people will do in the event that there is a measure of motivation. You can't put in advance a complete head count on how many people will buy a car, how many will buy a loading station, how fast it will happen, and how many loading stations have been placed in an apartment building in 2025. However, we do know that with the right motive, we are affected. business behavior. I've mentioned here today that our methodology is to have, for example, one. high prices in cars that are more polluted, fuel expenditures, and in favour of cost taxes, and remunerations for eco-friendly automobiles have resulted in second place, and sometimes I have heard the numbers at 1 place for the growing eco-friendly automobiles in the Navy. [[The president calls.]] It's a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u98	President. First, I want to commend what is well done. It is a pleasure to see that other factors are being looked into, such as dropping worth tax on bicycles and electric bikes to a certain extent. This contributes to the greater growth in transport practices. On the other hand, when I listen to the highest, I stop for a bit. Undersight the fear that economic catalysts are working too well, that we are even over-reaching, and therefore we are always taking some kind of defense, such as that there are no more automobiles in question than x. I would have thought we should be happy if the results were greater than we were. My first question to the highest. A minister is this, in view of the fact that the majority of eco-friendly cars in recent years have been involved in linking cars, whether it is too hard to stop them from wanting them in just one year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u99	A respectable president. For the previous enemy team, it can be said that a person would like to be cautious by putting a roof on a large number of automobiles in favor of injury. But I think it's only honest to send out a message that we're trying to produce a change and that went well. We do not view the change as a permanent one, nor do we want to send out that message. It should not be surprising that we are going through a transition phase that hopefully ends with the use of eco-friendly cars, and then the cost of manufacturing will be lower and comparable to the cost of other automobiles so that the need for these extremes will gradually disappear. As long as we're in this uncertainty, we're dosing in the number and setting a time limit for the timelines for the changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u100	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Although I understand the reasoning, I think we're still quite far away from the point where we need to worry about too much success. On the contrary, we need to do much more in that regard. But it may be about my second question to the highest degree. Minister. Now it is clear that when it comes to energy exchange in public transport, we have a lot to gain in energy exchange, a single electric waste is on the road of 50 fuel cars, at least. Only to replace the fleet as it is at the bus today would be to take your 6 to7. road vehicles, which put them above fossil fuels. I'm certainly celebrating what's done there, but it's still very slow energy exchange in public transportation. I wonder if some form of subsidence has been considered, or perhaps even more, against the payment of older automobiles to speed up energy exchanges in public transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u101	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself answer my previous answer. I'd like to point out that we had a temporary appeal, and we're not extending it. But it's a matter of opinion. We're counting, for example. in the case more clean to have a date than to rely on the number, allow the date to be used rather than the number of times. For example, when it comes to public transportation and buses, or groups of automobiles, it is an enormously expensive tool. It takes a lot of attraction, because of the high cost of these equipment in shopping, to remember something. It is quite impressive to swallow for the entire group of vehicles in the country and for all public cars to provide general appeals with complete delinquency and worth taxation. It would be a very big bite to swallow for the Kingdom. But here's at least started with a certain step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u102	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. It is true to praise well done, these are happy steps to be taken, and so be joyful. I'd like to ask about two things, one on the other, about a discount of expenses or a merit tax that is being given these losses that are supposed to encourage the behavior of our citizens. Car shops are among those who buy these cars, and I ask: " Will it somehow be possible to make sure that the benefits of such automobiles are available to the consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u103	A respectable president. I took a little thought in my background that it was at least two hours ago. Allowing space for lower prices in the rental market, but it seems to me that in recent years men have gone through quite a bit of swing. We have seen in the import number that the rental fleet has become enormous, and the number of tourists in the current year has undoubtedly affected something on the market. I'll mention this because I guess the answer to this question will ultimately be determined by whether there's enough competition on this market. As always, supply and demand are in charge. This will eventually hold hands with the demand. Do we have enough loading network to allow tourists to view taking an electrical vehicle as a practical option and to have enough low enough money to allow this to be their option? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u104	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Then there's the other question I'd like to ask. Now the news is coming in, and it's been in auto shops for a lot of years, that people are experimenting with electricity in similar ways in airplanes and cars. There is going to be some big progress, and forecasts indicate that we can begin to see even commercial aircraft, smaller to begin with, but larger, which can be totally powered by electricity. It is of interest to people who want to learn that in British Columbia, western Canada, a company called Harbour Air under Gregur Mcdougalls is going to do flight tests at 750 kilowatts or a horsepower on a small plane estimated to be a passenger flight. I think this is a very exciting option that could benefit Iceland for the same reasons as with other vehicles or vehicles. I recommend that this bed only be extended, expanded to the point of talking about vehicles rather than vehicles alone. The question is, Can we expect Icelandic pilots, pilots, or pilots, to enjoy similar degradation or motivation in the tax system to get such aircraft back to the country if these technologies prove to be effective?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u105	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says that this is an exciting development. We've seen news from Norway on small two-sized machines, and recently I was looking at some kind of flying value being produced in Germany aimed at flying 300 miles with five people. So there are further examples, I've heard before that electric commercial aircraft will be possible in the air 2025 or so, and I can only say yes that if the government sees an opportunity to bring in the element when it comes to clearing the path for this development, I feel that it must come up as an opinion. Once again, I would like to point out how exciting it is for us Icelanders to be able to drive, such as. domestic flights, only with our own energy, and risking the import of francing aircraft fuel.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u106	A respectable president. I'm with continued speculation after an answer, but the secretary of finance talked about economics, how it was social science, and how everything, etc, could not be taken care of, which is absolutely accurate. On the other hand, we insist that governments set goals and show them their goals. Even if economics then land somewhere else in plus or minus then we see it black in white every government was planning to achieve by the use of the public funds they contribute to that direction. This is the fundamental law on public finances that we've been discussing here recently in connection with the payment of budgets, and this bill is exactly one of the measures listed in a financial program designed to achieve government goals. But because government goals are extremely lacking, as I mentioned, not in accordance with government laws, we cannot measure it while the law is in effect, until they reach their goals, whether they are heading in the right direction or not, whether it is more lacking, if it is overworked, or if it is all right, whether there is more progress or less, and so on the streets. I'm saying this because it's really different. It's okay to set goals that are not achieved, that's fine. We should not criticize it on a high - sounding tone in a hall because we should see it clearly as to whether the goal is to be reached or not. And then we can take action to change, either by saying that this has been a more difficult and more complex example than we anticipated, and there are plenty of data that can be proposed for it or by taking extra measures because the benefits far outweigh those of not achieving them. I still don't feel that we're in the right way about public financial laws. There's a bit of a donation in this case. It is certainly a matter of reviewing certain developments here on page 20. 6 about the number of human energy-registered cars; gas, gas/methan, gas/magnesium and all down to electricity and hydrogen/magnesium. It is interesting to see exactly what this report I mentioned earlier about a million tons, what it takes to live up to the commitments we have made. In this report, this is simply divided: We need to achieve 100,000 exhaust - free cars by the year 2030 to live up to these commitments, by the way, in relation to reaching these million tons. Is that a realistic goal? Is that something we are going to get? If we say no, we're just gonna get 75,000, we're gonna have to do better somewhere else. That's the discussion we should be in here. In this operation, we should predict for the next year what is the desired number until, for example, the date expected. 2030 to achieve goals that should be the objective of the government if this commitment is to be met. We can see right away in 2020 and 2021 how we aim in that direction. If we are under that standard, there may be evidence to support it. Yes, it may have been overestimated for these years, but we expect the numbers to change over the years because we now have a larger network of loading stations, such as. and become more incentive for people to resort to this, and we see prices on markets, something like that, making the automobiles cheaper, which should lead to higher numbers than expected in the years that follow. If we do not see any subsequent changes, we need to take further action. This should be the case, but it is not granted to us because governments do not put these goals ahead of financial goals, as they should. Therefore, it is very difficult to have discussions about measures such as these and financial and financial schemes as they do, because the discussion is about government policy, about the costs and benefits it provides, and whether the measures it puts to achieve them are sufficiently strong or if there are other measures that are less important or easier to do so. Thus, instead of resorting to suitable doctrine to provide and demand, we find an opportunity to reach the goals we have set and fulfill, e.g. International commitments on climate matters, not to mention the rights of people to government and decision-making committees and so on. We should set specific goals, including the time of the decision - making committees, the time of treatment, and the like. You see, it is all very similar, and we need to link our actions with the goals that governments set out to achieve, especially to associate them with the funds laid down for them. Only in this way can we determine whether the choice of one action was beneficial. It is the way we should pursue politics in my opinion, and the laws on public financial matters really add the lines in this regard. But we're not proding it at the moment, a respectable president. As well as this bill looks, I don't know what the benefits will be. I don't even know how much it's worth. If I don't know what is expected from government action, I can't ask myself after: Was this a good procedure or wasn't it? I can't tell how evolution would have been without these changes. It's a basic view. We are always putting on a basic set of motions, and if we do this, the scene changes toward this, toward one way or another, the objective of the government. If we engage in some other procedure, the scene will change in a different way. In that sense, all of this looks fine, but in the end, we are simply guessing that we will succeed. We do not know if we will succeed, but we may have some results. I don't like the law we're trying to work for, that we have to guess that we're achieving the goals we're going to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u107	A respectable president. In my introduction, I noted that this bill is rooted in the Treaty and in the Constitutional Action Programme on Energy Change, but in addition to the fact that we base the bill on the government's action programme on climate issues 20183/42030 and in these programmes, both in the Parliament's resolution and in the climate change strategy, there are goals. They are quite clear, and so I take down the government's action programme on climate change is described in the section of road transport energy exchanges that will be attacked in the energy exchange at road transport, with the end of the use of fossil fuels, but instead new domestic electricity and climate - free fuels, such as hydrogen, methadone, and biofuels, are referred to as being the same initiative as we had in the 20th century regarding house warming. The listed measures are expected to help reduce road transport emissions by half or more to 2030, relative to the current level. In this program, we refer to various activities, the coincidences for climate-friendly cars and fuel. It speaks of carbon pay and electrical infrastructure support, as well as other eco-friendly automobiles and construction and planning regulations, etc. It can be noted that in this strategy the measures we are here to take are addressed. This bill is not a plan of action, it is the operation itself, a procedure based on the Treaty, this council resolution of the 2017 energy exchange and the government action programme on climate change. [[The president calls.]] There are goals we are working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u108	A respectable president. It is remarkable that the exact procedure does not completely rhyme with, for example. The report of a million tons is still lacking in total fill. I asked specifically how successful this action would be at that end. That information is missing. The actions themselves are neither costly nor lucrative, i.e. the benefits of each procedure. It is said that we will achieve certain results for the year 2030, and we will make a list of measures. I ask you, what is required for an operation and how effective is each operation? That is the missing answer. Without knowing how successful this whole operation is, it is much more difficult for us to talk about the money that is well spent. If this were to reach 90% of our expectations, it would be great and would probably be a very good use of public funds in relation to those figures. But I have no idea, and that's what I'm complaining about in order to take up a discussion about the results and benefits of the use of tax money, which is exactly to be mentioned in the Minister's annual reports. How did this work out? What was the basis for the use of tax money? This should be mentioned in annual reports by the minister. If it is not stated the basis for any action, we cannot ask whether it has worked or not. You can always say, "It went great." We don't know what the results were going to be, but we did great. That's not the right tone, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u109	A respectable president. I think this discussion is primarily about how accurate the strategy should be. Here we are talking about reducing about half of the emissions of fossil fuels. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that many of our goals are somewhat public, such as. to increase the number of environmentally friendly automobiles in the Navy. It's a general procedure. If you want to call for the exact number to which the number of eco-friendly vehicles are involved, then the answer is: Just as many as possible. However, I don't know if there was much work to be done by going to as closely a goal as possible. There's a senator calling for it. I don't think it would go wrong, even if it might be good for the follow-up. A senator is talking about. Then there is one factor: differing views about what is good and how fast change is acceptable. Some feel, as we hear in the climate discussion, that everything has to be done right away, tomorrow, it should simply be banned from automobiles burning fossil fuels while others say it will take time. I hear the point, I think it's about that we don't have accurate operations. That can be said at all times, but the exactness of humans is always taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u110	A respectable president. I'm pointing out that there's nothing, at least not with regard to the action--in the struggle exactly-to-date, I am somewhere between you and me. I'm not asking for 234 cars to be electric cars next year or 2034. We're talking scale. We're talking about a space, a peak, and a minimum or something like that. All I'm asking for is putting the goals on paper instead of having none. It is only when we can begin to be specific. I expect a lot of inaccuracies at first, but there is always more accuracy than having nothing to aim for. That's all I'm calling for. Also, it is always possible to talk about how fast the change is desirable, etc. if we keep it in front of us. If this is the rate of change we expect and are going to achieve, we can talk politically about whether it's right or wrong acceleration or something like that. While we have nothing in front of us, however, we cannot even talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u111	Madam President. I want to thank you again. A minister for the contributions of this case, fine history, and the obvious will of the government, which is presented in this bill to do something seriously in climate matters and to provide the motivation that is needed for us subjects to choose the right and most suitable solutions for the future and for the climate. I mentioned in answer to the highest. A minister of a few things earlier that I'm just going to expand or talk a little more about. First of all, I mentioned the summer houses and, including, other human dwellings with the loading stations. There are more views than just the fact that people should be allowed to set up bases for all suspects. This also points to the fact that in order to avoid being equipped with vehicles that are electrically powered in the future, it is of great importance that humans have access to loading stations in most places. Thus, the General has decided to prepare his parking lot so that, in part, there are loading stations so that they can load their cars here and get back on electricity. This is important in terms of reduced battery loads in such a car that reduces stress and also reduces environmental costs of battery disposal or recycling at the time. So there are some views that come in, but I'm confident that they will. The Economic and Business Committee will look at these issues. Also regarding the number of automobiles, this bill suggests that it is, for now, 15,000. There we are, as I was able before, with relatively small numbers or small share in the national total vehicle fleet. V.E.G. A minister made it clear that, of course, all of this must be part of the thought we are about to have in the context of total energy exchange. At some point, we'll probably have to pull out the indiscriminates of these cars and hopefully, like the highest. In fact, a minister came in earlier, it will be so expensive that those automobiles will be as expensive or even less expensive in manufacturing than those fueled by fossil fuels. I'd like to last mention something that isn't on the bill, but maybe it would have been a reason to look specifically, especially in the light of the recent discussion, that record cars and the use of the record have not reached the expected flights. Like what? Councilmen know the use of methadone is a very good way to prevent greenhouse gas production - or it may not be appropriate to say it, so that it is an obstacle to the production of greenhouse gases, but other versions of the less active, less dangerous, atmosphere. It should be taken into consideration at any time. The Committee on the Management Board should consider that the preparation of the Agency should be applicable to the same thing. There would also be some sort of indignities to try to further the development of this process. I think I remember correctly that it is next year that the gas station in Sorphine in the capital area is taking up full force. I hope I'm not wrong about the latest news of that station. It will be important, but it will also matter that we have real incentives to put up wood there, not just a impulse to drive ourselves. It all matters, and I think I know the committee is going to review it. Mr. President. How happy we are that this bill is being introduced and that we are taking this very important step in the environment-friendly supply of energy and then we are walking in the direction of being as much as possible enough about energy on the vehicles we choose to travel on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u112	Madam President. Interesting point as a what. A senator will be included in the evaluation and the use of evaluating. It is true that this seems to have gone a little slower than was hoped for. It is prepared in Akureyri, and in Reykjavík, and if I recall correctly, the metropolitan facility that the village intends to set up on Eelfunes, by the way, can produce up to 3,500◯4,000 cars. There may be 600 to700 cars that can be driven on a record in Akureyri. In fact, there are three buses that are being driven on methadone, and this may be related to the discussion in the past with buses and long cars, using energy sources such as electricity and methadone. So I'm assuming that's what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson will then enter it -- he is a member of the Economic and Business Committee himself and he is to present the case there -- and he has a good look at these matters at the committee. Methane, estimating, or processing, is correct in evaluating this is a greenhouse product that is 20◯21 times more reactive than CO 2, so this is interesting. We have quite a chance in Iceland to make better use of estimate as energy. I'm just a little sharp. To get a good look at this, a senator may obtain data on this subject. The focus on electricity has been high, and the question is, Should the committee look at some potential for increasing the spread of estimate so that others can take advantage of it as energy for cars and larger instruments?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer from Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. I'll certainly take the record at night. It is especially important to have, such as a dog, a committee. The senator came in, big cars with big equipment in mind. It is further that large machinery, such as public transportation, bus, and others, is made to make it easy to use huge batteries on them. For example, if you had something to do to keep them moving, you would gain a lot of weight by means of such equipment. However, it is good to have in the hand of a source of energy, such as the estimate of a domestic energy source, and despite evaluating carbon fuels, it is so much worse as a greenhouse gas than its metabolites after burns, i.e. carbon dioxide and water.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u114	Madam President. I know there's a lot of fun and important things to think about in these matters, like with buses. I was reviewing this when a man was standing at the country level, and we were looking at the situation on buses. One bus is referring to about 50 cars, so when we are evaluating the abundance of buses and large equipment, it is a huge deal of climate, making use of the estimate. Of course, burning is desirable rather than being released into the atmosphere during the process, but there is clearly considerable potential. Then we have a chance, such as in manure on large cows. In Iceland, most of the mallets that might be involved in estimating are related to cow manure or pig excrement. South and Eyjafjörður, there is considerable potential. You want to have density, big cage, preferably 10 miles radius. I've only read articles or master types that are involved, and there's a lot of potential. It is a question of whether the committee can find further motivation to see if there is any possibility for further application. What works against this in Iceland is probably our electricity is a good thing and so much of it. We can use electricity in a relatively favorable way through the electricity. But I think it's true that we don't forget to take advantage of all the advantages that can relate to the assessment of the climate through transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u115	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, the senator is probably right. On the other hand, the opinion I have made and the others I have made about gas as a source of energy may be that it is primarily in the Eyjafjörður area and in the Southland subterranean region, which is enough of enough land to produce it. We are, like I've been in speeches before at the council, just so few. It may not be quite the same as in other lands. However, for the sake of fun, I believe it was in 2010, rather than 2011. paritaprevir Arndís Soffía Sigurðardóttir, along with me and other members of Congress, moved on. It was not enough, but it went to a committee, and there were some comments about it back then. But perhaps we need to watch all the factors when we're wondering how we're going to go into these energy exchanges and look for ways to figure out how to use domestic energy sources to drive as many of them as possible, machines, automobiles, etc. which we'd like to have in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u116	Madam President. It is proper to commend what is being done well in this matter. As I mentioned, we answered at the highest. It's a pleasure to see a bicycle under here, that they're allowed to be extra taxed with a certain amount of money, though. It's a fine addition to the eutrophication system we already have on transport energy exchange. It is clear that if we are going to reach the goals of energy exchanges we have set for ourselves - and that our goals are not even ambitious enough - it takes quite more to come about. Like I said to the highest. The Anti-Semitic Minister always feels that the Ministry is a bit of a go-getter. As soon as there are suggestions for the kind of injury we are discussing here, there seems to be more underlying fear that it will work than it will not work. Consequently, despite the obvious fact that both energy exchanges are such tremendous national benefits for us, for in most cases we are switching from imported energy sources to domestic energy sources, in the case of electricity at least and methadone and hydrogen, as well, and most important, we have a huge commitment to the climate on how we will reduce emissions, and we know that it will result in the cost of considerable funds to buy necessary emissions if we do not reach them. As a result, it may take a great deal of effort to achieve satisfying results, and I would like to see more ambition in that subject. I wanted to mention a few points for meditation in that context. I see no reason to have the number of limits on the wills, that we take that step. It is quite clear that these elements, in particular the loss of the value of imported automobiles, are temporary and are mainly involved in the development of considerably more expensive automobiles than in general and when cars are being driven by fossil fuels. That is still a fact, and while so, there is no reason to limit these indiscriminates to time or to number. Once we're seeing real and substantial results of transport energy exchange, it would be possible to take into account ourselves as to whether it would be appropriate for us to compromise the intentions of this system of things. It is also quite clear, when it comes to the discussion of a 5% ratio sufficient for the necessary infrastructure, that we aim pretty slowly into the infrastructure yet, and I don't think there is any reason to resort to the limitations of these yet. It's an independent debate, like the highest. A minister came into his speech, how we revise the system of reimbursement and, in fact, a long time in connection with all the discussions that have been in the winter on expenses, or not a charge to complete this discussion once and for all. Clearly, the nature of the situation as described by environmental automobiles is also supposed to depend on the cost of maintenance and restoration of the road system. The public self is another factor that I think about, that the state has an ambitious policy in energy exchange, in investments in environmental transport. That would be, for example. It's a pleasure if we see the Ministers more and less driving on electric automobiles instead of linking automobiles today. A legitimate criticism has been made that the size of a vehicle link is a slight precipitousness to the environment at least. These are automobiles that travel very short distances in the shock - free zone, but they drive primarily on fossil fuels. The government should just switch out the Ministers or the Ministerial Armada - I'd rather not be in a mood if the councilmen were to be replaced, but it'll be over in time. The fleet could be divided into electric ministers or electric ministers and kept only on hand by automobiles that can drive longer distances if ministers have to rush ashore, and they can be shared as well as we know the security between ministers; not all of them have to have their own cars. The State should also take the lead in setting clear targets for energy exchange in its own vehicle fleet. That goal should be very ambitious, so we take relatively faster action and in a few years we could replace the majority of the fleets of cars owned by the State with environmental benefits. V.E.G. In his speech about public transportation and automobiles, a minister entered into it that there was an enormous investment for the company. We see that real energy exchange is very possible. The bus runs about 160 groups of automobiles in public transport, and I think less than 30 are considered environmentally friendly electric or metal cars, including ten cars scheduled for next year. It follows that it will take several years for the fleet to move on, so I wondered if we should even go further. Instead of attaching the appeal solely to the low-cost in the import of automobiles, you could pick up some kind of redundant system, such as we have sometimes resorted to when we want to speed up these changes, i.e. that we simply contribute strength to older and environmental fires in this context. In fact, in view of the significant delay in the sales of new cars in the recent stages, which, of course, slow down this energy exchange process all over us, would it not be appropriate to record some such arrangement for very poor older cars still in circulation? It is best to remember that we still have a very large fleet of very expensive automobiles brought in in in 2008◯2009, before the price - charge system was changed. A significant benefit may be to support the removal of them by means of fire - fire grants aimed at some kind of emissions target as such. It would interest me to speed up energy exchange even more than it does. In short, there are many things that are fine on the bill, but we should not be afraid of the results, just to encourage him, and to welcome him if we catch him and celebrate the temporary cost involved. In time, the cost of the rest is so much greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u117	Madam President. There are a lot of people who smell that way. One of them is the national benefit or the practicality of using domestic energy. When I was looking at this some year ago, there was the shopping price on oil and gasoline in the national cars about 30 to 40 billion. If we take it as a share, it could be 2◯3% of currency income. It may show some variables, but it's important to point this out. The share may have been 101⁄215%, so it would have been even more fun to have domestic energy at the time. Of course, it strengthens the nation's economy. It strengthens the crown, our fine currency. All of this helps in this context. My experience of using a link car for five years is that about 75% of the time, or of a motor miles, are in the vehicle's link, even though it is only 40,650 miles [40,250 km]. It's just that day - to - day driving, it's good for you to connect. I have full faith that electric cars are the next step in more expensive cars, such as. The Ministers' cars. The trucks are like this between steps, Volvo, Benz and these major manufacturers, e.g. All the cars will be electric cars in 2023 or 2024. It's only four, five years. We will see an enormous change in time. It is also said that these vehicles will be separated from other cars and will probably be less expensive than conventional cars within very few years. I think it's very exciting what's about to happen in this. It is also important to bear in mind that a global load of 90◯95% is being carried out. [[The president calls.]] We've done a lot of work on building loading stations on all these last semesters and doing more, but it's about to take out the battery of electrical cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u118	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm very attracted to link trucks myself. I fear that we may be rushing too quickly to eliminate injury from them by doing so right at the end of the next year. The majority of new automobiles that are being brought in and enjoying these elements are motorized automobiles, perhaps even more suitable for modern use. Of course, the automobiles are changing very fast, and their numbers are growing more and more. What I meant is that in the larger cars the picture is a little more complex, since these are large and heavy cars where the load is effective. In smaller link trucks, the benefits of a car within a town are quite smart, I know it well, where a considerable draught of total driving can be driven to electricity. But there is a great increase in ambition and the economic gain, as it were. A senator came on, is not as much as the relative value of our currency as he would have been a few years ago, yet he is still a significant one. The savings could be considerable. Of course, the big thing is that we need to be much more ambitious in behalf of the environment. We're just so lucky, and we have the privilege of turning our economic interests and environmental interests together completely in these areas. As a result, we are expected to be far more ambitious than other nations in taking on the full and exerting of these changes over a few years, for we will reap a much more economic harvest, first and last in the interest of the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u119	Madam President. Hv. A senator only stepped onto the big devices. You're absolutely right. When I was in the town of Akureyri, where we were looking at the buses, I recall that the traditional oil road car, the diesel Street bus, may have cost 30 million. The Methane was 530,60 million two, three years ago, and the electric bus was 80,990. These are enormously expensive devices, but they have declined much since then and quickly. But it's absolutely true that with the large appliances, I think, let's just say it's a long way to travel services and such, in order to be maintained. I agree with what. Senator. You see, I'm a little worried that we're doing it too early to take the freaks off the trucks. I would've wanted to take a look at it, and hopefully a financial and business committee will go through it, where it will be. A senator sits, evaluating it in some context and producing evidence as to whether it's too early. That would be very good. Then there is one thing I would like to mention. We were discussing the Methane earlier. There are stations that can make liquid fuel possible. Then we're talking about ships and other things that could be useful that could be of great interest to us. I don't know the cost of an energy unit, but it might be very interesting for Icelanders to consider the possibilities in this context. But I reiterate that the point may be that I've been a little worried about whether we're uninactivating these indiscriminates too early from the linking trucks because I think this is a little psychological step that the public is taking, and we're taking first to them before we take the big step that's going over on a clean electric truck or other advantages. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u120	Madam President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. I think we agree on these factors. It's like a whisk. A senator came on very interestingly with larger devices in particular. Perhaps there is a chance to attack the park first in public transportation. As I came to answer the highest. Minister before, and what. A senator also repeated, so each electrical car is like replacing 50 fossil fuel cars. If we take the whole bus and turn into electricity, it's 6,000 to 77,000 automobiles. There are four times as many power cars in the country as they are recorded today, I think, at least, those that have been sold in the past five years or so. So there is still much to do. There I think it is safe to take more pride, though it may be quite at the beginning because we have only so much benefit to attend and are also a fine example of showing off into society. Then we need to focus on factors like energy exchange in agriculture and how we can solve such issues. Then there are even more complex subjects, such as energy exchanges in our tugs. It is a pleasure to see the success of the fishing route, either because of the saying of the system and the reduction of ships, but also also because of large investments in naval wastes that we used to get used to, new screw technology, etc., but we need to look to the long - term ways in which we can maneuver so much that the sea route can attack real energy change, not just a shrink in emissions. There are many interesting opportunities, and I felt that we were doing too little at this point in caring for needed research and preparation for such changes, and we were able to go much further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u121	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 597, No. 433. This is a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1193, the contract on the labour conditions of bovine farming is being revised. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. Its primary objective is to agree on the changes in the contract on the conditions of cattle breeding that were written under 25th of October. and Protocols to the agreement that was signed under the 26th of November. The Convention is a review of the contract on the labour conditions of cattle farms from February 19, 2016, which was signed, as it was now, with a warning of the approval of the General of the necessary legal change and the approval of the European Union of cowers and Iceland's Farmer Association for votes. The agreement removed the deletion of the total payment target required in the contract and will therefore continue to apply the duration as a reference for bone payment. It will then be reimbursed starting in 2020 and based on the market, which is the same marketing arrangement as set in 2001-2016. There will be certain restrictions on the transactions that will be further implemented in the Regulation. Rising emphasis is placed on climate, and in the agreement the goal is that Icelandic bovine farming will be fully tied up by no later than the year 2040. It will then show that the preparations of milk prices will be reviewed on certain grounds and that the work force will submit no later than May 1, 2020. In addition, there will be an appointed task force who will have the responsibility of reviewing including: the ideas of adaptability agreements and increased support to smaller habitats and assess the need for action on areas where production has been linked. It should be noted that it was estimated that a vote among the local community of Iceland's Farmers and the National Association of Cows was being held in the days 20-◯29. November. However, due to the dissatisfaction of a certain section of farmers with the agreement made, a vote was postponed on the Iceland Farmer Association. As a result, votes will be completed only on December 4 of the next. Because of this, the above book was made with the agreement. Even she says so. that in January 2020, the European Commission shall take a position on whether to put maximum prices on paymentmarks on the first market of the year on the basis of markets. First, the bill suggests changes to 53rd pars. The law has to do with what was agreed on in the aforementioned agreement. It is suggested that the payment of a payoutmark be canceled and that the exchange of funds will be done through the market. Secondly, adjustments to 54th pars are proposed. The law forbids all communications to pay milk markets on the market. However, there is the permitted payment of a paymentmark between lawmakers owned by the same parties as for the changes or registration in the case of married couples or partners. The market price will be based on balance prices, i.e. what becomes when the supply is equal to demand, or the lowest price on which steady-state levels can be sold and purchased. The maximum amount to be purchased per market, in addition to a minister's permission to get the Commission's proposal to set maximum prices on the market if the prices on the market become abnormal taking into account the oer, demand, and the circumstances in other respects. The share of the manufacturer must be no more than 1.2% of the annual milk paymentmark and it is expected that 5% of the pay market will be due recently. The secretary's recommendation for the implementation of markets in the Regulation may be that such regulations have now been introduced into open consultations with the government's confidentiality. As considered above, the primary objective of the bill is to agree on the change in the work conditions of cattle breeding that was signed under October 25th. In accordance with the terms of the current contract, the National Institute of Farmers made a vote in 2019 regarding the removal of the greeting system from January 1, 2021, as agreed on by the existing contract. Pad 89.4% of the milk manufacturer's votes using a continued quota system. Thus, the arrangement allows payment markets to stay as a host that ensures priority to domestic markets and as a reference to bone payment. The proposed impact of the changes in cow farm environment proposed by the bill is thought to contribute to the development and innovation of bovine culture. The contract contains changes requiring changes in existing agricultural laws and as a result can only be carried out by law. If the bill remains unchanged, it does not require additional expenses for government funds, it is merely a transfer of funds within the current contract on the working conditions of cattle farming. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject, and I'd like to refer to the report that follows, which contains a detailed discussion on the subject of the bill. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u122	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the historical history of this bill of change in agricultural products. I'd like to ask the Minister about what appears in Article 2. where it is suggested that the market for milk payment market be established and that trade will be based on a marketing programme valid for 2011-2016, i.e. the market with a paymentmark that needs to buy a milk market or that is offered for sale. The market will be based on balance prices and if market development becomes abnormal taking into account the availability, demand and circumstances in other respects, it is expected in the agreed date of day 25 October 2019 that a minister will be allowed, at the request of the contract agreements to set the maximum price on payment targets. It is then suggested that the Minister in Regulation recommend the further implementation of a postmark, priority, replacements and further details of the implementation or variation of the registration of the paymentmark. Then I would like to ask the minister from then on: " Where would a minister consider entering the market or under what circumstances or at what level?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I can in itself have ideas of what level I might think the Ministry will take a stand on this market, but we have agreed with farmers on the basis of an arrangement for the construction committee of the domestic agreements, where three representatives of the petition and three representatives of the state will offer a proposal to a minister after the market assessment of the situation. I will decide on the basis of my decision to accept the proposal that comes from that day because I expect the Commission to work on farm contracts to gain information and to make a realistic assessment of the price of development on this market before the first market, expected to be, if I recall correctly, April 1. It is the arrangement that has been negotiated, and I must be sure that this fine committee and the fine ones there will put forth effort to make a well - thought - out suggestion that I take into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u124	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this response, when it appears that he consults with the Commission contracts for the position that might arise. It is of utmost importance that if this bill succeeds in the article and that of its various sizes, it can be a pleasure because you know it from another world, the world of peyote in the seaside, that it has developed in a way that reduces the number of people. Now I think it's more or less to blame for us politicians, another story. I thank the Minister for this answer and have said no further questions but, of course, as I sit on a professional committee, keep an eye on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again. He mentioned in his second answer if the bill was done. I hope we're in the same place, me and what. A senator, in it. I feel very strongly that this bill is being done, especially in view of the fact that 90% of the people working on this article are very much continuing to change the arrangement of the 2016 agreement. And, yes, I certainly hope that there could be a measure of agreement, to form the book that we made after the agreement for the reason that we were going to lose a little weight on the pressure that had even been. induces a vote for the contract to be postponed, even though the prayer director had agreed otherwise. We respected it well, and I expect it could lead to a better understanding of the matter than it was in progress. It is in the agreement that we made with farmers various factors that are subject to inhibiting compression. I mention, for example, the limit to the maximum share of payment targets, maximum amount offered on every market, etc. There are factors in the agreement that are supposed to resist an enormous conglomeration in this process, but as members of the Parliament know, it has become great in recent years, and the industry has actually gone through quite a lot of transitions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u126	Madam President. Blessedly, the articles have done well and continue to increase through a number of changes and even more simple rules. I think they realize I must come up here and ask the highest. Minister. For one thing, I ask, why is the deal, which has not yet been approved, not included in the bill? The contract normally sheds light on certain factors and grounds and on the way the government has approached the contract. I would have certainly wanted to see the government take advantage of the opportunity and consider other factors, but I would also like to commend a minister for the fact that various aspects of the contract are involved. So I think it would have been an improvement to have him with you as an accessory. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether he took it on his own to eliminate the milk industry's exception from competitive law whether he has said: part of this review is that we sign a contract that the milk industry is completely subject to competitive legislation. I'd like to know if the Independent Party government, forwards and left greens took up that competitive business because it's being reexamined the livestock contract, this part that concerns cow farmers. If we're looking at the controversial agreement made in 2016 - there's a lot of good at that contract, I think it can be totally subtracted -- it's still being followed, maybe right. Cow towns were given this space to decide whether to bring down the naval system, 2021, but a significantly greater part of them refused, and a minister is following it. But there's clearly more that was pulled in there. In my first answer, I'd like to know if a minister has taken the initiative to eliminate these measures at the milk market which give particular opportunity to one company a complete monopoly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer was made by a senator, who was somewhat involved. I don't know why the deal isn't a copy of the bill, but there's no problem, it can be brought to the council and to the pro board when it is treated by the bill. He's no secret, I thought he'd been properly introduced when we took care of it. In itself, I do not know why he is not involved, but he is not locked in a drawer or anything like it. Like what? A senator mentioned various aspects of this matter. On the other hand, I am pointing out that we have a legal review code for the 2016 contract, which goes to 2026. We have to come up with a deal with farmers about changing this deal. It is true that there is a new opportunity to try to make a team among farmers and the state of the country to examine, including some of them. It's a big deal. There is a chapter in the agreement that focuses on these factors. But we weren't at this point negotiating with farmers about changes in competitive law. There is another setting for this, and there may well be some suggestions on how to get out of the work we are doing there. Given the way the text in the agreement is, I think it is likely that there will be a discussion about the factors. A senator mentioned earlier. But I don't have in these contracts negotiated with farmers to make changes in third parties' terms of employment, which, in fact, have no direct involvement with the parties under these contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u128	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answers. It is clear, then, that the governments and ministers of the Independence Party did not promote the surrender of the competitive part. It would have been nice to know, though, that all of us would have tried to put the world's common competitive laws, which are certainly in the interests of consumers, throughout the market. But we've got it figured out that it's not. I think the deal for many things is interesting, this addition, e.g. With respect to climate, though I may feel that, when it is better, a bit thin, thrashing, it should be examined and examined, and it may have some success of 2040. Still, there is a certain will, and I welcome it. I suppose so, chief. If not, a minister corrects me because the climate has been called the Environment Ministry. Then I'd like to know what comments the Environment Ministry made in connection with a review of this contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u129	A respectable president. It's a little far into the thirteenth, and I don't know if he's going to be very thin this time. However, I assert that the agreement between farmers and the state on climate matters is a turning point. There is no blister in it, a long road away. There is full agreement between farmers and governments on these topics and the Environment Ministry that will have its representatives in that work, along with the Ministry of Agriculture and farmers, to expand the focus of our policy. They are fully in line with the ambitious goals the government has set for the land in climate. And when we discuss the prices, I reiterate here that farmers have no authority to negotiate a change of law about third party in town. This is primarily a review of a contract that is in force between farmers and the government. I'm going to read a one-minute clause about the contract before then. There is no question about the matter, therefore, that the way we are going to approach it is discussed. The agreement combines governments and farmers to examine the value of dairy products. The analysis of opportunities for further separation between collection and sale of milk production from milk production and other processes must be performed. In this case, the overall price of dairy products will be reviewed and the possibility of quitting the public price of dairy products will be considered. In some way, this will involve the questions as a matter of course. A senator said so. But I can't wait for it. A senator claims that this stage of independence and forwarding is the subject of interest that she has certainly fought for in recent years, i.e. making adjustments to this principle of competition. But that's not the subject of this case I'm offering here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u130	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Agricultural minister for the prehistoric debate when he presented this case before the council and began to rejoice that the agreement is in place. At the outset, I can declare that I support it with my whole mind and will work to approve of it. Farm contracts and markets are often a major heat problem, triggering feelings for many. Now we are revising the long-term domestic contract agreed to 2016, so we are in a slightly different environment than we have often been in on these contracts. They have generally been made up of seven years, and in some cases they have been negotiated for the temporary extension of those contracts, as in the collapse, with contracts having an end date and uncertainty concerning the future and the working conditions of these sectors. I think this arrangement, to have opened up the longer opening contract, has proved its value perfectly. I may also feel a little lacking in this agreement, especially in farms, so I just say what I'm looking at, that people understand the change in the implementation of agricultural contracts, and that they negotiate the working conditions of milk or cattle and sheep farms and other contracts made. I think it's a reason, a respectable president, to treat 1st. This case, in view of what this contract was made, is being revised in 2016, e.g. the main ingredient of this bill as the highest. Agricultural minister is moving here to the future of a paymentmark, a payment market or manufacturing control. There were two major reasons why in the 2005 negotiation process, as far as I know, there were conditions in the dairy market and milk markets around us that men looked to it as a huge demand for dairy products. The other major reason was the expense of shopping with production warrants from which men were trying to control the negotiations. Just after the negotiation, or actually in the middle of it, some of the situations changed and responsibly different from those involved in the production or cost of the manufacturing system. Hence, it was important that in the end of the case at the Council on the summer days of 2016, there was a provision for payment evaluations to choose the future of the production management system, and this attitude is now being made in a very decisive way. That is the real goal of this bill and the maximum change. Agricultural Minister has now been arranged to follow up and maintain the production management I think and know that it is very important. Although it has natural and natural, as with all human endeavors, it is a fundamental tool that has changed and worked with it to change, not against it, as it were. Just because a discussion came up in the answers. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín about the famous subsidiary from competitive songs that make it normal for the milk industry to be granted to a dairy industry or to a company that processs milk in Iceland to submit to competitive laws. They have only a very narrow source of authority to cooperate with certain divisions of action. This was the key to the vast economy that took place in this 1990 article. And the key to our having such a strong branch today, the milk production, was to obtain the cooperation warrant. So, in recent years, economic management in this industry has been the primary source of the production and processing industry. I don't think that this discussion can ever be eliminated from the context of the very difficult discussion of this famous law. However, there may be times when a person will naturally review the future of this law. I hope that a review of the General's total competitive legislation may be made of a stronger tool to allow for a measure of action in a general competitive market that would include them. use the famous exception so often made into a political biteer. I think there is also reason to mention certain factors that lead to the conclusion as high as possible. Aggressor introduces the introduction and contribution of this bill. In recent years most of Iceland's habitats have been through an enormous transformation. I'm going to review some numbers and mention that in the 1986 financial account, nearly 10% of the state's expenses are due to agriculture. When I look up the accounts of 2018 and compare them with the contract on the conditions of cattle breeding under discussion, the figure has fallen to 0.7%. Of course, I was on the first number with the entire agricultural system known as exports, which were then and other payments. But this is the big change. This is the big change for the common government funds. This is about the expenses of the state funds, of which 0.7% of the total budget is spent. This, along with a dramatic decrease in the number of producers, larger spaces, larger and more efficient bodies, has produced an amazing economy in this Iceland in recent years. This major change was made in a agreement on the working conditions of cattle farming in 2004 that, up to that time, government funds had been tied to domestic production. Therefore, in particular, I am now once again delighted that we are primarily supporting the production of dairy products for the domestic market. The change was that the overall payment rate given each year really affected money from a government fund. If the entire store of milk grew, the funds from the state's funds would increase to the contrary. The system was simply set this way, and it was measured under price conditions that 49% of the production costs were paid by so-called bone pay. It was deactivated in 2004. Since that time, there has been an indiscriminate change, which is also appropriate to draw forward as we discuss government expenses to the party. At that time, there was a milk payment target of about 1,40,106 million gallons [40,106 million L.]. In 2018 it is 145 million gallons [ 145 million L] of milk, but there is no higher payment from a government fund to support that production. I think it's important that we draw this out in this discussion because more often than not, the debate about agriculture is a little further from setting it up in that light. We had a discussion earlier today, a respectable president, about the national benefits of changing energy sources. The reason why I mention it is that I feel alone is that the contract that the Bavors Association and the highest. Agricultural minister did, and a minister now appoints the General Assembly for approval as much of the national importance for this community. We should have more word and longer control over the value of agriculture for our community, the value of agricultural production, and the quality of farmers in these areas. I'm not going to go deeper into that discussion, but I just want to review that it has become widely accepted and we've been doing it in recent years, in fact, in incredibly number of cases, to create a variety of systems to support certain occupations that we want to protect because we feel that the benefit of society is at hand. I can mention such things as film making, publishing, and now there is talk about the media. In view of that, I'd also like to focus on the debate on energy exchange that we had today and on the agreement that is at the highest level. Agricultural minister introduced climate issues. Unfortunately, it is not often said that e.g. the production management system and the economics the article has gone through in recent years have resulted in a reduction of about 40% in the use of fossil fuels behind each produced litre. It's been a clean contraction in the past 25 years. And continue because we're discussing the revision of the 2016 contract here. The focus was primarily on farm equipment. Therefore, I feel that it is so important that we pay attention to the importance of making long - term contracts with a review order, since the times and challenges change. What was at the top of the turn of 2016 was in response to increased demand for the well - being of livestock. Every branch in Iceland has taken it very seriously, and especially the cattle industry. Farming has become a pure revolution in Iceland. Today, we put the environment first, and this industry, agriculture, milk production, and beef production, at great risk of participating in our major environmental activity. It was possible in this regard, such as a tenth of the number of tasks involved, e.g. The use of manure, the distribution of livestock, the feeding of livestock and other factors that I expect to be further discussed and implemented in another agreement, in which the Farmer Association deals with the State, the so-called agricultural Framework Convention over the general working conditions and policy development in that area. I want to reiterate what I said in the beginning. I think it's a very important deal. It is of utmost importance for industry such as agriculture, for cattle, which have long manufacturing processes, to look out for. I'd love to, in this discussion and discuss it. In addition, when it takes this matter into consideration, the employment committee also reviews the agreements for agricultural living, the next review under current contracts is about 2020, if I recall correctly, about the rest of the year 2026. I think it's time we started talking about it. Not that I suggest that there will be a change in this contract, and it will extend to that direction, but to discuss what would happen after that, because time is getting so fast. I mentioned before the long manufacturing process. What a farmer makes a decision today has not become the value of it until two, two, and a half years, so time is extremely important and the destiny of this industry. A respectable president. I think it is quite possible to say that this agreement takes the two major factors to the highest degree. The minister explained, payment targets, and production control. It has been followed by a review of the price of milk, and I have no doubt that because of the way this is done, society's economic benefits are greatly affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u131	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. Just a question came to mind when it was dark. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson gave his speech. She was very good and he's horrified by experience. He's like a pool historian about these matters. However, since this bill is based on the signing of this contract on October 25, 2019, it is only a simple question: What would have taken over if this agreement had not been reached? How, then, would the landscape have been in this field?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u132	Madam President. I thank you for this question and for an answer from what. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson I think the answer is obvious. Then, in accordance with the terms of the contract, the contract as agreed here at Council 2016 and the payment system would have been canceled and the manufacturing system would have been canceled. I think that would have been a sad conclusion. I watch that as a result of the demolition of production management in the European Union, which was widely seen here during 2015 and 2016, there has been a serious problem there for producers. I was out in Scotland the other day, and I met farmers who are dealing with drawing milk production together about 26%. If this revision had not been followed, I have no doubt that within a relatively short period of time, milk from each built - in litre would have had to be severely reduced. The cost of this industry is far greater and much greater than that. to deal with the maintenance of the production programme and exchange of the other main elements of this matter. Therefore, I rejoice that this agreement simply assumes that people will be cautious there through doors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer, and then there really is another question. As the senator came into the store of milk and how it could have evolved, could he have concluded that then evolution could have been in the way of greater compression, that it would have been more powerful in the size that could have been run? The senator made it clear that having a bigger fish is more practical. So this is the second question. The second question is, when the bill becomes a law -- or if, I don't know if I have the courage to say - now after an answer to a minister earlier. [[Up front.]] But can the senator see that there is a greater foundation for small, medium, and large to work in the article after this bill is adopted so that babies and large ones can be at peace with their cows?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u134	Madam President. I thank you again for the answer. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll's son Jónsson. I just want to prove one fact. We have a comparison of prices for farm products to other countries when it comes to return prices, to farm on milk. There we have been successful because of the convergence and efficiency of nursing stations that I discussed in the talk because of the well - known barriers that are often made to bite, to achieve complete speciality. We have provided primarily for the reduction of markets to consumers through milk management and acceptable farm prices. That's what I would have imagined would have fallen very fast if we hadn't taken the step of keeping wandering around it. Of course, since 2016, certain measures were taken to intervene in order to address undesirable developments in those materials, but at least we who discussed that agreement in 2016 did not have the conviction that they would work. I think it's worth a lot of money for the Icelandic agriculture to maintain a multiplicity in size and composition. All I'm going to say is that farming is a support to other rural population, whether it's tourism or other habitats, and I think it's important. There are steps in this agreement, such as the maximum share in a paymentmark, the maximum wage per quota market. Then there are steps to protect this diversity without affecting the main power of power to seek practical and more freedom to practice this sector, which really is a driving force for progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u135	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the past, and also I wish to congratulate him on the agreement that now lies on the table, as discussed here. I trust the bill will turn into law and not question it, because it's very important. Besides, I don't doubt that cow farmers will come along to agree with this agreement. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson before his speech earlier, which was quite illuminating and good and happy that old Halli rose. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - I'm sorry I didn't do this the way rules expect people to do a talk but listen to what they're doing. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson of the river reminded me of the good old times, when Haraldur was chairman of the town council. This is exactly what we need into this room, to be able to divide agriculture with reason and knowledge. That's a big point. True, people here discuss agriculture back and forth, but unfortunately, the foundation is not always what you wanted, nor can you assume that everyone has the same knowledge and foundation. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. But this is very important in the discussion presented here. It is to apply in the tray filled with water to add to the stream. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said, but I'll only come in on, which I think to the why. A senator didn't make the change. There was a certain agreement between farmers and state, and we know the spirit that then started and the dissatisfaction that was first heard among farmers that turned toward that the original agreement was not the so - called maximum value of the tithe, which I believe is a great improvement in the existing agreement. That's to be said to be the highest. Ministers for listening to the voices of farmers, who were deeply concerned about where the production of milk would take place if it was not to be controlled when we open up the proposed exposition. We can imagine that although there was a fixed peak at this balance market, i.e. a man could buy at most 50,000 gallons [50,000 L.] at a time, even the milklet would have been able to go to five hundred thousand. However, in this agreement, there is a figure of three times the minimum price of milk that we can see to it that has 260,270 k. If I've understood this right, the draft agreements committees come up with the document and start doing something about the game and ask men to calm themselves down. I can see in my mind that people are getting into it very soon, since there is a great demand for dairy tea. We know that the production capacity in Icelandic Europe is vast. Humans have been building and investing in increased technology, and this fish is calling for dairy tea. Furthermore, we know, and let us be clear in this discussion, that there are plenty of farms waiting to sell away the rights of production. It would be reasonable for the future of milk production to begin carrying the heavy burdens that could develop if we did not control what the price of milk can be. The agreement between state and farmers is primarily thought to be such for consumers in the country. That's key. This isn't thinking, so we're gonna be here for some stock exchange. The agreement between state and farmers is primarily for the better of Icelandic consumers. Regarding the votes that are currently being considered, I understand that it takes quite a slow turn, and that in itself does not surprise me. It's often been so with farmers that they vote for later orders, and right now I understand that 25% of the polls had already taken votes, I remind them there's a right around 1,300 farms on a vote. And I also remind you that there have been quite different kinds of involvement in the contracts that have been for the farmers of the past few years. One of the best was, I think, 2016 when 70% of the farmers participated in the vote. Finally, the highest. Mr President, I believe very strongly that cow farmers, milk producers, will come to accept this agreement. And why do I say that? Because the deal looks to the future. There is a vision of the future. We then know how to behave in the milk production until 2026. The fact that we are supporting the paymentmark system now with certain sources on expositability is a stability in this article. We'd like to see, too, like a dog. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in answer to why. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson, polymorphism in milk production. We want to see the wide range of milk production around the country, not just in certain areas of the country. It is the same as other habitats, and I talk about the branch next to me, which is the sheep farm, and the milk production is nothing like it. I'd say she's a vertebrae in a lot of places, and she's giving a huge number of people a job. It's a little different with this branch than with the branch that is often discussed, the sheep'flocks, that there is not in itself the pursuit of much extracurricular work. The production of milk is good enough to make a decent wage for a person. I think that's also part of this agreement that will continue to ensure that the article is not going to go on with the big jumps, but it's stable ahead. We have a vision of the future, so it's time to celebrate. Mr. President. I hope this case has a quick beginning within the council. I expect a professional worker's committee to do more fully and to continue the case, since it is not expedient by waiting with this fine and good agreement now on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u136	A respectable president. Now that the General and Education Committee has already found out about the case, it is a little strange to be on the rosary before the Commission prominent. I would like to briefly review the points that I had to say on this subject. Four factors in this bill are the key elements. For the first time, see 1st. 1st par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: On September 27, 2018, the Court of Justice is authorized to pay compensation in the wake of the U.S. Supreme Court of the United States on September 27, 2018. 521/2017 I think this is an unnecessary sentence because a minister is of course allowed to do this as he goes and happens. I don't understand the double shift after all. Then, according to 2 mg. 1st par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending ▪ The righteous who are alive and on the basis of their surviving mates and their children are to be paid back. Financial improvements will include the length of abolition of freedom. I made a comment to this earlier during the discussion because part of the reason that I support this matter, which I find somewhat strange, is, of course, that this should be a general legal article at all. Bringing it as a special offense and, in fact, a special law does not make me feel like an example. There may be some speed in the process that I fully understand in this case as far as it reaches, and it may take longer to examine the overall context, so it is more important to complete this precise point. In 1st. 2.g. It speaks of a very important point that is similar to the one that Piratar and I have presented in the language of No. Seven, I think I was. It's about refusing to repay equal demands from the State, rural society, or their institutions to pay in accordance with these laws. The payments do not make up a strain for relief from other payments that a person may enjoy, e.g. On the basis of a social security law, or a pension fund, or affect the rights of individuals in other aspects of the social security system. This is what I think, as per Pirata's bill, is a top priority. Of course, when people receive compensation or otherwise, they should not compromise their income or their rights. Of course, when it is paid for damage or failure, it should be completely independent of any other income or payment. It should be easy to make this law general in all such matters. Finally, 2 mg. 2. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending A U.S. Marshal's Office 2 mg. 1st par. to seek justice from the court shall the decision to reduce the value of benefits that may have been paid under these laws. I think it's a good precautionary story and it's good to have there if the contract that the executioner makes with the person doesn't give the results he thinks he has a right to and to claim. The ability to seek his right to reach a better conclusion is only fine. In other words, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that these are excellent suggestions. It is dangerous to have these specifics, to have special laws for specific matters, especially when the suggestions such should work in general. This was shown in 1st. that paying the descendants of the dead would be a problem, that it would not be able to pay the compensation that had actually been lost. It should normally be a general rule, and I would have chosen that here would be a matter of general interest because then we wouldn't be talking about this particular matter, especially this case. It would be impossible to say that there could be some political interference in this and that sort of thing. That's what you want away from as a senator because we have a threefold power, and when these specific laws are established, they won't be as clear as they should be. Of course, we have an enormous problem in the connection between the European Commission and the legislature. There is not much distinction, considering how more parts of the election always agree and take the job, and finally it is the post office or minister that uses the council as a kind of plunger pad when it comes to all. Especially do we see evidence of this before intermissions or Senate closes. Then there's stuff packed up that needs to run out of one, two and ten. This does not directly support the independentness of the Council as far as it is concerned. We want to separate between the legislature and the jurist. In the national court case, though, the distinction was somewhat vague. There are some examples of a direct effect that should not be found. It would be better, therefore, if there were general laws, although they would be performed in a retrospective manner. This is about the rights people receive and it is okay to restore rights, not to take them back from people. Although these are specific laws, I would like to receive these laws as a general law code in any way, as far as I can see them, and that is why I can support the matter despite other limitations there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u137	A respectable president. After the figures that were tore up in this discussion earlier today, the General and Education Committee has met and contacted Páll, the son of Þórhallsson, with the Ministry of the Presidency, and Andri Árnason, a state attorney. On the basis of the Ministry, it was then clear that the Lawgiver's will was limited to paying fair compensation to those who were justified by the Supreme Court on case No. 521/2017. The meeting of the committee was made clear in Article 1. the bill, as well as the bill article, which persons should improve accurately according to the bill. In 1st. says: On September 27, 2018, the Court of Justice is authorized to pay compensation in the wake of the U.S. Supreme Court of the United States on September 27, 2018. 521/2017. The righteous will be paid to the living and on the basis of the surviving mate as well as to their dead children. Financial improvements will include the length of abolition of freedom. Here is the key wording ◯ on the same basis. It is thus intended to leave no doubt that compensation for children and spouses is the intended benefits, no other compensations, not for personal failures, or any other compensations for the dead. Then it makes clear that the bill refers to reforms made to the five acquiesced by this court of Supreme Court, only to the fact that compensation to the dead can be passed on to the surviving children and their spouses in order to maintain equal justice between parties. Further, the report states that the legislation on the authority of a minister to pay the righteous and the survivors, if appropriate, and the children of the deceased must be exonerated because of the unique legal standing raised by the acquisite court. If so, it is clear that those who claim to have personal reform rights because of their own failures can ask them for legal requirements and, of course, no claim on the outcome of such a case can be made. After this careful consideration of the issues presented here today, the committee has concluded that the matter should be resolved without additional prosecuting or advising.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u138	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a compromise of commitment and pollution laws relating to the work permit and registration activities. The main purpose of the bill is a simple rule by reducing the number of groups of activities that are advising or registrational in relation to the government's policy of simple regulations for public and professional life. In addition, other changes in the repairs of the law are suggested in order to enhance their clarity. The bill was written at the Environment and Resource Ministry and suggested that it was introduced into the board's consultations in October. A total of 12 reviews on the bill were received, and this was changed in the context of the current reviews and the number of categories of activities which were to be canceled and registrational. The bill suggests the reduction of the category of activities required for authorization and registration. The bill suggests changes to decrease the number of groups of activities that are subject to the implementation or registration of the job permit. In many cases, it is not necessary to recommend an occupational or registration to achieve the objectives of commitment and pollution control. Companies are responsible for working in accordance with local legislation and can use government guidelines on local regulations. It has to be estimated that in many cases the government can properly guide the operators without the permission of the job or registration. Regardless of the occupational or registrational requirements, the government has a follow-up role under the rules of commitment and pollution prevention and may need to ensure that it is in accordance with the legislation. The risk assessment of activities related to the work permit or registry was based on the risk assessment of the relevant activities. Thus it is suggested that the activity that measures high in risk assessments will remain professional or registrational, but the level of activity that limits the requirements will not be dependent on the Marketing Authorisation or Registration. There is a list of activities that are subject to the Agency's work permit. A reduction in the number of types of activities included in Annex IV and V and and a decline in the activities required or authorised by the Marketing Authorisation, under the supervision of the National Competent Authority. Examples of deportations include year - to - year burning, gardening, pesticide prevention, public toilets, and bus waiting stations. The bill then suggests that the work modalities between the EEA and the health committees in the publishing of jobs will be carried out in accordance with the regulations of I, II and IV. In addition, Annex III is suggested to provide a list of activities that should be authorised by special regulations, such as IV. section of the Act on commitment and pollution prevention of specific functions utilised by organic solvents. According to the Ministry Department, the bill will not result in a costly impact on government funds. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u139	A respectable president. This is an example of a bill where changes are so that instead of one reference, another is replaced by another word. You have absolutely no connection with the law yourself, what they look like after the change, and you have to rely entirely on the report, which is not always very accurate when it all comes down to it. I wanted to ask about one thing that I've been looking for: Is this bill moving the EEA Committee's activities to the EEA, however, comments on the implementation of responsibility and monitoring? Or is it in another way? I don't quite get it. There's a switch between health committees and the EEA but I don't see the transfer in the consultation suit. Was it in this bill or other?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u140	V.E.G. President. This bill is not being transferred between the EEA and the National Institutes of Health, except in one case, where the Agency is transferred to the HCP, if I recall this correctly. For word's sake. The senator on the bill and its expressions wants the person listed here to say that there may be times when he could have texts separated from the changes presented, all the way in the committee work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u141	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill to legalize the laws on the diseases of loyalty and pollution. It's like the highest. A minister in his history accepted the bill's considerable criticism, and comments were made in the crossword. So I would like to ask, "Can I get a little more specific on what has been failed before the bill was submitted here? " I have received advice from one of the medical committees that we need to pay close attention to this matter and consider it carefully during the treatments of the committee. That's one question I had. Then I wanted to come on the same page. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. It is not simple to understand these matters and what the changes are. I also see that there has been a comparative document presented in the consultation box showing changes in another color. I wish that such a document can be delivered when it is presented to an environment and transport committee. Also, I see from comments that have been found that it is difficult to understand this change other than to take into account the rules of registration. Is the Regulation available then, and is it a minister's opinion that it is important to study together with the subject of the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u142	V.E.G. President. First, I agree that all matters must be carefully monitored and covered by members of the Parliament. As a result of my consultation, I called to see a representative of the health care department and the Union's members to discuss what would be the object of their comments and actions. I believe that what is presented here and is changed from what has been proposed in the scheme of consultation is basically to meet, and that's fine. I'm sure it's time to bring documents into the environment and transport committees that show changes in the law. I often call for this in the Ministry. It's much easier to figure things out in this way. In terms of registration regulations, it is my opinion and the Ministry that these two things do not necessarily need to be met. I decided that we would first take the law into consideration at the Council before completing the case, but it was certainly presented at a similar time in the consultation mystery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u143	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is exactly what he wants to do. Is it not true that when it comes to the Regulation, it has to do with the change, as well as a change, and that it may have some impact on the position of those who must work according to the Regulation that it should not have taken place in time after previous changes? Then I'd like to ask you a few questions about the instructions. What has been criticized by local health care is that when the employee's responsibilities turn into registrational licenses, there is also a chance to provide guidance and guidance for time. How would this be evident in a new legal environment, and what counsel would be drawn? Would those who record their work at the EEA receive guidance from or from the health care department? Is such guidance preferable to come from an environment or from a central institution? Similarly, I would like to ask about factors that have been pointed out to be able to complicate things where a part of the operation is mandatory and other registrational duties, that it may even interfere with the monitoring process and the duty to follow up. Has this already been true? - I guess it's good for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-03-39.u144	V.E.G. President. First of all, as I came in earlier, it's our opinion that it doesn't have to be either at the same time. The rules of course. A senator came in and turned to what activities were registered, but not an employee's duty is really something that we intend to consult very closely with the European Union and the Health Organization following this work. I think it makes more sense to wait on it until we know how the bill is angry about it. Making adjustments could have some impact on the manner in which this Regulation would be implemented. In terms of the role of health care and the role of the EEA, it is very important that they be protected from close cooperation and guidance by the health care providers. I am very aware of its importance, often the ones involved, especially with smaller and medium - sized companies, and this can often be very effective when it comes to enforcing the goals of these laws. Regarding other questions, there is something that we will consult with the relevant person.
