ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to make the house - to - house arrangements that my subject here today, in view of the fact that a special group of prime ministers on the operations of the housing market yielded their proposals yesterday. Many came to that special group, and the total result is 40 suggestions in seven categories. As we all know, housing has been a mess over the past few years, and there is no need to reenact the many reports of the troubles we have in Iceland and those who live here in that area and especially the young people. Despite the extensive development of the past losses and high emphasis on new housing, there is still no evidence that the present proposal will be suitable for the low income and property. But now people are going to see the land. Among these broad campaign groups, support for the failure of housing companies, safer tenants for tenants is also given high emphasis on the importance of effective public transport. Clearly, the ways that have been taken so far in the construction of an apartment building do not come to this group. He's been left out on a housing market. Then we need to look for other ways, e.g. with these strong, unfashionable housing companies as suggested. Similarly, by improving tenants' status, so that those who prefer to live in a rented house have the advantage and that it is a real choice. Thus, it must be noted that the rights of tenants and proposals for rent protection should be good for this to fall, but it should be taken care that changes in rent law do not result in raising rent prices or reducing rent supply in a rented market. Much emphasis is placed on the responsibility of the state and rural society to improve housing markets, and it is clear that there is still work to do. I believe, though, that these suggestions are very important to the future work to ensure safe housing, to improve rent, and to provide additional opportunities for practical housing. It also attracts special attention and satisfaction as to how wide the results of the group seem to be at peace. Special delight was to see that those people present at the bargaining table in difficult dress talks seem to be pleased with these suggestions. [[The president calls.]] But their main concern is that they will reach as much success as possible and will improve the benefit of low and intermediate workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u2	A respectable president. This morning I listened to the Heimir and Gulli as I would so gladly as I am about to make my way to work. Their visitor this time was the Helgi of Gunnarsson, professor of sociology, and chief criminal expert. He has been working on a report with his Norwegian colleagues on the Internet drug trade. They have been gathering data from late in 2017 until 2018. In effect, the purpose was to try to determine the scope of such a sale. Where's the sales going? They know about the consumption, but the market has not been so open to them. We have often talked about and know the great problem that confronts our young people and all others who have become addicted to drugs. The opioid epidemic has caused dozens of young people to die untimely, and we do not leave behind. But I have to say, what amazed me most is how violent the drug dealer is on the Internet. They found 30 sealed groups, and when they got into them, there were dozens and up to thousands of people in what he said was basically a marketplace. There was a market open to all the drugs used by names, and we can think of, as this fine person mentioned. Now this is being upgraded, the development of technology is huge, they have phases, they have anything to try to get to our young people. That's why I say, it's our job to take this chance right now, try to have some preventative effect. We know what's going on, we know where the hall is mostly going on, and we should be able to make a better decision that this kind of thing doesn't happen, at least not to the horrors of what we see, according to the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u3	Mr. President. During the New Year's season, the subject of queer people from the Ministry of Health moved to the Ministry of Presidency, likely in connection with the declarations of action in behalf of queer people who are found in the government covenant. It is noteworthy, however, that despite the beautiful words, the '78 Syndicate is one of the gay people's stakeholders in Iceland, a great dissipation, and if it appears, it will be about half as much a cut from what the organization got from the Ministry of Health last year. A total of 6 million. K. It is appropriate for the Ministry of Presidency that the '78 Association to receive its priceless educational and counselling work for children, young people, caregivers, health care professionals, and continue to be counted. It may be that last year the organization received special recognition for educational, social, and advice on queer matters, a year when the Children's Land of Childhood was specifically impressed by the rights of all children to life and development and to equality. Happily, in the '78 Syndicate and for a number of health care professionals and others involved in the matter, Reykjavík has a handsome support to the organization, thus keeping alive in this important activity, as it were. Governments cannot talk forever in one way and set priorities for another. They cannot forever make a requirement and assume that people are responsible, that individuals are responsible to ensure the necessary and normal human rights for voluntary work. A class of gay people, according to one report, was to be moved to the new Ministry of Equal Opportunities. I hope that there is no reason to fear further that the operation of another free society is put at risk by the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u4	President. This year I took my first place in the General Assembly, and it has been an interesting experience to get to know the members of the council. When I came in here a year ago, there was much talk about strengthening confidence in the council and its activities. I rejoiced in that discussion very much. We have learned from the various events here at the Council that it has been difficult for members of the council to accept political responsibility. I do not deny that in general members of Congress are open to objective discussions and are trying to understand every aspect of the matter. However, there is no denying that there is a certain lack of multiplicity here. Without questioning the integrity of those whom I have been sitting with at the council meetings or in the Senate Hall, all of us must recognize our privileges. I talked about it here last time I was in a chair that we needed to be able to identify ourselves to young people in order to build up a sustainable society for the future. Today, I call for the support of disabled, homosexuals, the poor, the elderly, and those who are less powerful. You see, power is difficult, and we as rulers and those of us who work for the people of the land have a heavy responsibility. The responsibility is to be ready to admit a mistake. This includes acknowledging that we do not know everything. And most important of all, this includes the obligation to listen and listen to those who choose to rule with us. If we forget our privileges and choose, I believe we will end up making decisions that are not in the interests of society. One step to further this responsibility would be, for example, opening up a meeting. The World Congress committees discuss the matter, but there is a huge shortage of meetings. Last night I sat, for example. A meeting where there were five men and two women. This is a exception, since there may be only one woman on the other committees. And there's only one change. I do not intend to dominate my sexual orientation, economic status, or the age of these people. But one thing is certain, there is power, and that is, while committee meetings are closed, not transparent and difficult to contain. Intimacy creates uncertainty and uncertainty. As long as this system is installed, we must become more powerful in remembering that authority and privilege are involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to say a little bit about equality in a transport program. Now, all of us are paying in a common fund on equal terms, especially transport programmes in which paying are used, e.g. through gas charge. For the council there is a transport program where funds are divided in a certain way between areas. It is understandable, in a sense, that money is less likely to find its capital than it is in a country where roads are longer and costs are high because of long roads. However, most of the fuel costs are available in the major capital area. We understand something different. The stage in which we can see the proposals of the greater part due to road costs is affecting the level of equality presented in a transport program. This is where the proportion of transport projects in the major capital area are reduced if we look to the funds we make in our common budget. That funding will be taken from the capital area and moved elsewhere. Instead, inhabitants of the capital area, up to Cityness and Selephos, and those who use it mostly, have to pay extra dues. In other words, they have to pay more taxes because of these vital activities, such as the highest level. A secretary of transportation has said so. It is not enough that the equality evident in the transport program is as familiar as it really is, in some respects understandable, but is reducing the level. The capitals get even less out of common fund if the tax reimbursement becomes realized and then they have to pay more on premiums. There's an error in the equation I was talking about bringing the dues to us. I'm turning her down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u6	Mr. President. The latest observations indicate that the proportion of carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere is up to 410 parts per million. This is the ratio which has not been observed for 800,000 years for at least according to the polar core samples. Climate crisis is growing. We know. We also know about that. how the solution looks. What we need to do is significantly reducing carbon dioxide emissions. The world's emissions account for about 21 billion tons of carbon dioxide every year. Of these, Iceland is responsible for some 4 million tons. This will reduce the total of 3 million tons before 2030. The government promises success in its climate program. But since a special discussion took place on climate issues. The fall has about a 1/20 of the time we have until 2030 passed. Of course, it is important that all measures be made and that the Council is also informed about progress. But we need more than just shaking hands. We need some measurable results. There has been considerable criticism of the results to date, including those to date. In an exploratory study of Gallup, where 75% of Iceland's people are giving government and rural efforts to reduce or lower greenhouse gas emissions. Nor has this yet to be answered for criticism, which was mentioned in the above - mentioned special discussion, which suggests that the individual objectives of the government's climate programme are not listed as a reduction in the estimated release of CO-2 values. It is essential that we here at the Council take this party in complete intensive care and ensure that we achieve the desired result because we do not have many other planets to choose. If we screw up right now, we'll have trouble finding out, so I suggest we do better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to describe the great satisfaction that the Smokehreapes have made the difficult decision to install in their main organization a roadline, a TH-way, through a Chef Forest and that it can start in this area that has actually been held hostage for up to 20 years. Governments and government officials have not been able to determine where to cross in this delicate area, which, of course, is a single natural bulb, all of which are, of course, the West. Still, we have advanced in other areas in the West by building lasting roads. But there are roads that are not acceptable in the 21st century, neither the people nor the companies that are there. Granted, it can be debated about the best roads and the need to prevent interference from the environment. We can continue to argue over that for the next 20 years, but it does not bring much back for this settlement, and it is not just about the inhabitants of this area, but all of the West. It will be a national highway after the Da vildings are laid and the Animal Straits will pass through. If I had been left alone, I might have chosen a different route some time ago, but this has been in the hands of those in charge and in charge. We've been round and round, and we've seen countless options, costing and retraced, and some time we've got to cut the knot. I'm proud to have had the balls to do that. Now we just walk together and settle for a long time in this area. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u8	Mr. President. October 15th. I had a place to talk to at the highest. Agricultural minister for import of fresh meat for a new court order of the Supreme Court to prohibit the import of fresh meat from sources in the EEA region should be illegal. That judgment, in fact, was no surprise to anyone, except perhaps one or two former agricultural advisers. V.E.G. Agricultural minister, by permission of the President, said: Then it is quite true that this has been going on for quite some time, that the government's policy has been 2009-2013, and from 2013/2016 it was to maintain the defense on the case, and at that time nothing was ever done to prepare any other conclusion than the law's thinking. The conclusion now stands, and this is a complicated solution. That's it. Furthermore, the highest. Minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson, by permission of the President: To me, the issue is now number one, two, and three about obtaining additional insurance for salmonella infections that our neighboring countries have had. It'll take some time to get it. Likewise, protection against hypoglycylobacter infection. Both of these cases are in progress.◯ In the written answer to my query to the highest degree. A minister on the costs of the ban on fresh meat found that the direct cost of litigation was more than 47 million. K. The answer also states that the EFTA monitoring agency earlier this month adopted the government's application to place extra insurance on chicken meat, chicken eggs, and turkey meat. Mr. President. All of this has been an act of great magnitude on the part of the government, the consumers to the harm, and the result of unnecessary financial expenses and effort on the part of the State. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now it's time to end, and it's time to go to the top. Agrienvironment schemes immediately provide a bill to correct this illegal situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u9	A respectable president. During the final days of the Council before Christmas, the Adventist talk of our dealings with the outside world, our attitude, and our attitude toward those who are struggling to attend in the world even had no place to go, often called refugees. The occasion was the report that Iceland was intended to be one of the countries that joined the international release for passengers signed in Marrakesh, December 11. A member of the Central Party declared in the public assembly that this contract was dangerous and might lead to the greatest distastefulness for the nation. Above the country, virtually all governments of various races would be flooded with unforeseeable consequences, even with the ability to prevent Iceland's sovereignty. The same tone was struck by this category at a vote for the granting of citizens' rights on the final day of the council. At least part of the party didn't vote with the bill on 26 new citizens. How sad it is to think that the attitudes reflected in this class are found here and where in the community, that is primarily caused by lack of understanding, ignorance, and prejudice! We believe that we are a enlightened people, but in this regard, we need to do better to educate and introduce to the common people the context, the big picture, the causes, and the lot of people who are looking for a more secure future for them and their children. Here, governments have positions of authority in positions of authority. Today, there are nearly 250 million people on the move in the world out of their own country, and there have never been more. The percentage of immigrants in Iceland is rapidly approaching the average of our neighboring countries in Europe. We are hospitable, but we certainly do not do as well as we do in the assignment of adapting immigrants to our community. There is evidence of this in social services, in schools, and at work markets. At the council's later session, a respectable president, the United States proposal is for the shape of long timely policy on the affairs of immigrants, who hopefully receive an objective and balanced discussion at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u10	A respectable president. The Conspiracy's policy is clear on equal opportunities for all. The practice of sharing in the role model of equals, where the goods are spread so that everyone can make a living is the way. In recent decades, however, the fragrance of liberalism has undermined this combination. In increasing numbers, society has been tailored to those who have more. The measures of the wealthy and those who don't know their money are causing desolation in the pants of remote island countries just to avoid their responsibility in the combination. According to the new Oxfam report, 26 of the world's richest individuals have as much wealth as the poorer half of the world's world. To prevent further change of wealth in this country, the tax system needs to be altered and built up for the benefit of all. In 2016 60 billion capital incomes ran to 330 individuals. The highest income in the group earned $3 billion in capital gains. It would take hundreds of years for a low - incomeer to earn that amount. Government policies are not to be paid the way of the rich to get richer at the expense of the poor. A lot of money is to be taxed in a just way. Johns Rawls' Rawls valley policy makes this a pretty good frame. Þorsteinn is how Gylfason put it, by permission of the president: (b) What is required to keep the valleys in order to be the most prosperous and productive? ▪ A glass is not to be higher or noble, but it is needed in order that the valleys may be the most prosperous and inhabited. A respectable president. A new report by Oxfam says that the richest people in the world and their companies are directly sub taxed. That's what we're talking about in Iceland. Here's a fiscal tax at the lowest in the North countries, only 22%, much lower than the income tax of individuals. Both Oxfam and OECD speak for a higher capital tax in order to balance the community as well as its property tax, similar to the wealth tax that paid at the most by 10 billion dollars. Opinions to taxation on those most owned are all around us. We as superiors view the tax system as a substitution system where they pay most of what they can get. We believe that step to left is the right step, step in towards socialism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u11	A respectable president. The proposals of the government campaign on housing look good. We welcome the apparent solidarity of action. They do a lot of things together with the Group's Action Programme, which we made up for this fall, and they have been in a state of shock. The Senate welfare committee since November The response to the workforce's parties has been positive, hopefully leading to the suggestions for improving the lives and life of the public. The right to act in behalf of tenants is especially welcome. However, I would like to mention some thought - provoking points. The initiative group does not have any first purchases, but in our suggestion in the United States, it is said that the Norwegian formula is aimed at helping young people and children to get their first purchase of housing, people with a low but secure income that does not receive sufficient loans from traditional banks. Such loans have given us a great deal in Norway. Also, there is no suggestion for interest or compensation that is of utmost importance, especially for low and average income groups. There is nothing to be found about funding, but many suggestions turn toward rural areas and is a reason to ask whether financial support follows obligations. Civil lines are prominent, with large-scale public transport and environment, but according to the government's transport programme, the budget required to build up a city line is to be proposed. Some might say that the fine suggestions of the campaign party are a form of an unfunded list.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u12	A respectable president. Today, 49 officers of the Novomatric sceptre and technology company were reported to end their business in the country this year. This is one of the many news reports we have received in recent years about the worsening of the competitiveness of technology and sceptre companies and, especially, tourism companies, especially due to the instability of the Icelandic crown and the unstable and unacceptable management environment created by this company. We also received reports from moviemakers that this environment is completely unacceptable to any long-term policy development or plan and that it was difficult to attract people who would be willing to engage in projects because there was no way to provide for the environment or the costs of the projects. That government, on the other hand, says that the U.S. dollar is the best thing available to us. You might think she likes this coin the best in the world, and it's not about abbreviation, it's just about stability. That's the story we've heard here for decades, and actually for decades, but never changes anything about this intricate stability. Could it be that, as with so many examples, a dollar is ablaze, but does not the amount of it that its supporters so often go on contending with? I think it is clear that in recent years, we lose valuable high-paying jobs out of the economy because of these unstable environments, because of this unstable environment, that we may eventually turn the problem about exactly what is available to the currency we use. I think it's time to change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u13	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of the winter council, we took a day to review the political situation. There, however, was not much surprise. Each one of us sees things the way it works. The angles are different, and my glasses stink. One doesn't think that the right kind of people is in control, and another even claims that the government's business is nothing, and this state is in a state of chaos, and everything is going to be awright. No matter how hard I try, I can't possibly figure out how these whales are. Senators see the world. Of course, we do not agree on who to rule, but no such force has ever been put into the infrastructure now. The appeal for elections was, of course, the promotion of social projects and infrastructure. V.E.G. President. Anticipation measures to improve the level of the minimum paid are initiated and further tax reforms will be introduced to meet those with the lowest income and lower intermediate income. Contracts with stakeholders have never been more than happy to respond to proposals in the homes presented yesterday. They confirm the expressed will of the government to find solutions to the nation's housing problems and to provide practical solutions. But it remains, as one senator put it, that we want most of us, if not all, to win a country and a nation, and to do well. The political, however, is in a special place. The society changes rapidly, and thankfully, it is not just black and white. The political must be about conversation and cooperation. It is now apparent that this is the course that will move us. Now it is good to have strong roots for socializing. There is a demand for reason and realistic solutions that minimize all extremes. Come on, Iceland!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to make two things a subject today, one of which welcomes the suggestions that were given by the campaign group on housing as the highest. Prime Minister's orders. Many good things are found there, and if we are to accomplish it, we will look to the better. One of those factors is that. ... according toa bill that I and a few of them have. The members of the Independence Party held until mid-November, i.e. to raise the pay of reimbursement tax from work in an apartment building from 60% to 100%. There is evidence that construction costs will be reduced by 3% and government funds, in fact, will not be made of any income. This may increase the government's income. I expect that once we're given the bill, it will have enormous support, and people will put forth effort to advance that goal in this room. The other thing is, I think very much about what Congress officials are supposed to do when government agencies don't obey the law. When a government agency such as the Kingdom Hall for 13 months has not followed the laws that apply to it, what adjustments can we take? When I find out about this in this room, there are not many people who seem to worry that a government agency that we all need to pay is not legal. At the same time, it is informed that the Kingdom News uses resources that were designed to support Icelandic filmmakers by reimbursement of the cost of film making, by reimbursement at an annual buy or other national program. [[The president calls.]] Surprisingly, the Government Radio misuses its purpose to strengthen national programs and films, as well as to uphold laws that apply to the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u15	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make an example of the Ranger Council and West Strategists. I guess this applies to others. This service has been placed under the health - care center of Southland, where it is placed on the shoulders of a management board that organizes it, as well as the application of hospitals to Selephoss, with a variety of functions. The site of this service is becoming less and less accessible. For example, an elderly person who has been treated as a hospital requested to get to the health care facility at Puppy Stadium. Monday and he gets 10 days later, next week. Emergency transport service is also getting worse, and now, at the latest, it has been reported that only part - time work is going to be done. There will be an increasing trust in the use of medical supplies from Selephoss. It is most unfair that the produce of local residents from increasing tourism in large tourist areas is a worse service in this area than was before the tourist tide. A local nurse and one medical doctor operates in a local community. Recently, a tragic accident occurred under very trying circumstances. It took a long time for an additional member of the United States to make it to the scene. I have to say, I am taking offense for people who are brave enough to work in this situation. This system I believe shows that the legislature's will is hardly possible. I know that the will of Congress doesn't mean that the service will go down a year, but in fact, it's not up to us. I wondered, " Is it normal for a large institution with a number of different business factors to be weighed and assessed for complete basic services in distant places against hospital operations, which is actually located at the nearest levels below the board's residence? ' Is that fair, and is this likely to lead to a good conclusion? The question is, Is there a better solution? Is it possible to cooperate with your local communities and their firefighters in connection with the management of medical transportation? And one question that would need to be discussed much more: Can you find ways to find that local residents in the areas where high income is made, such as large tourist attractions, enjoy them in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of policies that promote people of foreign origin to participate in Icelandic society. Further, the movers are the members of the Council of Friðbjörg Fräldur, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaadóttir, Logi Einarsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The suggestion is as follows: The General concluded that the Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in collaboration with Education and Culture, Health Minister and Justice would shape policies for individuals and families of foreign origin, with the aim of increasing mutual understanding and participation in all aspects of society. Special attention will be given to social rights, health care, education and employment participation so that in Iceland there will be a population of population with fundamental factors of equality, justice, and respect for life without discrimination. Secretary introduces the Council to the Council of the Council at the beginning of the Council of 150th. The proposal's report highlights the main reasons why policy-makers of this category are presented. By the turn of the year, nearly 45,000 immigrants were enrolled in Iceland from nearly 170 countries, a year ago about 36,000. Since 2012 they have increased from 8% to 12.6% of the population. There is no reason to believe that the same trend will continue, and so globally it is done. Another generation of immigrants also increased from year to year, and they are now almost 4,900. The combined number of first and second generations of immigrants is 13.9% of the population in Iceland, and that ratio has never been higher. But who's an importer? An immigrant is defined as being born abroad and having parents who are also born abroad as well as their grandparents. Another generation of immigrants are people born in Iceland and have parents who are both immigrants. A respectable president. The move between countries is one of the biggest occasions and one of the greatest challenges facing the international community. There are about 250 million people on the move for the world outside of their own country; there have never been more and more, according to predictions, than in numbers. According to the definition of the United Nations Refugee Agency, the majority of immigrants, about 90%, move in on their own. This is an equal financial reason, i.e. that jobs in your country are not suitable for you or for your general employment failure. The remaining 10% are refugees and refugees who flee to another country from persecution, threats, and/or conflicts. It is estimated that about half of emigrants worldwide are moving from developing countries and countries defined as developing countries or industrial countries. The majority of immigrants have completed some form of schooling before entering a new place. About 35% of immigrants worldwide have completed a university education or a more specialized field of education. On the other hand, education is well - known on a global scale that is late and poorly accepted and appreciated in a receptionist country, and that is true in Iceland as in other countries. A respectable president. The position of the Icelanders to move from country to country should be positive in view of their own history and transport, both during the past and in the last few years. The experience of immigrants around the world, however, is that they face more often than some resistance in their new community. This confirms even In 2014, the report of the Environment Agency and the National Institute for Human Rights. Much is discussed and written at this time about the lot and adjustment of immigrants in the world. The red thread in the discussion of adaptation is always the same as three factors, first of all, that the local attitude is critical, second of all, that upbuilding social discussions, led by governments and third, are important for targeted and well-defined long-term processes to be active, i.e. the existence of policy and policy. These factors are considered an important key to making all aspects of society readily available to immigrants. A careful reception helps to promote a more positive attitude toward all those involved, whether in the education system, the work market, the housing system, health services, sports and youth service, or other important public e - mails. A respectable president. Iceland is now involved in immigrants, where many nearby countries were years ago or decades ago. Therefore, it should be easy to learn from experience and upbuilding development in various aspects of this series of languages in other nations that have achieved very successful results. In the North, there is the most competitive communities in the world with equality, welfare, and social responsibilities ahead of them. The Northern countries have also been on the lead in these matters with a clear and well - defined policy on the affairs of immigrants. Improving the status of immigrants in Iceland and policy development in this area is a fair matter but also an important part of the building of multi-cultural society that promotes human life, increases the variety and prosperity. The wealth, well - being, and active participation of all are the hallmarks of successful community making and the basis for long - lasting competitive, healthy working life. There is evidence that Iceland's inequities are a fact and have even been increasing and that the necessary steps to counterbalance have not been reached. Enlarged groups of people do not share in the community sufficiently, although there are potentials and society really needs their energy. In this group, immigrants are represented. In this regard there are the results of the studies MIRR, the Central Centre of Import Studyes, the Reykjavíkuracademe, and the above - mentioned report of the European Union's Environment Agency and Human Rights. Understanding and discussing what is involved in the term populous society is needed. The accepted and general understanding and what we promote are based on the vision that foreign people and their descendants are deeply involved in the molding of a righteous society. A respectable president. A true recognition of the importance of immigrants is the main theme of a adaptation program in the affairs of immigrants. The General agreed in the fall of 2016 with a synopsis of the move-in plan for the move on the affairs of immigrants before 2016, 2020. The schedule is based on five defined factors or support. Social Affairs responded to the written request of the person mentioned above nearly 11 months ago, requiring two aspects of the programme, those investigating the status and well - being of refugees and others with a view to improving work position monitoring. However, employment at the remaining three important factors is unclear, i.e. Society, family, education. In response to a minister on how earmarked money for the plan had been recently identified, a total of 201 billion in the period was expected. K. to the project. Of that amount, 36.6 million would have been set aside for either the completed or accomplished tasks. So most of the money is still in the secretary's drawer, as it is defined. It is urgent that projects according to the implementation programme become real and permanent topics, part of a long-term policy. It is important to improve the development of immigrants by reviewing the role of the Foreignland Institute, sponsoring a multicultural facility, the agency to be the government's maintenance and trust in adaptation of immigrants to Icelandic society, as well as providing considerable development funds for the development of immigrants to support the work in the trade. The task is many and quickly thought of such things as education, employment, social and welfare. A respectable president. Education is a guarantee of active involvement in the community. This applies equally to adults and children of foreign origin. Active bickering guarantees the ability to understand and support children's language is the key to the success of children and young people in school, leisure and social work, to understand society, and to share fully in it. Likewise, the origin and experience of children and young people need to be treated with respect. The children of a foreign country do not apply for high school, and of that small group, they graduate an even lower percentage than those of young people with a local language. This is a major concern and needs to be considered on how basic schools and high school meet educational needs for young people. Efforts to promote education from different backgrounds are the key to a successful integration in a population that accepts that people have a wide range of backgrounds and that one thing is not right for all. Many immigrants have an unrecognized education, experience, and skills. An effort must be taken to find ways to appreciate the education of all immigrants. This can be, for example. can be used to publish diplomas to those who have experienced a real evaluation. Of course, the premise is that real - life assessment is available to immigrants, and it needs to be stressed that Icelandic education is an alternative to working hours. A respectable president. A national employment policy needs to be noted for the use of human resources and the contribution of immigrants to it is of great importance. It has to be ensured that Iceland is an interesting place for foreigners to come and work in diverse sectors and that all activities in the business need to take into account. The lack of employment among immigrants is higher than in other populations, and there is no consistent correlation between education and unemployment and that of other Icelanders who have a lot of thought. Such findings are reflective, including in a statistical report of the 2016 Civil Republic of Germany, where unemployment among immigrants was examined after the collapse. This is also confirmed in the 2017 Work Office annual report, which says that according to information on the number of active foreign citizens with a legal home in Iceland, the unemployment of foreign citizens can be estimated by 3.9%. It is considerably more unemployment than the average country average for anyone who was 2.2% at that time. In 2017, the percentage of foreigners on unemployment is also increasing from year to year, foreigners being 26% unemployed, about 21% in 2016 and fewer in the previous few years. The activities of the last year have not been sufficiently useful to immigrants. Therefore, we need governments to act through specific and individualized measures, e.g. Advice in the language of jobseekers and formal recognition of real skills It is important that active immigrants be part of the formal labour market to ensure recognition of education and their experience, as well as their rights, on which there are several offenders. Education is needed for both professionals and immigrants. Intensification and identification of the role of the surveillance organisations are required. The importers are required to assume that public members always protect their rights and the rights of the Icelandic employees. A respectable president. The well - being of the well - to - do is a host of social factors. One of the most important and complex tasks in society is to counteract prejudice through informed discussion. Knowledge and understanding are the most successful way to root out prejudice, so it is important that as many people as possible get to know immigrants personally. Such a presentation opens the door at the same time to an Icelandic community for immigrants and their children. School and leisure work without separation, a labour market characterized by wide-minded, unprejudiced, and well - being systems for all are key factors in this relationship. Many immigrants do not use services available to them because of the lack of information in the local language or because the services are available only in the Icelandic language. This confirms the recent news that information in public websites and administrative sites is more often than just in Icelandic. People who provide counseling to immigrants say it makes it difficult for foreigners to settle down in Iceland and adapt to society. This is one example of government indifference to the interests of immigrants. One of the roles of the Mégé site is to present such information. There is knowledge and experience, however, the Agency is financially lacking. Bioavailability and information on government public services, such as health and insurance services, and rurals, such as school and vacation work, must be ensured. Public ministry is an important part of this. A respectable president. The results of the election in many European countries last year indicate that the growth and spread of extremes that promote nationalism and hatred of foreigners and masses are a fact. In this country, such views have also been given sound bases, and even its faint echoes have been heard in a chamber. In many countries, groups of foreigners have become influential positions, councils, and rural governments, and some countries even have been able to enter the Presidency. Iceland is to be in the lead when it comes to dealing with this trend and building on a strong baseline justice. A respectable president. I've spoken a few words about the synopsis of this process of developing a policy that promotes people of foreign origin to participate in Icelandic society. Giving increased attention to the affairs of immigrants, both time and money, is not an option but a long time period of need. It is an investment in those who will inherit the land. [[The president calls.]] Many of these number to the future Icelanders and already add an important weight to the balance of employment and to the field of knowledge. Should we not follow the example of the Canadians and make it a community covenant to be the people who know and understand the significance of immigrants? To that end, we need to awaken from sleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u17	President. Hv. I believe that most people can agree on most of the goals he described. But you must wonder, " How serious is the contribution? ' A senator with noble goals and beautiful words. I gave this particular thought because I listened to it. A member of the Parliament here at the Council of the Middle Party, especially the members of the Middle Party, and perhaps the entire Party, for wanting to have discussed certain covenants that should take place in Iceland. It is very strange that while a senator is coming up and requesting that a policy be developed, a senator who teaches himself on the matter of conversation would like to be discussed, he sees a reason for entering one certain member of Congress for asking only for a discussion of an international contract to be part of. So you ask yourself, " What's the point of a word? ' A senator? We know a lot of people who either engage in politics or observe them, that the organization has often been a group of virtual politics rather than a real princely party. What I felt was a key element of the message. A senator was taking care of equality and life without discrimination. And I couldn't agree more with any goals than to look out for equality and life without discrimination. But it should, by reason of what it is. A senator to reach everyone? Or wants some. A senator denounces certain groups just for wanting to talk? Wants to play. A senator stamps out his political opposers, thus taking out the rights that according to his own description should reach all?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u18	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Whether this synoptic proposal is a goal depends on how it will be applied. I hope she's approved. Regarding my comments at the council, I allowed myself to comment on the fact that there are opinions in the community that we believe are contrary to by ignorance, prejudice. The statement that took place here in December with regard to the Marrakesh Convention was evidently not to exchange opinions on the affairs of immigrants or refugees but to mislead them. It was a big misunderstanding, it seemed to be. Her tone seemed quite light, as was my experience. I'd like to allow myself to have the freedom to make comments on the case. But I'm not condemning that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u19	President. It's all right. A senator made it clear that he was not condemning the desire to discuss international agreements that Iceland plans to make or intended to become a party. But as a result, it is very strange that he has set the matter up in the way he did, discussing this with some extreme movements in Europe, just because of one incident. A senator would note that there was no discussion here on an important international agreement. Then you ask yourself, " Is this contract of yours relevant to each other? ' Doesn't he have any effect? Isn't Iceland going to follow him? Or was. A senator merely uses this as an excuse to place his political opponent on a particular group and condemn him? That's what I'm talking about. A senator does not give evidence of prejudice? My experience with political talk in Iceland and, in fact, in many other places, is that it is largely the people who boast most that it is unbiased who have the greatest prejudices toward others and who seek the worst sins they can find and try to apply it to other people and thus condemn it in this way but exalt themselves. Is it not reasonable that when Iceland plans to share in the international work, what that means? Or what was it like? paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, who indicated that he wanted something else, had other goals, did not just want to have a discussion about whether this contract was in order to reach them. A senator described in his speech exactly, and we must agree to ensure equality and life without discrimination and quality of life in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u20	Thank you. A senator for the second answer. I'm glad that I don't hear any better than he's going to support this proposal. That's fine. The Marrakesh convention hasn't actually, like the rest of the day. A senator pointed out, received extensive coverage at the council, but the coverage it received and the presentation as well as the subject. A senator came along to the council, reminded me, in December, of a misunderstanding. He made this clear, or his understanding, that we lost the potential grip of those who came into the country and here would be flocking to people of all ways, and this could be a possibility to prevent the misunderstanding of the country's sovereignty. This contract is not binding, but it is a deportation for Iceland in my opinion that we are involved in the contract, sharing in the worldwide international community work we are dealing with people around the world. It is an enormous task that we are expected to share in by our contributions, but it does not oblige the nation in any way. That's right, like what's wrong. A senator made it clear that the discussion has not been a great deal about this agreement, this agreement, at the council, and that not all nations around us are in this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of this council concluded a fine review of it and also a thank - you for the gentle tone of human rights and human kindness I recognize in his case, both when he reviewed the matter and also in his other comments here. I think this is the most excellent suggestion and well worth considering developing a policy as an advanced people of foreign origin to participate in Icelandic society. This is an enormously important case, and it's not bound to us here. There are countries all over the world discussing the same things, how these matters will be best handled. I think it's always good to build a policy, sit down, and review the best way to do things, and without me going through this matter, I'm very positive to this idea. I came up here especially to call attention to two closely related issues, one here, and the other at the National Council. Hv. paritaprevir Brjánsson is a member of a welfare committee. As part of the proposal for the formation of immigrants. I hope it depends on the idea that these transporters have of a course that should be molded to promote people of foreign origin to participate in Icelandic society, although not mentioned here, perhaps normal, since it has not yet come true. I've told you, it doesn't matter what that part of the place is called, just that it has this consistent role and that it provides information about all the services that people of foreign lands need to perform on their arrivals, that it is united in one place. I hope that the carriers of this proposal will look at the suggestion very positively, because it is exactly the same spirit that is behind it; to coordinate and figure out how to do things best with the interests of those who need to keep in mind. However, I was not allowed to come up here because I was sitting at a meeting of the Council of welfare yesterday, and this proposal is called in a very good way with the work being done at the National Council. They presented work that is just what is called adaptation of refugees and immigrants and that is quite interesting, both hard research and a direct support for certain projects. I kind of wanted to encourage them. A panel that will be treated as a reliable health committee to investigate what is being done there. One of them is to synchronize economics, as tremendously unsettling as it sounds, in all the North countries. The fact is, we differ in understanding what refugees are and what they are. That's why there's a comparison between policy and what's best been difficult, but there's an institution that's been looking over it. I see, for example. that here is a definition in this language of immigrants which are not in other aspects of this connection, so there are many definitions. It is very good to look to what is being done there, for what is being done in other countries has also been considered. The countries differ with different emphasis. In some places most of the emphasis is on employment, as soon as possible. In other places, the most emphasis is on education, and when I say the most emphasis is on something, it doesn't mean that the other is not stressed, it's about priorities. NordForsk, the Norwegian Center for Research, has supported all these studies in Anglo - Saxon, by permission of the President, the New Nordic Research Program. This particularly interesting study may be the result of its participation in Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Britain. There I think that I am a great source of learning that could be used to work as a community that I think I will always have to go through the shape of this course that is being proposed to take place here. The main focus on this work has been on job participation as well as on children, children without escorts, and children accompanied by families. The policy is to obtain employment within four weeks before reaching the country. These are some of the goals that I think we as a body of Congress and the House of Congress, which will be considered on this matter. I'm invited, and I'm prepared, as I'm on the Board of Health, to refer, if you wish, to this job everyone I'm talking about. Otherwise, President, I just want to reiterate that I think it's a positive matter. We must all want the people who are looking here for some reason to feel as comfortable, so simple now, that it is in the best way possible to back them up and accept them as well as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér for his excellent introductory and warm words toward this proposal. Of course, all that improves the outcome of this class and the attitude toward immigrants make us feel good. On the other hand, the proposal emphasizes the need to shape policy as a whole. We may consider opening an immigrant room, according to a synonym. A senator referred to, was like one tooth wheel in a large gangwork that we have not yet constructed or made, and may have to be the premise for us. All evidence suggests that there is a great need for services of the kind that the senator points to and the conclusion goes on. We do not have a blank sheet of paper, for we have a multicultural facility at Isafjordur, who has done a good job but who has worked at great financial difficulties and who wanted to do more and better work and could do it. This does not change the fact that in this area where most of the immigrants live, there is a great need for the immigrant office and the two agencies that can be alone. Of course, they are to work closely together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u23	President. Thank you. A senator's comments. As I came to understand in my speech, it may be reasonable that this does not refer to a possible institution that has not yet existed. But because we're discussing it, even though it's technically part of another Senate case, it's all under the same hat that we're all thinking. I agree with what. A senator's concern about the importance of looking at the institutions there, as it is said in this fine language. I hope so. A welfare committee will examine how this is best handled. Hv. A member of the United States named Polythesis and the important work that is being done there. That is so true, as we have agreed on the case we have recommended regarding the immigrant counseling agency. Whether or not there'll be two institutions, like a dog. A senator came on, or one is a secondary factor, the most important thing is that this will benefit those who need the best. The role of a multicultural facility is to provide advice to governments, especially on policy. According to some evidence, the agency responsible for the ministry should be more separate from governments, primarily to those who attend the service there, not directly connected with governments and policy. There are various ways to do this; two institutions, two departments within the same facility, etc. The reason I brought up that matter, a respectable president, is because I think it's so called to this matter. It just says that it's important to improve the formation of immigrants, and I think it's the idea and the proposal for the immigrants' counseling agency to fit into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u24	A respectable president. These are interesting thoughts. In this way, there is a great work to be done in building up the interiors in this service. Although most are southwest, immigrants live throughout Iceland. But how are we going, e.g. to render service abroad? And who is to be behind the agency as this one in this area and where should it be? Is she supposed to be in Reykjavík? We have important and deep - seated community institutions around the country, probably in seven, eight places, a work agency, which is a bit strongly linked to the seminary. How can we activate those organizations? There are other partners, e.g. The red cross that works all over the country, and this is something we have to do. It's just going to be productive and upbuilding to work on this thing. I hope for all of us that we will succeed in creating increased understanding, for in Iceland there are 45,000 immigrants and their families. There are thousands of young children in school. We haven't been able to put our arms around these assignments, to get them on. In high school, we graduate fewer than is desirable. Of course, the death of the U.S. students from high school is an independent concern, but there's a lot of opportunities for us to pick up. Of course, this is not undisputed. Above all, information, education, and prejudice are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u25	President. I couldn't agree more with that. A senator can agree with every word in his language. It seems to me that I have managed to infiltrate the concept of the immigrant counseling agency while it is still under discussion on a committee. It wasn't my intention, but I accept an invitation. The senator to discuss these matters joyfully. I share exactly that vision as it is. A senator came in, that developing awareness and service is the most important thing, in the end of which it is a matter of feeling the most comfortable. Hv. A senator mentioned many interesting factors when it comes to services, as is behind the idea of immigrants'counseling, the Work Department, and the Red Cross. The labor movement has been both educational and so supportive when it comes to terms and jobs, education, and so forth, so that it is taken into account how best it is. Therefore, the thought of an immigrant counselor's office that may be needed for some new phenomenon over all of this, was contrary to all of this, since it has become part of a state of service, community service, right and duty markets, education rights, employment support, and general participation in society, etc. The name of the agency doesn't matter. The way she's organized, it doesn't matter what it does if it works. Where she is, I think it will end so that there will be a service center or branch office, and I hope so, where immigrants can approach as many as possible in the community, whatever their names are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u26	Madam President. Thank you for offering me this proposal. The second part of it reads so, by permission of the President: It will focus on social rights, health services, education, and employment to become a population in Iceland where basic factors are equal, justice, and respect for life without discrimination. It's like talking out of my heart. The problem, however, is that we Icelanders have suffered a measure of mismanagement in welcoming people of foreign backgrounds. In itself, we have not learned anything from the mistakes of the nations around us. It is urgent that we take steps in this regard. See page 18. 3 in the report on education: The key to success for children and young people in school, leisure and social work is... In fact, this is in reverse because it has been examined in scientific terms that if children are to gain power in language number two in the country to which they move, they must first be taught in their own native tongue. Otherwise, the danger is that they will not be in the right language or in writing. As stated in the fine report, by permission of the president: ▪ The children of people of foreign lands do not apply for high school, and of that small group, they graduate an even lower proportion. It's even Because we have not been able to do this in teaching children primarily in their mother tongue. This is nothing exclusive to Iceland. I know, for example. about the three neonates in Denmark, and they are not taught in the language, Icelandic, by the authorities; yet, Denmark is considered an exemplary country in the welcome of foreign immigrants. But we try to compare ourselves with the fine northern countries that are supposed to be our model. President. Some seem to think that once an immigrant is delivered a bouquet and a box of chocolates at Leifs station is completed, then it begins. Then we need as a community to put our arms around them and allow them to thrive in society. It's been so much short, in my opinion. The fact is that we do not have our foundation built so that we can accept immigrants in a decent way. That's why I was very upset to hear it. A member of the Central Party and a member of the council who raised the issue of a small discussion about the Marrakesh's contract. He also warned that his approval would flow here with a number of immigrants, natural, that we would not be prepared to receive properly, not because they were in some way opposed, but because our foundations are not prepared to receive a very growing number of immigrants. Then there is the independent issue that we have failed to succeed in dealing with people who have the position of inmates or who are applying for protection here. Its case takes way too long before the release is achieved. This has resulted in dismissing people from this source who are taking root, children coming to school, etc. Of course, they have the right to address their case in a way that is, in a way that, unfortunately, our budget, or our institutions, in a way that is decent in order to prevent a situation that has been raised. This may be what needs to be warned. As we consider a suggestion like this, we need to realize what we need as a society to do in order to fulfill the expectations we suggest. Therefore, we need to consider what we have to do and how to build up needed foundations, what we must do to further our educational systems in order to be prepared to give our children, if I can put it that way, an opportunity that they have not had. We know that a drop from high school among children of foreign origin is far too high, and we need to stop this from becoming a generation of people who, as you say, never got a chance. We should try to prevent us from contributing to this failure to make it possible for whole generations to think of themselves as underlings because they have not been given an opportunity because we have not given them an opportunity. This is what we need to take special care of when discussing a suggestion like this. On the other hand, in our discussion we should avoid giving ourselves the impression that our opponents in politics have some different motives when it comes to the media, even though they do not feel exactly the same way we do. If we fall into that pit, we have fallen into the pit recorded in the Gospel of Luke in the account of the Pharisee and the tax collector. There, two men marched into the temple together. One lifted up his hands to heaven, and looked at heaven, and struck his breast, saying, "Guð, thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. Even though tax collectors were respected in today's society, they had a questionable record. This may be one example of how when one class has a chance to prove its identity, it gains greater respect in the community. But the tax collector stood far away, and didn't go into the house, and covered his head, saying, "Guð, be gracious to me a sinner." The lesson for us is that this man went to his home righteous rather than the other man, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. I think that should be our theme when we discuss these matters and other matters, without premeditating an intolerance to the opinions of others, or establishing opinions that we certainly do not have. I'm not going to have a messenger. I think it was clumsy on his part, and I trust it. I hope this case has a pay and careful trip through the Generals and that we take a frank discussion on how we as a society need to improve and our basic resources in order to provide the group that we so would like to receive and give an opportunity and a better opportunity than the people where they live or are born. To that end, we need to take the matter clean, avoiding stumbling into one another and speaking down to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u27	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir SeymundÞorsteinn Sæmundsson for his excellent speech. I thank him for his fine thoughts, Christian thoughts, which are helpful in this room. I hope he gives thought to things that are more widely in the world, even within his own council. I don't make individuals or members of Congress ulterior motives or precedents. I just put meaning into words that fall and the deeds of men. I hope we get together to cut off the extras of our proposals, which may cause some misunderstanding, but the suggestion is to suggest that we create a policy on this issue. It's twisted. It's hard. Hv. A senator refers to an arrangement in Denmark, and we have long looked to the north as a model country. They have a real problem with these lawsuits, and they are not able to handle these matters as they would have chosen. Yet, they have their policies and try to do so by prisoners. We need to do the same. Here are tens of thousands of immigrants who have made themselves very well. This is an aid that has been welcome in Iceland, and we have lived under a very favorable situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u28	President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. It didn't seem like a direct question to me, but I can tell why. A member of Parliament for the conferences of the Central Party is a natural reading. We review our remaining Christian values, and some of us have appeared and said: " Be gracious to me the unrighteous. So you really don't have anything to do with it. Wait a minute. A senator will listen and pay attention. But it may be the right thing to do. Senator Danir has a very good policy in this case, and I have no doubt about it. But this does not change the fact that children of Icelandic origin do not receive instruction in their mother tongue, at least in part in Denmark. Then I'm talking about a city of size in Reykjavík. I don't know what it's like in Copenhagen. I remember that the Icelandic society has some activity there. But that does not change the fact that the authorities are not involved in this matter. As a result, we need to learn from the mistakes that the northern nations have certainly made in favor of many immigrants. It has crystallinered, e.g. in a Norwegian political speech, and then probably 1980,1985, if I recall correctly. A caution was given there, including Of the university professors who were immediately branded Rasists, Norway was shocked by their opinions and warnings at that time. Sadly, though, many of those warnings came true, for the situation became far more difficult than the Norwegians had imagined, even harder than the authorities could handle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u29	A respectable president. Hv. A senator points to interesting subjects. As I have mentioned, this group of subjects is important in all our closest European countries and is taking a lot of space in the discussion. We've made this up in quite a shelter. We live on an island, and we can limit the flow of people to us and, in fact, from. But Danir has not been part of it because he wants to pick it up and has picked up a lot of immigrants. Hv. A senator spoke of Danir's making mistakes. Who does he think was Dana's biggest mistake in dealing with immigrants? Who does he think should be our main point? And then, after reading this council decree, it may be that. A senator that he will immediately support the discussion and take care of the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u30	President. With regard to Dana's mistake, it may be the closest thing to pointing at the problem. A senator is to investigate her sister class's direction in Denmark, how she has changed over the years, since being so grudging and now being rather harsh. This may be because Danir received a large number of immigrants that they could not properly care for. The mistake may be that in Denmark these groups have been somewhat isolated. The word has to do with immigrant areas that do not improve the quality of life of those living there or encourage them to adapt to the society they have moved into. This is all a mistake we should learn from because we do not want it. We do not want immigrants to become a group of poorly educated individuals who live somewhere by themselves, adapt to our evil society, and fail to achieve their own results. We need to make sure that those who search here will have better benefits than those they fled in their time. This should be close to us because in the years 1850 until 1900, 20 to 30% of the nation traveled from the west through the sea. They were welcomed, and they enjoyed the fruits of their labor. That's exactly what we want the searchers to do, too, that they thrive in a new society that accepts them. That's what I think it's about. Whether or not to back it up will come to light when it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u31	Madam President. We'll discuss a council proposal from whence. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson and of others. Councilmen of the United States on the shape of policy, to promote people of foreign origin, to participate in the Icelandic community. I think this is a very important matter, although only for the reason that I think all the discussions about the languages of immigrants and how we as a community make it possible for people from all parts of the world to sit here and live and how we as a community work to welcome people, to welcome them, to be very important. That's how I feel the discussion should turn. Icelanders may be more dependent on the fact that, on a very large scale, we need to seek knowledge, study, and other foreignities, so we are many at that time strangers or immigrants in some sense in other countries, many in many lands. I think most of us feel that because we're at least the Western European countries, which in many respects think they're highly developed and all of that, we must all be very welcome. Still, when we sit in someone else's house, we are at the mercy of others. That is why it is even more important to us, perhaps someone would say, when others are in the position of coming here, whether out of need or simply out of interest or to support themselves or to get a job, to welcome them. It is as mentioned in the preceding discussion what most religions would consider to be a very positive approach to guests and visitors. You don't have to tell a lot of people what people who move here to work is important Icelandic society. We know that in order to form hospitals and probably most medical institutions would not harm us if there was not an offer in a foreign labour force, people who do their jobs at all times, at all times, that Iceland does not seem to be sufficiently interested in. There we will see how important it is for us to make sure, for example. The rights of the individuals who come here to function. It is another factor about what this suggestion is about, making people whom we would like to receive as part of our community possible to understand and enjoy their rights. That's why it's very important. Then, especially, it is important to discuss these matters in what I would like to call a preemptive. The positive talk about those and those who want to settle down here is probably one of the most powerful preventive measures against all kinds of extremes, against all kinds of peripheralities that have been around us in many parts of the world, and some of them come quite close to setting up at the controls, and even reaching all the way in this regard. It is very important for us as a community, if we continue to have an open community, if we want to continue to have a community that welcomes everyone, that there is just the positive thing about welcoming people of foreign origin, that it is positive to explain to people that they have rights and that they are human rights that we as a community are not going to put up against. That's a good start. I naturally hope that this fine suggestion will lead to what? The welfare committee. But if I don't, I'm looking forward to seeing the product that will come soon from the General and Education Committee, if that were the case, at the second time. The point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u32	President. I'm moving here with what. Gunnarsson A case previously proposed to Council 141 Jón's Jóhannesdóttir, Ásta Ragnheiður, then president of the Generals. It's a good idea to make sure that both of us are together. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson almost at the same time decided that it was time and that it was necessary to remask this matter; so we agreed to move it together. What has happened since the introduction of this matter is in a number of ways designed to substantiate the importance of the initial attack on this change of law. The objective of the law, or this bill, is to ensure the responsibility of the Generals on the development of planning plans and participation in the implementation and construction of the International Assembly. The expression "The International Assembly " refers to the immediate surroundings of the Assembly Hall Hall here in the downtown city of Reykjavík. In recent years, there have been tremendous changes in downtown Reykjavík, and unfortunately, they are not all improved, and in many ways has been conducted, which, in my opinion, and in many others, are very damaging to the environment here in the middle of the city. This has been driven by growing profits due to increasing property prices and application to make the most of the area in the central city. There have been historical developments, cultural values, and need not be far - reaching to find examples of these. It is enough to look here over the street where people have been shoveling away possibly the oldest cemetery in the country, where the smokers were buried for over 1,000 years, the people who built this city and developed it. However, there are many more examples. I'm not going to trace them all here, but it's not gonna be time. But all around the Assembly Hall will be very tangible to this development, not just when they pass by construction sites and see them, but today almost every day the members of Congress experience the tremendous strokes and thunders and the occurrence of human earthquakes on account of these activities of all who, as mentioned earlier, are driven by an ever - increasing profit hope, which goes on increasing the level of building and walking on this second small and longest of the most populous features of the downtown city of Reykjavík. Whatever the case, there must be a set of rules or rules for the immediate environment of the Generals. To illustrate, we can imagine whether it would be tolerated in any of our neighboring countries that such an attack would be carried out as at present just a few yards from the House of Congress, without the idea that the General Assembly itself, the Lawgiver, would have something to say. The assembly's arrival in these matters has been a mere form of communication to Reykjavík, as if it were just another comment that has been dismissed, ignored, and ignored. In fact, to make matters worse and to show its power, the city in opposition to the council's will has not been throwing stones in this chamber but just as far as it is concerned. Of course, there are differing opinions about what is good in the environment or at any rate. But it must be natural to insist that the U.S. legislature, the Lawgiver himself, even to say how the church's immediate surroundings develop but what has really been the case. As a result, the state of the council is guaranteed in a very tangible way in a constitution, including the Council's immunity regulations and the general peace of work must not be disturbed. But back to the comparison of the foreign countries. Can anyone imagine ever allowed to dig up almost to the British House in order to represent a hotel where people would remember that on the ever - growing roads and, of course, people without the British Parliament had something more to say than to be able to send talks to the government of London? Of course, such things would never have been possible. I don't think a European legislature would be offered that the city authorities at the head site simply decided to squeeze into the council's activities and to the extent we see here just outside the window, that the newest projects reach almost beyond the council's houses. I think there's five meters or something missing up there. This comparison with other countries makes it clear to me, at least, how weak Generalis's position is in the environment of the council. I challenge the person who can point out something else to show that another Assembly in neighboring lands could not do that. It was Jóhannesdóttir that this situation would not be a pleasure and that it Ásta be a number Ragnheiður years ago. As I mentioned at the outset, the importance of this contribution by the then president and the sin it is that the bill is not already a law, because it could have made it possible for the council to protect the immediate surroundings of the Senate. When it comes to organizational matters, it is highly discussed that they are in the hands of rural society, and it has been mentioned in this context too, in the case of the city of Reykjavík, that the planning of the community and in some way being handled, not only in the company of Reykjavík, but also in general, by making adjustments, although these areas may be extremely small in relation to the size of the entire city of Reykjavík. But then there is the possibility that this is not a broken magazine at all. I'm here giving examples from abroad, but it is also noted that the planning of the Keflavík airport and its environment is in a special way and that it is under the Board of Organizations of the Chefavour Airport. The same is true of the Þingles, where the Parliamentary Committee has a special role in organizing an organization in the National Park. In either case, society alone can rule. I don't suppose I have to trace the exact reasons for that. As far as I'm concerned, they're in my eye. But I find the reasons as obvious in the case of the General Assembly, in the case of the Lawgiver, who makes Reykjavík the honor of serving here and making it the capital of the country. Not everyone agreed at the time that this should be the case, and a significant deal was under way, for example. Whether Reykjavík or Congress should be the head, but it should be in Reykjavík for a practitioner's reason. But it is, of course, a duty on the part of the city, to which the General Assembly of the whole country, not just councils of Reykjavík and Smokeports, and hence natural, especially with the pre - Christian examples, is that the council has something to say about how its immediate surroundings are organized and as I had a need for such occasions in recent years become increasingly evident. However, the proposal is that a minister oversees the planning and humanitarian operations of the International Assembly, while ship five men to the International Assembly Board and Building Committee. Two shall be appointed according to the appointment of the Council, two according to the appointment of Reykjavíkurburg, and one minister without appointment. And there it is clear that the plan is not to put Reykjavíkurburg, the local community, on the other hand in this matter. Reykjavíkurburg will continue to have an active access to the organization of the area here via this committee and the subsequent procedure for the decisions made by the Committee. This suggests that the city planning representative of Reykjavík will be involved with the International Parliamentary Board of Organizations and Building and will be seated at its meeting with free speech and proposals, and the city's construction representative will supervise man - made operations in the International Assembly, in accordance with the regulations of the law. I could refer to other communications between the Committee and the city, but all of this involves the same well as is described in the bill and report by which this is the cooperation of the Parliament and the city in the organization of this area. So there are many reasons to believe that this change would be greatly improved, but most of all, it is not like every other hotel, but is part of the whole country in a certain way. Even if Reykjavík is privileged to be the capital of the country, she needs to respect the Senate's special position and give it the opportunity to have something to say about the environment's organization. I could refer to other examples of what has been missing in recent years. I'm going to pass on doing so in this talk. I have written quite a few things about it recently and will continue to do, but evolution has shown that there is a lack of respect for important points in the environment of the council, whether they are aesthetic, practitional, access, safety, and so forth. I expect this case will work out as easy a way through the council, of course, with a natural trial. I'm not expected to be broken by Congress to finish this immediately without discussion, but it is an urgent need to reevaluate the manner in which the organization of this area should be conducted and only to look out of the window in order to recognize it. After this discussion, I suggest that this matter be involved. The European Environment and Transport Committee of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u33	Mr. President. I would like to begin my case with the movers for their vigilance in this matter. I've studied the bill and I'd like to state that I agree with it on basics. I'd like to stop at one point, though I'd like to go inside. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, who was left in charge of organizational and humanitarian operations in the International Assembly. A senator made a subject of his ensuing talk. What I pause to do is that in the five members of the International Assembly and Building Committee, two of the appointees will be appointed by Generalis, which must be considered normal at least, but then two shall be assumed according to the renovated city of Reykjavík and one without renovations. Now it is, like, cot. A vehicle traced the city's organizational activities to a number of developments. If you just put it that way in general, you can't see that there's a lot of confidence in the city's authority in everything when it comes to organizational matters, and especially in the middle city. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether he feels certain enough that this committee is thus composed that the members of this committee have proved to be, we can say, at least in chapters, a little discrepancies in organizational matters; all that is needed is to look out of the window, like a boy. A senator mentioned in his letter of transit to see this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u34	President. It's a reasonable and reasonable criticism, I think it's safe to say. But I remind you that the bill is presented unchanged from its contribution to the 141th legislation and takes into account what might be called an average and more large number, as a matter was watching at that time. It also takes into account other examples. But that certainly is true. A senator may say that what has happened in the meantime may not lead to an increase in the belief that the city's representatives are prepared - of course, depending on how they choose, but it is not entirely certain that if they became political, it would be a small price to pay for things being brought to a better place. So I'm gonna criticize myself on the way, and the bill's on the end of the question. A senator's point is that representatives of the council are, in fact, a minor member of the General Assembly Board under this recommendation, as the odd man, so to speak, the fifth member, is appointed by a minister without a form of appointment. Whether the recent developments give us a basis for reviewing these laws is a matter of great concern. At least I am very open to discuss this matter here at the conference hall and at work at the Committee's office that shows that there are other reasons to do this. However, this was the way the proposal was suggested at the time and would no doubt at that time have been long enough. However, evolution is then designed to give you a measure of fear, certainly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer as well as for opening up the way for him to support himself in a different system of matters. The risk is obvious, so that I allow myself to say, if you look at events in the past weeks and months, as they turn to a Viking cemetery, the shrine of Ryevík, the way the language has been heard in the indications of experts, amateurs, etc., church men and the views respected vetergis on the part of the town's authorities, this is a major concern. I'm glad that the original person in this matter was with his speech right here and now, in response to my question, conveying messages to them, in order to form with a council committee, that he could envision a second order of affairs regarding the controlled planning and humanitarian management of the International Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u36	President. I just reiterate understanding. A senator is correct, and I try to guide the general way of being willing to examine the criticism and new viewpoints of Congress. I did not think I would drive the case through without a discussion and force members to vote in a certain way. Far from me, Mr. President. Hopefully, this case will be the best of discussion, and we will get a good argument about it and, if necessary, take steps to make the laws of law the best possible. The General need to do so, and perhaps now more than ever, show that there is a problem with action, respect law, value law rules, respect legal procedures, and show that it works well from reason, from fact to fact; take it into account, as it were. A senator pointed out here, but he is not just a platform to provide specific suggestions and force generals to vote in a certain way. Hopefully, the work on this subject will be the best of all and will make the work the best possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u37	Mr. President. As the first transporter was traced in his history, there has been a series of events that are entirely unprecedented in the vicinity of the Assembly Hall. And the fellowship of a Viking cemetery, my historical, an ancient cemetery, and such, I allow myself to say, natural by the endemes. Similarly, challenges, detailed discussions, articles, have been insensitive. There have been archaeologists, architects, Honorers of Reykjavík, professors of history, and many more people who have spoken their language of knowledge, thoughtfulness, and reason, but there seems to be nothing. You may think of the concept of a contractor democracy at such times. Therefore, how happy we are that we have the International Parliament bill for the Organizational Action and Manicults Act in the General Assembly! I'd like to use this opportunity to report that I've had a proposal for Congress that is intended to help cope with the bad developments that arise. In fact, there was much to say. The Conspiracy proposal is to take practical measures, to hide financial and economic ministers from the State's possession of the Land Phone House by looking for contracts for the house, but otherwise to prepare for the State to take the section of the construction property of the Viking Churchyard. The suggestion is final, and I am grateful for it. The carer of the bill we're discussing here for his support of that matter. According to 36 st. The Constitution is nonviolent to the General. It says that no one must disrupt the peace or freedom of the Allied people. Presumed construction and activity at the Land Phone Zone in the East, where there is a large, large hotels and restaurants in the middle of tourist traffic and a group vehicle, may rightly include intertwining intervening intercoms in opposition to the proposed regulations. This is not to be tolerated, and it is essential that the Council send a clear message. I believe it will do so by means of the bill presented here and by the synoptic proposal I am offering in this speech, so that there is a clear message in Icelandic society that at the General Assembly, they will not accept the fact that it is carried out in the way that it is done. I'm going to take this opportunity to quote Helgi emerius Þorláksson in an article he wrote in which he runs to the beginning of a Viking churchyard can be traced back to 1,000 years, where people have been buried in the late 19th century. The article further says, with the permission of a president: But tombstones will rot and memories will disappear. At such times, it is a good and old custom to show honor to a cemetery, to set up memories of the dead, and to allow the living to enjoy the peace granted to the dead. That is a great story of the relations between state and General and city authorities. All of this will be included in a paper with this synopsis proposal. As I mentioned at the outset, her preparation is final. I'm gonna let me describe the hope that she'll be right back, and I'm gonna have an opportunity to measure for her, so she's gonna be treated for Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u38	President. Like what? I believe a senator could support his proposed proposal, consider it very timely, and indeed sharpened. It was interesting to hear the senator relate to the way a person could see that it was natural to show respect for the cemetery and how heartbreaking contradictions are expressed in the words at any given moment. A senator went along and so on as we look out through the window. Not long ago, I was in London and went on to a park, a beautiful, pleasant garden. What seemed strange to me at the park was that many houses were turning their backs into the garden. It was as if the park had not been organized as a public space, but it enjoyed much of it. Then I saw a monument showing that it was an old cemetery, and it stressed the respect of the people. Everyone was welcome to the park, but no one seeing that monument showed respect for the area. President. It was in the center of London, where real estate prices are worth far more than what it is in Reykjavík, and it is now high in the central city of Reykjavík, where no one is going to consider digging away this old cemetery, even though the gravestones are gone, to build more behind the houses. That garden was not nearly as old as the cemetery here, Viking park, and did not have close to as much historic significance for the British people as that garden has for us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is, of course, that it is a standard moral standard for how it deals with matters, such as we are considering, ancient cemeterys. I have high hopes for two things, i.e. The bill he has recommended today and the body of Congress proposals I hope to recommend before long, get a good walk at the Council and broad support among members of Congress. I have hoped that the proposal would send a clear message into the community to the government, including that at the General Assembly will not allow any progress that has taken place, and that it may fall in order to be given a powerful resistance and the bad developments that have occurred in the immediate surroundings of the World Assembly Hall will be stopped and turned back. I hope that this district, a Viking churchyard, will get the peace and enjoy the privacy it deserves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u40	President. I agree with what. A senator and certainly hope that this will be the case and rejoice in his proposal again. But there's something else to be done, because it has to be said just as it is that it is a little awkward for the General that at the same time as making comments on projects in the vicinity, we're trying to blow off them, plans for the council itself to attack the construction of a huge black or grey box under the Algresss office at the next corner. So I, and in fact, have already suggested that the plans for them be reviewed. That building is designed with fine architects, but it does not belong in this place. It is important that the council take a good example in the development of the downtown community, and I don't talk about it if the council agrees with me. A senator and others, that there is supposed to be a special authority over his environment to make it better than it is and to make sure that the local environment of the council is meant to lose not only the security and natural favor of transportation but also the environment and the atmosphere that is acceptable to the Council. It's a few things, but all of this goes hand in hand. The motion I've recommended today, i.e. This bill, it's designed to do the other thing that needs to be attacked, whatever. A senator has mentioned, and that point I mentioned in this counterargument, easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u41	Mr. President. There is a truly great story behind it. In the past, there was vigilance and prodding of the government in the areas involved. I'm going to report here that there will be a review of a paper with the council decree I've reported, that the government of 1965-1966 seized into the channel of events that threatened the cemetery, a Viking garden, and prevented a large building, almost the same kind of one that is now planned to rise, hotels, giants south of the landhouse. Similarly, it will be noted that in March Eldjárn the church's planning committee under the direction of Mr. Sigurbjörn Einarsson Elkman, had brought to the attention Kristján a city lawyer that law was not permitted to build a building unless, according to a special minister of law, to have the clear approval of the Church's Committee, which was the prime minister of the current cemetery. This story is great and does not give me time to trace it. But I also thank you to the couriers of this bill, and I also restorate my hope that this presentation and proposal at the Council will have the work that I once had in my case, to provide a powerful resistance and to bring about a reversal in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u42	Mr. President. On the 10-year anniversary of the agricultural revolution, Pirantar and I contribute to the new constitution, which contains all the work done by nation and assembly before being placed in the 2013 drawer. The bill, however, can immediately be resumed. Just ten years ago, in the agricultural revolution, the minds and hearts of the people of the country began to develop the hope that democracy would work again. The Protestants demanded the resignation of the government, the resignation of the bank manager and the resignation of the head of the Commission - and a new constitution. The first three goals were met. It was changed, but was it enough? One of the main objectives of the agricultural revolution is still incomplete, reformed by a new constitution. The new constitution has been created by the nation from the beginning. The country arrived at a 2010 national meeting and proposed a change to the Constitution. The nation came to the same year at a vote and chose its representatives in a government council. Then, in 2012, the nation came to a national law code and chose to base the new constitution on a bill of administration. In democracies, it is the nation that is the chairman of the Constitution, and the Icelandic nation has decided to give itself a new constitution. Since then, the governments of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, and Bjarni son of Benediktsson, have failed to succeed or were unwilling to complete the new constitution and do the will of the nation. Now the ball is at the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is working on this. The contribution of Pirata and I is the new constitution in priority. In the final analysis, we want to see that the nation's will for a new constitution, as expressed in 2012 of its national law, is respected. Piratar and I have repeatedly suggested this in the General Assembly, and we have always put it as first priority when we're negotiating with other categories of government development. It is the simple new constitution that magnifies democracy, the right of all of us to be more involved, the right of the nation to participate, the right to influence, the right to hold politicians accountable, and the right to hold the civil rights of all of us. It expands the civil rights of all of us. This is Pirata's basic policy, this is why we exist. This is why on this 10-year anniversary of the dental revolution, we put on this new bill, the new constitution, which, as I say, contains all the work being done by a council and a nation before being placed in the 2013 drawer. The new constitution is ready for council and government, for a council ready to take it out of the drawer, finish it here at the General and send it to you, citizens of the country. In chapter I of the bill to the new constitution that we will discuss here, we will consider the principles on which the Icelandic government order is based. It stipulates government, that Iceland is a republic of the Constitutional government. The source of the government and its rulers and the tribunals of the government are also covered, and the territory of Iceland was finally covered by the right of Icelandic citizens. The emphasis on the human rights section in the new constitution is shown, including That the human rights team is removed from the Bellas. section in the current constitution in II. section in the bill of the Council of Control. Human rights all of us, our rights are in the foreground. That's the point of putting in a constitution and creating a community. How we organize the distribution of power will follow. Human rights are first. Human rights protection is one of the most important roles of the Constitution. Hence, a board of directors at one of their initial meetings decided that the Constitution section of the Constitution was one of the main tasks of the Council. That decision was based on some of the factors involved. in the national meetings, both 2009 and 2010, when the nation met and discussed the baseline society and the suggestions for how the Constitution was to be changed. Various human rights matters were just the minds of delegates. It is stated in the Council of Government that many of the emphasis on the basic review of the Human Rights section came directly from the National Meeting. This can be checked by any person who wishes to gulp the 2010 National Conference on the Constitution. There is a web tree in which all the suggestions for meeting attendance, including over 1,000 random people, can be negotiated and agreed. The European Court of Human Rights in the current constitution was updated in 2009 when the European Convention was legalized in this country, and it was necessary to update Icelandic rights regulations together with the legalization of the treaty. This gave rise to a major legal improvement in the protection of human rights in Iceland, while the Constitution's human rights has remained motionless ever since, in spite of much and rapid evolution in the community. The Internet and social media have transformed our community, how we communicate, and what right we want our government to provide. Then the collapse changed our appearance to society, and the nation began to look at their priorities as we saw in the 2009 and 2010 national meetings and then in terms of the new constitution. We saw at our national meetings that democracy, power distribution, honesty, values, were on the minds of the people. Such revolutions as #metoo have shown us the need to take further steps toward equality and that everyone should be protected from any form of violence. All of this helps us to understand the need to update the section of the Constitution. Human rights are often divided into two generations. The first, the oldest and most important generation of human rights is civil rights and political rights. They are rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of worship, right to vote, freedom from torture, rights that lay the foundation for modern society. In the core are civil rights that ensure that humans have their own autonomy, they can choose how to spend their lives without interference, without oppression. There are also the political rights that are human rights to have access to a joint decision, that they have the right to make decisions, either through representatives such as the New Constitution, or to have a direct approach to national law, in providing even with the support of 10% of the nation primers at the Council, a greater advantage in making decisions that are naturally necessary if you intend to protect the legal rights and are restricted by law if they contradict others. The new constitution includes the continuation of all the rights contained in the current constitution, which is updated and strengthened and expanded to give us a wider and stronger civil rights to the new constitution. Civil rights are guaranteed in 5,◯21. par. the bill for those who are interested in especially considering it. The political rights are found in the chapters of the General Assembly and the President of Iceland and the Government, and I'll get more after them. It was the first generation. Another generation of civil rights are often called economic, social, and cultural rights. The nature of these rights is not mere civil and political rights, for it requires that a legal right to a particular quality be guaranteed. First-generation rights usually require the exclusive rights or freedom that the citizens have, the right to decide without force and to interfere with the way they conduct their lives, as I mentioned and the right to make common decisions that affect their lives, their freedom and rights. With this second generation of rights, therefore, the State has a responsibility to ensure specific basic rights for citizens. The new constitution contains significant improvements in terms of second generation rights. It's with her, for example. the right to work and the decent work conditions, to health care and education. It may surprise many to know that these issues are not being fully secured in a constitution today. There are new provisions that ensure cultural freedom and academic liberty, the right to health and health care, the right of children, the right to living, social security, and social security. This economic, social, and cultural rights are guaranteed in 22,◯28. par. The bill for those who want to take a closer look. I only review what is said in those articles that are not in the current constitution. When it comes to civil rights itself, one of the key elements is the information and entry rights, i.e. Third-generation information right, which is the right of our citizens to receive from governments without subtracting all the information that governments either create or depend on the cost of, pay, without subtraction, although some exceptional case has been used to ensure the privacy of people's private lives, in order to ensure the benefit of research, and so on. Other than that, we have the right to get all of this. Today, we have to ask this question all the time. The third generation of information rights secured in the bill of administration and the bill we put here are based on the fact that all of this lies ahead of the government's initiative and in available form so that we can use this information to inform us about how rulers use the authority we hide them. For cultural rights - there is a law not in the current constitution, i.e. 24th par. of freedom to culture and education. 25. is about social rights, i.e. that everyone should be guaranteed the right to life and social security, as stated in the bill, the right to social security and social services, such as unemployment, childbearing, age, poverty, etc. Health, inaccessible environment, health care, education, and the right of children what is taken from the United Nations Children's Convention, which has been legalized in Iceland. But that's where it's put in a constitution and fixed up as a basic law of the land. Then there's IV. Chapter of the bill. He is involved in the General Assembly, the work and work of the Generals and the Generals, the election for the Generals, and the democratic involvement of the common people. When it comes to the election, there's something very interesting. When the voter enters the ballroom today, there are in front of him eight or ten konsk crates and he has the right to select one box of chocolates to open and eat the crumbs in the order of the company's choice. There may be bad crumbs, like noodles or something like that, and the voter will not want to eat any crumbs, but he should eat them if he chooses to choose this box. In the new constitution, however, the voter enters a ballroom and there are eight or ten boxes in which he can only open them all, and then he can only select the pieces he likes best. Maybe it's peppermint filled with chocolate and more liberal. Anyway, that's what I'd choose, but voters can pick out all the boxes. They may continue to pick one box and eat the crumbs like the party leadership decided to set them up or even the whole pack, but they can also open all the boxes and select the crumbs they want. This section of the bill includes the most significant extension of a current constitution. The current constitution is largely based on the Iceland Constitution as we received it from Denmark in its time, 1874. She was slightly different when we got our self - control and talked about the fact that we wanted to do it right away, only temporarily, we were about to change it. That complete reexamination was not conducted, but notice that the overall review began again in 2010 when the people met at a national meeting, which was chosen at random, and decided: These are the values and are the requirements we would like to receive in the new constitution. The nation then chose a government body, which, following its proposals, implemented a bill that the nation made in a national hearing and elected to form a new constitution on them. The nation has long begun to work for a new overall review of the Constitution. It is only the politicians that so far have not been able to move it further than what we see today. IV. A section on the Council is the role and administrative position of the Generals in favour of other government arms in the foreground. Today, this is relatively vague. Everything's clear and much better here. The natural position of the President of Iceland in the current constitution is very unclear and clearly explained. We face very likely that we are not entirely sure about the President's administrative position, which is shocking, especially when the president, as it is written in the constitution, has all kinds of authority. Let us not overlook the fact that up till now the president has only been using his right to say no, on the one hand, the proverb that is clearly written in 26. The Constitution, and it will remain in this bill, that he can refer matters to national pay if the council has approved any law. That's what's going on. That's what he's got. First, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson refused to sign. Would you Sigmundur to Davíð for me that I could Gunnlaugsson up a council if I would offer it to you? Ólafur Ragnar, says the story, says that he said, "No, I won't. Have you spoken to the government? At least this is the story, so Ólafur Ragnar seems to have done it, saying, "No, I'm not going to sign it. He uses his denial authority to make it necessary for the president's signature and no one will force the President's signature on paper. No one's looking up on his hand. Now the Guðni of Th. Speaking of reproaches, John the son of Jóhannesson said: "If there are more things written for me, I will not sign them. He has also said that he is not going to sign. He intends to say no by not using his signature. This is what is called negative, this is no initiative; this is a negative power, this is the no-go. In contrast, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, president of the debate for the 2012 election, said that he could present his own bill at the General Assembly. This is available on video. If a president were to make a bill, he would use his initiative, there are all kinds of regulations he can use. He can say that a person does not have to obey the law, yes, there is a law in the constitution that permits it. In fact, he has the authority that the nation would accept, that a relatively monarch would use. It takes the 3/4 part of the council to take the initiative to dismiss the president, and then half of the people have to agree to it on national terms. A popular political president of the present government with a very unpopular council and an unpopular government could take quite a number of broken steps toward an arbitrary system that most of us do not want. The new constitution makes clear the organization and practices of the Generals and the President. For the General Assembly there are three main roles, the legislation, the monitoring of the European Commission and the administrative authority, which is specifically described in the articles of the bill. The terms of the treatment of Congress have been substantially changed, as well as the addition of a special article on the treatment of the synonyms and other members of Congress. The Senate's surveillance role is strengthened, and the position of government opposition and the lower part is strengthened. Power spread. The requirement to pay from a government fund without permission to finance is considerable, and authority is limited to granting the state's responsibilities on private terms needs to be sanctified by the public interest. It was established by a committee called Legal Court, a chain at the General Assembly to give the council and members of the Parliament an opinion on the administrative value of a legal project. There's no such chain for today that's ordered by the council, so when we're confronted with whether this bill is a possible violation of a constitution, we have to rely on what is coming from the problems I have not felt correctly and have been applying more of this. There we would receive a special committee that would always be able to answer our questions as to whether the bills involved in the council were a potential violation of a constitution. In the 2008 economic collapse, we were faced with various aspects of the government structure of the country that did not function as planned. There was a need for improvement. That's why I started to get involved in politics in Iceland. After the collapse, a group whose name was the Internet Revolution was to play with ideas of how to change the Constitution in order to promote democracy and to increase the responsibility and right of the public to take more initiative and direct democracy. The Agency's study report on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks as well as in the 2009 and 2010 National Conferences showed the importance of changing the Constitution. Among the results observed at the National Meeting of November 6, 2010, on the Constitution was to control power in the national government ship and to improve the separating of law-and-success, to strengthen the rank of the Generals and to promote administration. The new constitution also increases the independence of the council from the Commission. It explains and sharpens the meeting's surveillance role and stresses increasing professionalism in preparing legislators. To achieve this granting of the legislation of the legislator to the Commission, you will find the following changes: First, the Council chooses the prime minister in direct open election, making it more clear that the prime minister and his government remain under the cover of much of the council. It is repeatedly in agreement with clear laws on distrust, so it is the council that chooses prime minister. The prime minister chooses his government, and it is the council that suggests whether the government will remain, whether the prime minister is replaced. At the same time, the prime minister cannot violate a council. It is power that the prime minister has today, and it is enormously powerful that he can break up a council and announce an election. It's even The discipline he has at the council, that if this doesn't work, and if the council somehow stands in the way of a prime minister, he says: "Hey, I'm just presenting a new election. In the new constitution, the council says: "No, we'll divide you, Prime Minister, and we'll get a new prime minister who can better control this country. Second, the Senate's legal role is improved. The general legislature will be the sole legislature of the legislature, and the President will no longer arrive at his contribution from the government. Yet, he holds his unsatisfactory right to refer to a law approved by the council in a national law. It's intact. It's exactly the same. It is mandatory that primes follow assessment of effects. There is a possibility that the bills will be held in two discussions rather than three. Then a quarter of the senators can refer to a bill in the legal process, i.e. if a quarter of the Parliament's members are unsure whether the bill violates the law, the senators can refer the case to the legal process. Third, only the General will be broken by the decision of the council itself, mentioned earlier, but not by the decision made by prime minister. This is extremely important. Fourth, it is reserved for prime minister to issue temporary laws. The legislature is at the General Assembly. Fifth, the Ministers no longer sit at a council and become members of the council who become ministers of the council to replace the throne of the assembly. This one is a major step towards the separation of law-enforcement and increases the independence of the council. As these are exactly the Ministers, I'm not talking about Ministers who are also presidents, a great deal around here, and can divide a considerable amount of jobs at the council. In addition, the General is given a number of other tools to monitor the European Commission. Among these are the requirements in a bill for a administrative law. Then there are the regulations for the Generals and the Government Reviews into the Constitution. This is the General Intelligence Agency with regard to the European Commission. Then the bill will set up some changes that will strengthen the memory of the part and therefore increase the consultation between government and government status at the General Assembly. The President of Generalis will be elected with 2/3 parts votes. He's making his way out of the general council. He doesn't have the right to vote. Is it to strengthen the confidence of the entire council to the president who directs it? Those who observe something at the General Assembly have repeatedly observed what the members of my section can be disgruntled with the President who has almost absolute authority on the program of the council, what subjects will be considered in votes, and how the details of the progress and handling of matters at the General Assembly. He can force a case from a committee in case of a switch. He is enormously powerful, and he often complains that he feels that the president is not in the interests of all the Generals, but in the interests of the government, and rightly. That's a good point. Is this to strengthen confidence in the chairman of the council? There are a number of cases requiring longer treatment and approval and requiring more than that, i.e. It takes 2/3 members of the Parliament to agree with them. At the management board's work, the main objective was to improve the public's ability to make decision-making, as everyone's right is to make decisions. It's just the democracy, as it also shows in Pirata's basic policy, exactly that law. This is a democratic law, as it was revealed at a democratic conference that was compiled by the United Nations, the United Nations Secretary - General, for the Democracy there. The main changes to ensure a better democratic approach to the public are as follows: voters' court, 76. g., that 10% of voters can issue a vote for new release laws. If voters reject them, they will fail. This is the court of paint, the safety valve, which is at the sites. He'll still be there. There, the president can shut it down if the Allied Congress approves the law and sends it to the nation. The people decide whether the law holds their worth. The new constitution adds another security valve, that 10 percent of the nation can send to the national law whether the nation wants to turn off the case and stop it so that we have two security valves. As we have seen, certain conditions, anyway, are set up by Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson as president. When we were trying to influence the reduction of hunting fees at the 2013 Summer Council when the Piratars first arrived at the council, we went and spoke to Ólafur Ragnar, and then he made a statement. Because it was not a fundamental change in the fishing system, it was just a lower fishing fee, he was not going to set the law in national terms. The people may have decided with their security provisions to do so, so there is the nation's great - rich right to stop a case if they feel they are not caring for their own interests and roles. Then there is the voter's proposal, i.e. Two percent of voters can present a Senate case or bill at the council. Congress can propose a counter proposal, and then you can put this--no, that's the bill, that's the suggestion. If the bill does come, then the council may offer a useful proposal, which is the case with national regulations. First there is the security valve, and then there's a suggestion that can be made to be discussed, and then there's the third thing, and it's a perfect course of initiative, 10% of voters to submit a bill. On this, you may be able to view as another type of security device. The first valves are to turn it off, but we also need a valve to turn things off, for sometimes governments are neglecting things. You have heard the discussion: Yes, older ones are in a bad position. You see people in institutions may not be able to bathe for a week, or so on. When a person goes to the older citizen's interests, it is clear that if some kind of righteous approach was to be made that the government was neglecting, the community organizations that protect the interests of which we all agree on this in a national hearing, would suggest that what is being neglected be done. One other example is the contribution made by companies to political parties. It's something the Americans really want to turn off more. It's something they don't do. It is neglected to do this and to respond to the will of the people of the land. The people of the country can turn off the matter, provide a program of 10% voters behind them. Substitutions will then be passed under the national law, so they do not always need these two elections, which have made it virtually impervious to change the constitution, which is, in fact, the big thing that has caused the nation to fail to do what they want, that is always the two elections between them. This is one of the jobs of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is now working on a change in the constitution, one of the points being considered there, and we Pirats set as a requirement for it to be in there, i.e. to change the directive so that the Constitution can be changed at any time, whenever the nation is willing to change the constitution, there is no need for elections. And there's a lot of other good stuff in this bill, but I can see that my time is running out, but I'll mention a few more things. I think in these pictures I've just mentioned some of the major things. I took together pictures of the flow algorithms of the different control vessels as it is now in Iceland and, on the other hand, as a bill of administration would. I'll just print on my Facebook page if it's not there any more so people can check it out. I think I'm just pretty comfortable with what's been said and that this bill shows that a new constitution contains all the work that both the council and the people had won until it was placed in a drawer of 2013. This bill allows for immediate continuation. The new constitution is ready for Congress and a government ready to take it out of the drawer, finish it at the General, and send it to you, the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u43	Mr. President. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir says, by permission of the president: The government wants to continue the full reexamination of the Constitution in a transpirary partnership with the country's arrival and, among other things, use the methods of public society. The committee will begin work at the start of a new council, and the government will emphasize the progress of social relations in the career of the work. The nominees appointed to be members of the General Assembly have now met nine times since the government began its reign at the beginning of December 2017. When they're still working and they're all good at it and they don't change the production of this bill about that job. I have to say that I am deeply pleased that we are discussing this bill and I am so happy that this bill has been submitted to the General because it works well together, i.e. The Chairman's Committee and then the conniving treatment of this bill. You see, we can and should help each other. The director is the nation. The country shall vote for a constitution, but the lawgiver, the Allied Congress of Iceland, must prepare the bill so that we follow the law. It is here, members of Congress, to win this bill for a constitution and finish the case. Here, the public and members of society have the option to submit their comments on the subject, to appear before committees, and to continue with the discussion of this document that we have already chosen to be the foundation of a new constitution, a new Community Convention. For the reason that we are here, I'm not really going to go down into the individual sections of the bill because, first of all, I have voted for the bill of the Council of Government, which I wished would be laid on the foundation of work, but also because we are at 1st. ... aboutthiscase. I may want to get more into my career and why we should now be finishing this, although we may certainly be told that we should have been long ago. Therefore, I would like to review the history of the republic of Iceland, the constitutions that we have been taught in history books that Kristján IX.. has handed us, which is a statue of the shipment directly in front of our board of directors. But there was no Kristján IX.. who has given us a measure of interest in us Icelanders, our interests, or our independence usually. That's Kristján IX.. When Iceland visited Iceland in 1874, it was sent to Iceland long later, or 1904, and was sent back in 1928. Thus, the statue in front of the Board of Directors will be considered a rather masterful history. That may be exactly what defines all of this, i.e. Work to negotiate a Community contract for the Icelandic nation, the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. The process, whether from 1874, 1944, or 2010, is being followed by a full reexamination of our constitution by the General Assembly. There are a number of narratives going on by who speaks. Our Constitution, which we have been using for the past few decades, was always considered to be preliminary. It seems that there is not much disagreement. From 1874•1942, 36 cases were submitted during the council for a change in the constitution. Four times, changes were achieved, including when the Republic of Iceland was founded. The Parliamentary Committee was to develop proposals for change in the constitution, but it was clearly stated that it was forbidden to make some changes other than those that directly led to the breakups of the European Union with Denmark and the Republic. The importance of the solidarity of the adjustment in 1944 was that it should be extended only to these specific aspects of the administration order in agreement. It had to be okay. I have a feeling that those who listen to this talk are familiar with that word, content, when it comes to a change in the constitution. In view of the time, the committee continued to prepare for other changes in the constitution. The decrees for the king and the regulations for the president were issued. To most extent, the role of the president was very similar to that of the former king, beginning with a complicated change. I guess that wasn't completely cool. Otherwise, the Constitution remained unchanged, but further changes were planned. A committee of 12 was appointed to counsel an older committee, and two years later a committee was still formed, with the first committee on fire. There was a little bit of a meeting. Over the years, a number of committees, with dozens of members, were identified, with no apparent success. Some changes have certainly been made, mainly with regard to the council itself, with regard to the voter when members of Congress felt that it was urgent and dislocated when the members of the Parliament felt it was urgent. In view of the 50th anniversary of the Republic, the change in the human rights phase was accepted, so it is often flimsier that it has been replaced by a dramatic change in the constitution so that this constitution is now unnecessary. This, these changes during the council and on the Human Rights section, seems to have been able to agree. But when it comes to basic control directives and the combined resources of our resources, our community seems to disappear, and so does reconciliation. It is small, and we are still left with this provisional plan of the King's dance, which in many respects is very out - of - date. The overall review of the Constitution to take place after the Republic's Constitution was set in motion at last by order of a administrative body of 25 persons from a variety of directions, was approved here at the General Assembly of 2010, with a government decree. Eventually, the Ches was a administrative committee and a governing body. An election to a administrative body to care for the work, the overall re-examination that the Council had approved, was so charged with, and the Supreme Court invalidated that vote. This is also because opposers believe that changes are a sign that all the work proposed by governance then at a total reexamination is somehow unremarkable. However, the same people do not believe that all the committees that have been working since 1874 that have been authorized here by the Generals are in some way unsupervised. It has just never occurred to anyone that Sigurður Líndal and all the jurists who have been here for decades had in some way failed to arrive at that work. However, opposers do not tire out in pointing out that the Council of Control, the 25 persons of extraordinary variety who worked continuously for four months on the change in the constitution, had less authority than the above committees. It is, of course, a totally different history. The General Assembly of the Icelanders chose this group. In four months, a new constitution was created. The new constitution was passed on to the nation in the U.S. District Court of October 20, 2012, where 73% of voters agreed that the proposals of the Government Council should be laid to the foundation. This is the perfect key, Mr. President. All this time, the nation's will has been ignored. But wait. When we discuss little political trust, I believe that this disrespect to national willingness will play a major role. It is not an option to pay national fees and not to comply with the results. I suggested to the last legislature that we complete the case by presenting this document that we in the United States had prepared and intended to submit to it, so that we could give the nation a new constitution in sovereignty. It would have been more reassuring to me than to say that they are giving the nation a marine research vessel for which the nation itself pays with their tax dollars and then withdraw money to the Oceanographic Institute when it comes to the observation of the ocean research ship. I would have found it more challenging for us to get the national constitution that the people chose for and ask for a basis on the general review. However, the government groups failed to agree with this suggestion because they do not agree on the matter. Perfect peace is missing. You see, it's with this reconciliation that I don't quite understand because when it comes to handling other bills here at the General Assembly, it's enough that there's more to it. I believe, Mr. President, at the General Assembly, we owe this nation implicitly that we do this work. This need not take an enormous amount of time. It's a long time before this work has to take two terms. Of course, we in the United States will continue to cooperate with the committee of prime ministers, who are involved in the process of making changes and calling upon themselves experts. But I will not lie on my team in a management and surveillance committee when it comes to working on this bill. I think if the nation can get something at this point, at the 10-year anniversary of the busiest revolution, it's about to have their own community contract. At the end, I'd like to throw away the rest of the speech I had written, just use it later, and read only the words of the exit to a new constitution that sounds like this: We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state with freedom, equality, democracy, and human rights to cornerstones. Governments shall work on the welfare of the country, promote their culture, and respect the diversity of life, land, and life. We want to promote peace, security, peace, and happiness among us and future generations. We resolve to work with other nations for peace and respect for the earth and for all mankind. In this light, we put ourselves in a new constitution, the highest law in the country to be respected by all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u44	A respectable president. Only more about the reconciliation than was made in the U.S. National Code of October 20, 2012. The only thing that can restore that peace is another national decree. This means that any reconciliation for change must be accepted for a change in the topic of governance, which should provide the basis for a new constitution, not a reconciliation to make changes in the constitution. They're supposed to change the constitution, that was the result of the vote. It must be if something is to be changed into the bill itself. I'm not necessarily satisfied with all the changes in the bill presented here, so it's just the situation as it was when the last case came out of the committee. It does not necessarily reflect my request because there are some, changes from the bill of administration as they have been performed in the General work since then. But the situation that it is now is simply as if it came up from the drawer. Of course, we will take a materialistic view of the change based on what they are from the government's bill. But I would like to review a few subjects that I discussed a few years ago when the Constitution was a lot in the discussion, before the 2016 elections, and recall what I discussed about them. By then, the new constitution had been much in the preceding discussion, and it is still. Some recommend a new constitution, while others want little or even no change. The discussion is natural. Change can be difficult and complicated, let alone a change in something as important as the constitution itself. I have heard some arguments in one way or another because the constitution should not be changed. The reasons range from the fact that change will lead to uncertainty in keeping the current constitution, both extremes. In most lands, records of government are being updated relatively regularly. The life span of constitutions in Western democracies is some 70,480 years. Iceland's Constitution is becoming 75 years of age, compared to 1944, or it's going to be 100 years next year, if the federal law is well said to be over the retirement age. Some say that she was well - versed on the first day, but society is changing, so society will inevitably change, perhaps in one piece, as some suggest, but changes and improvements in time will inevitably be necessary. In elections for the bill of the Council of Government, on October 20, 2012, 2/3 of the voters paid votes by laying the basis for a new constitution, not a changed constitution, but a new constitution. I have heard all kinds of complaints about that vote. The church question is published or did not know what it was about to vote, or do we have a definition or a complaint about votes? I often say that fun in terms of election participation that if the 40% consent threshold, as it was recently in Iceland's constitution, had been in the election that led to Iceland's sovereignty on December 1, 1918, that election would have fallen on its arrival, and Iceland would not have been fully elected that day. I think the debate over the new constitution and the argument against making it very unconvinced. In that situation, I start counting. So I wrote a small program that divides the text of the constitution and the bill of the administration body into sentences. Take it, for example. 10th par. The constitution: When the president takes the job, he takes an oath or a vow to the constitution. From this oath or name, two consistent originals should be made. Stores the Allied Parliament another, while the National Archives is that way. It will be in my program to these three phrases: The president takes an oath or pledge to the Constitution when he assumes the job. From this oath or name, two consistent originals should be made. Keep the General Assembly, other than the National Archives, that is. I then compare every sentence in the constitution and look through every sentence in the board's bill to the sentences that are similar to the ones that fit from that list which is either exactly the same or very similar. For example, the sentence in the example above: The President pays an oath or a vow to the constitution, when he receives his job, to the sentence of the new bill, to the new constitution: 'Forseti of Iceland sign an oath to the constitution when he accepts the job.' The text isn't exactly the same, but the point of the sentence is the same, so I make it comparable. Iceland's constitution has 203 sentences. On the other hand, the bill of the Government Council contains 378 sentences. So the new constitution is much longer than the current constitution, and the question I would like to answer is, How much of the current constitution is in the new constitution? At least 160 sentences from the Constitution are found in the bill of the Constitution. Then there are 43 sentences from the current constitution that will disappear. I have an excellent list of the excerpts that go away, which covers over a page and a half in fine print, but I'm thinking of not reading them all because it would be rather boring, since the phrases that go and are useless in that sense. Some of these sentences changed to the management board, to form 51 gr. of the Minister's vote, that they only have a vote if they're also members of the council. It's completely out of control on the bill. Ministers cannot sit as members of Congress at the same time as ministers and thus have no voting rights. Thus, some of the remaining articles have a parallel, perhaps a contrast, and in the bill of the Government Council, there are actually over 160 articles from the constitution that stay in the bill of the Council of Government, if you go out in such precision. But I decided to be moderate in this regard. New articles follow this count of 228. That's ten more than a calculations would make you think, but the reason is that some articles of the Management Board apply to more than one sentence of the constitution. The 228 sentences in the board's bill that do not match any phrases in the current constitution are left. The bill is somehow like this: The bill of the constitution is equal to the current constitution of minus 43 sentences, and then plus 228 new sentences where the phrases from the current constitution are exactly identical or slightly changed. In my opinion, the talk should be about the 43 missing sentences and ask us: Is it necessary for them to disappear, or is it necessary to keep them? And the 228 additional sentences. It is obvious that the current constitution is largely maintained in this, i.e. nearly 79% of the current constitution survives in the new constitution. Actually, it's just being added. True, word changes and explanations are much better. Additions are found in the Council of Control in almost all but 29 articles in which there are no changes. All other articles contain sentences which are added to the current constitution. The list of these articles is very long, and it's here on six and a half pages, no less or less. I'm not going to read that list either. It is found in this fine publication, and I may put it somewhere in a story or on the web so that people can look at the list themselves. The points, the sentences, and the sentences on the discussion are about to turn. There are also other articles, such as: a national rights contract is done on behalf of Iceland, instead of a president before. I could have grouped them together. Even if that is really a change, it is the same goal, then national rights have to be dealt with. It's just who makes them, but then they'd still increase the articles from the current constitution found in the bill of administration, but I didn't. Because there was a change in roles, it was a change that I decided not to do anything like what is in the current constitution. All the discussion that changing the constitution as it is now being made by the bill of the Government Council rolls something, creating a sense of law, is simply expressed in a simple word: Bull. I'm not going to scrape anything off it. It's just that way. The current constitution can be found in the bill of a management body either a word for word or in a slightly altered form to be clearer in all respects, clarifying the article. I look forward to having more talk and discussions about these articles, and why is it no longer necessary to have the article "Forseti of the Republic, " in the city of Reykjavík or around the country. Is that article needed in the constitution? I wouldn't think, but I'm ready to talk about it. I'm also willing to discuss whether the article 'Services to be added to the prisoners' income, should be in a new constitution or not. I think it's pretty obvious. There are certain rights in it. Of course, it is difficult to talk about one sentence, and this must be in the context of the whole article, but this is the list of it and comparison of the current constitution and the bill of the constitution which I find very important data in the discussion to address the criticism that has established the process of creating a new constitution and to actually address a certain fear, that it is impossible to resist. In this way, we must agree to change the bill of administration rather than to change the constitution. If we're always looking for a way to change the constitution, it's too much to do, and I don't want to be upset about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u45	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's heart was touched by a review that was very useful. I must assume that he did not specify my favorite principles in the current constitution. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator will see if he can explain my 30th chapter to me. Current constitutions and so goes: The President gives, either himself or by hiding it from other governments, an exception to the rules that have been followed so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u46	A respectable president. The 30th straggle. is one of the 43 sentences that goes blessedly, for the article is a little arbitrary, a specific monarchy, I would think. It is well considered why this article should be done in exactly this article or in the bill of the Council of Control. My personal opinion is rather simple, although it may well be a more complicated explanation: It violates the law. The fact that the President can do whatever he wants is not something I'm interested in controlling my life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for the answer, however, was not really due to my asking the senator if he could translate the terms for us at the Senate Hall and for those sitting at home and sitting on the bars, explaining the meaning of the law. Can the president decide that some law is not relevant? Is it possible for the president to decide that certain individuals may not have to conform to certain laws as he pleases? Can he decide that someone else does not have to comply with the law, but others do? Or just one set of laws? Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator, as long as I'm here, if he thinks when the President has to leave town that Presidential authorities have such authority, too. If so, such as President of Congress, President of Supreme Court and Prime Minister? Counts 'em out. A senator at the highest. The president of Generalis, Stigrim J. Sigfússon, has already chosen President Th. Jóhannesson, uses his own authority to decide that a law is not valid, and is able to do so in consultation with the president of the Supreme Court and Prime Minister? Can each seaman decide that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u48	A respectable president. I thought this was the interpretation or translation of the article, i.e. The monotonous girl. She'll be, like, a what? A senator pointed out that it is even more interesting if it is associated with 13. ... thatthe President will have a minister execute his authority. It is not enough that if the interpretation of the current constitution is like this, as many had wanted to say before the lawsuit was applied or refused to sign because the president was supposed to be powerless out of 13. par., if she means 30. g. Then the prime minister can have all the authority listed to 30 C.E. I think that this scene with what the president's authority is, in fact, what it is in the hands of a minister, without a president's intervention at any time, is one of the key reasons why we need to update all the ways and in my opinion the whole constitution, because it is exposed by that problem, this king's problem. No matter how symbolic it is, it still stands there. We have seen that the President takes the power written in the current constitution, and there is no one who can deny it. We don't have a law like that. and then it says that it's a violation of the Constitution made by the President. If President refused, e.g. to end a council when a prime minister made a statement at a council meeting, would it be a violation of the Constitution, or would it be just a president to use his power? [[The president calls.]] I don't know. Nobody knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u49	A respectable president. This article. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Leví Gunnarsson were perhaps, perhaps, allow me to say, an extremely disturbing example of a law that is both vague and difficult to understand and highly inexplicable. It does, however, involve the fundamental authority of those who take control of the land and who, in the hands of someone, can turn in a way that even leads to some kind of democracy. This article, I think, may be a fine example of the problem we face, which is especially the fact that various principles of the current constitution are vague and difficult to interpret, and have also led to the ability of lawyers to interpret laws of intelligentness and tact, which sometimes have led to the difficulty in presenting laws against humans. I'm not gonna have many words here in this chair. Hv. Councilmen, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, and Leví Gunnarsson have all handled the matter well, both the contents of this new constitution and the history of the case, so did Björn Leví a fine comparison between the current constitution and the proposals of the Constitution, and then successfully refuted the idea that it is sometimes heard that there is a very radical document, some kind of revolution that upsets the entire population if approved. As the Constitution looks at me, it's never over. A constitution is never over. It is not of nature; it is not of them; it is not like the weather, or the mountains, or the sea; it is the work of men. It is not an outside situation that we have nothing to say about. It is the outer circumstances of our lives, indeed. It lays the basis for our external circumstances, but we ourselves need to mold these external circumstances, and we do so together. We do this by making a covenant with one another about certain principles in our relationships, basic principles in our society, fundamental laws, end up with a constitution - this is one of the few times in which neighboring countries have a better word than we do about some phenomenon, they speak of basic laws, fundamental laws. And the Constitution is the foundation under everything, and if, as the Eysteinn monk says in Lilja, the foundation is properly found, it is successful, and so it is unattainable if the foundation is not good. So, she's a living document. This is, as many have noted, a social agreement. After a collapse, a unique opportunity was opened to this community covenant, working together to form a new community covenant. The work was held at national meetings that I believe were generally at peace with the community all that had given and done a very good job, and that the next phase of a government council elected, which was not elected by votes, since every man had his votes and every man, every stranger, could offer himself to the end, it could be said that half the nation volunteered for this work. Such interest. Despite the controversialness of the work and the Supreme Court's entitlement of this vote, the result was that it should be held at once that the Council chose those who were elected in those elections, so that they had, as it were, the year before. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir pointed out earlier, a full commission to work - that this administrative body was actually a paradox of the nation and, in many respects, a much better cross-section than we are here, with all due respect for us. Councilmen. They were people of all walks of life, people from all corners of the country, people with a very different background, and a very different view of everything. Nevertheless, these people were able to converse, and with a good job they were able to work hard to return that common document as a model. Then the council accepted the job, and here at the council, a very good work was done with the so - prepared document, and the people were allowed to vote about 2012. This whole process has brought attention to many countries, and it has been considered a model in many lands and, in fact, to some people in the meaning that we have completed it. It didn't. What is the need to change the constitution? Many ask. And why do we need to be changing this? Isn't this just fine just the way it is? Don't you think it's just the uncertainty that comes with this? Then I think that's to say that uncertainty has to do with the current constitution. You sometimes feel as if you watch Icelandic society over the decades, as if in the United States, you were spliced off your fingers so hard. The Icelandic government ship was frequently merely impregnated from day to day by major authority figures. And any changes made in the current constitution can actually be compared more to the organized continuation of these resources. These changes have primarily been made in a ballot ship when it has simply not been counterweighted to keep the ballast ship any longer as it was at one time. This has been followed by uncertainty. This new constitution is an effort to establish greater structure, greater legality, in Icelandic society. The union has faithfully participated in the office of the highest commission. The prime minister has been in charge of all classes of representatives and presidents of all classes in the General Assembly. The United States has always been for review of the Constitution, and the Consequences of the past under the leadership of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir took the initiative to initiate this process. It should then be noted that the foundation of the work on that committee is an overall review, as shown in a memo signed by the presidents. Of course, in this committee our representative will speak for our view of this matter, which is that the decision to respect the decision of national law should be respected since 2012. I, by permission of the President, would like to quote what the Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson, then a historian, now president of Iceland, wrote about this because I think he's very well aware of it, and I want to make his word my own. Guðni says, by permission of the president: In writing on the Republic Constitution, the basic fact that it was never intended to remain in the same picture is sometimes minimized by the basic fact that it was never intended to remain in the same picture for long periods of time. provisional media will thus become a model for future solutions. This may be determined by a political attitude. However, the history of the leader of the Republic Constitution clearly shows that there was a temporary compromise. This is especially true of the arrangement for the division of authority between those who say one thing but actually translate another. The Constitution should be clear, but this is not how the preliminary work of 1944 is to be made, for it has become an example to no one, no influence anywhere else in the world. In the leading part of the Republic Institute, members of the Generals rightly wanted to pursue the unity of the nation. They knew that if the political parties undertook a new constitution, they would not succeed. Hence, it was decided to establish an unregistered constitution temporarily and then, as soon as possible, reevaluate it. The republic established by the Icelanders forever and ever, but the Constitution was not, and it could still be seen that she had been composed in much of the Danish canoe, as President Jón said in his own day. So - with the Constitution in mind - that June 17, 1944, the Icelanders camped for one night on the Ting floor in an old Danish tent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u50	Mr. President. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir gave a speech at a democracy conference held at Berkeley University in California, where she spoke about the new constitution. The purpose of the conference was to review the process, the democratic process we've been in. I'd like to ask the senator if he heard this speech. I'm gonna read a little bit of it and I'm gonna ask him if he knows anything about how Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson and other presidents have expressed themselves about the constitution process. This is what Vigdís said, in the interpretation of the son of Illugi, the son of Jökulsson, Then, in 2008, the General took a significant step that would lead to the finally fulfillment of the dream of a new constitution. Then began the most comprehensive and democratic work of writing that history can tell, and of course has brought attention to the world around the world. The government was elected in a democratic way, so the voices of different Icelandic powers each received their own voice, and the new constitution was then accepted with one voice. In addition, a national agreement then showed that Icelandic voters wanted the new constitution to be adopted. Yet, that has not yet been done. On my behalf, the Icelandic nation has waited long enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u51	Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's questions. If I understood correctly, the first question was, Did I hear about that speechVigdís or did I get the impression on it? The answer is: Yes, I have. I can even add that I find it very interesting that two presidents of Iceland have so clearly expressed themselves on this subject. The second question, I think, was I aware of Ólafur Grímsson's position on this new constitution? That's why I don't. I remember - I don't prepare for this case by looking in the speeches and articles of Ólafur Grímsson's son, but I have to confess -- but I do recall to have heard some word from him that fell very in the other direction, let's say, but the comments of this beloved President, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, and so the Guðni Th. Son of Jóhannesson. Other than that, I don't trust to be here some special interpreter or spokesman for Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u52	Mr. President. More than six years have passed since a national vote agreed that a government bill would be submitted to a new constitution. The results of the vote have thus far failed to get the sound they deserve. This is so that the national sovereignty is with the nation and is its chairman. The role of the Generalis, in particular, is formal, with regard to the government of Iceland as a representative of democracy. The voters of the country choose to represent themselves in their behalf, in their behalf, and in their authority. It will be quite unfair for the Icelandic nation to live in 2019 C.E. to have the reality that its existing core agreement is written by Danish men in the last century. The new constitution contains regulations for the national compromise. Now, we have witnessed considerable political instability during the last year, and in two cases governments have exploded. I am convinced that the nation will prepare for this verbal rights to produce greater calmness and greater confidence in politics. When the people know that they can have more access to matters in their lives, I believe that the gap between councils and nations will be reduced. The President of the United States has expressed himself about the Constitution. At his assembly in 2017, he encouraged the General Assembly here in a talk chair to consider the regulations of the Constitution regarding the role and authority of the president. He told the General that in the current constitution, there were unscrupulous and disparagingly regulations concerning his role as President of Iceland. He concluded with the words: ▪ In the present situation, there will be no pleasure I wish for this beautiful success inside this council, trusting it and believing that the execution and the council all know how much is involved now, when this important matter is restored to the National Assembly Hall of Iceland. Now it's the case in the hands of the government. It's going to have a chance to do what's right. Now, all of us here have precious opportunities to stand with our people, showing them the respect they deserve and the trust they owe. Perhaps it will be trust and respect for the Lord's Evening Meal will follow. Who knows? It would mark a new beginning for us as a nation to be reunited with by the values we have agreed on. Last year, we celebrated our 100 - year - old sovereignty anniversary, and now, in 2019, we celebrate our 75 - year independence as a nation. Therefore, it would be a healthy step toward greater independence, and it would be a beautiful gift to us, all of us, to welcome them with the new Constitution of the Republic of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u53	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of support to buy at the first apartment, with subsequent changes, No. 111/2016. This is primarily the evacuation of conditions for the use of special savings to buy at the first apartment. The messengers are the Þorsteinn's son of Víglundsson, who stands, and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Hanna the son of Katrín the Friðriksson of Fridrik, the Helgi of Horfen the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, the Sæland-Gaand, and Valdimarsson-dídímsson, and the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir. Few things are more important than helping people and individuals to get a roof over their heads, whether for their own housing or rent. There will be no debate, however, that the more important these two things are to help people whom they choose to have housing. Looking at individuals' positions, especially those of income, in the old years, we can see how much more important it is for people who have come to have their own housing as compared to those who are still in a rented market in old age, where they often spend less income and older years together. Therefore, in this context, we present this case in which, in short measure, the individual is allowed to use the part of the special property savings taken up as a fresh source of collective agreements that now ran out at the last year's special property, i.e. the so-called special property. Three percent pension fees, which is part of commitment, 15.5%. This may involve the variation in current resources and the proposed options to be extended so that they also reach pension. This is part of commitment insurance. Therefore, it is not dependent on the financial status of the individual whether this special property is new or not; nor can the individual choose that this 3.5% of the 15.5% of the obligation will fit into the special budget. The reason we want to buy our first resources, or to make use of special property savings, is to include these items, just as earners of a job market, is far less likely to take advantage of special property savings, as an additional part of their pay than those who earn more money. Thus, existing resources are much more likely to extend to the intermediate group, from a higher paying group than to those at the lowest remuneration. Yet, we face the challenge of entering the real estate market in the most difficult way to get a roof over our heads, the most difficult thing to do. We feel that this strategy could really help them. We see the trend that has taken place in recent years, since the collapse of the economy, that the average age of young people who are still living at home has increased dramatically. In fact, we stand out as different from other northern countries. A much higher proportion, two times higher proportion, of people between 20 and 29 years of age still living in parenthouses in Iceland compared to other North countries. This is a problem that cannot be overlooked. So we suggest that this way be begun, that this additional special property must be used, so to speak, a part of commitment, 3.5%, into this also, which is excluded by existing legislation. It should be noted in this context that this space in the public labour market has not yet been possible, so I know. The government's citizens pay 15.5% or pay 15.5% of their pay in a pension fund, but it has not yet been opened to the possibility that a share of the benefits will be used. There is a contract between parties, and I expect only that flexibility will also be recorded in the public labour market, reaching the entire labour market. Other factors are suggested. This provision is further enlarged, so it is not only for the purchase of the first apartment but also for the purpose that it did not belong to the owner for three years and not to the complete use of this option before. This is because we still have a very large group of people who lost their home in the crash, who have been rented since, who have not had financial access to remarry, but who are not available to use current special resources. I think it's a great deal of justice for that group to have this also and that the options are generally open to people who are entering the real estate market, whether for the first time or after three years or longer, without their own housing. As a result, it may be useful to those who, once again, are often in a very difficult situation and a low income group to restore their status in a real estate market. Third, several technical changes and further implementations of the current law are proposed that I am not going to go into any further detail. I think this process is, and the experience has shown that the special delivery process worked very well for the partners it has been able to new, whether for payment on real estate loans, as it was permitted for the first time, or to lay down or pay payment on its first purchase. However, as earlier said, real - estate markets have not been the most effective groups, the worst of which is the real estate market. Thus, it has often been wondered how far it is justified to use pension savings as this for real estate and how far government funds can go for the tax of the same pension savings, for it is, of course, the financial cost or the financial support of the state's funds to indulge in the taxpay, which makes this savings so strong for the individual. This means less tax returns to government funds when it comes to paying off pensions during retirement years. But, of course, it is easy to say that the older citizen, who is at all worst, is, as I mentioned earlier, the group who is still living in a rented house and therefore needs more support, such as. Social security and other housing measures, such as housing improvements, are to be maintained. It may well be said, then, that in the end, the lost income is not the result of a trust fund. Certainly, less tax pay on pre-traumatic costs, but at the lower cost or less, on the basis of these efforts, they manage to make their own housing and hopefully sit in a debt or debtless housing in later years. It significantly improves the status of the group and also reduces the expected need of the same group for public support, e.g. in the form of housing improvements. That is why I think it is quite possible in this simple, costly way that the state supports in this way a young person's living arrangements. Second, it is quite clear that in the current pension system, as has quite some in the discussion in the past few weeks, there has been a major increase in the pay paid by special savings for young people starting jobs in the labour market. We have 15.5% of mandatory insurance and up to 6% additional fees in the special delivery system. It affects young people at a time when they have the lowest income in their life span but the greatest demand in their life. People are building houses, starting a family, and starting their lives. Of course, we are at the highlight of the mid - life income process, and from middle age, we lose much weight when we have children up, people are in position to reduce their housing, etc. So here is an excellent tool to help individuals reassign their income in this way, i.e. to take advantage of this special property and his taxation right away for housing, and it should not be to blame, even if in later years the pension is less likely to be paid. It is estimated that a young person will start working in a labour market today, which will use all the resources available for the pension money, due insurance plus special property, will have a well over 100% of his average pay on pension, i.e. Relative to 56% as e.g. 12% of the fee was thought to be originally. That's the truth about our pension system. It is becoming mature with the changes it has been made and can be said to claim that the pay is even too high, especially for young people, and this is a good tool to help people with their first steps in a real estate market and at the same time a lighter amount of pension paid by people while they are earning most of their money. I hope this strategy can have extensive support at the council. It rhymes quite well with the housing proposals made by the intensive group of governments of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir and is also very familiar with the ideas presented by the previous government, which are somewhat similar to those that have now been seen again and should, therefore, fit with the emphasis found there, which is primarily to help young people to have a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u54	A respectable president. I was putting together a very similar bill when I received a request for this very thing. I welcomed it. That's what I saved a little work, and I'm very happy with it. Since then, I've scratched my head a little and looked at how this whole system works and in greater context. You're right. A carrier points to, in fact, the current pension system expects people to own property. It's just the income you get when you go to a pension, if the person isn't in debt, the pension money won't work at all. This is certainly a suggestion to help get there. It is quite normal that real estate is part of the pension system as such. In fact, I don't see any difference in putting it in the special possession of pensions or in the real estate because both are part of the pension system after all. I wanted to think of some ideas that may have developed since the bill was submitted and could help the committee work on this bill. I got one, for example. A reminder that if there were more than two people who bought an apartment, they would not have such a 50-50 share as expected in the law, they have no right to get this option. If three buy the apartment, each with a third rate, then just: No, unfortunately. You can't use this. Perhaps a tip - the transporter's opinion of such an idea - of making room for the very purpose of reaching those who are so refreshing to them, and then a hint to the committee thereafter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u55	Mr. President. That's an interesting question. Senator. I don't think in general the state should have anything to write about how individuals use it or how people choose to live or have real estate together. Of course, it is thought of as a means of buying property, where it is expected that the person owns a legal home and lives. If four friends choose to own an apartment together, 25%, each, they should, of course, be able to make new options for such purchases. Buying real estate together, getting rid of all the possible problems that might arise in such cases, but nothing that the State should interfere with, or with a wide variety of family patterns, and changing today's family patterns may be all the same. It's just a matter of time before the committee even looked at it. I think it's been changed so that the current law has a share of 30%, if I remember correctly. But I'm sure there's more flexibility in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u56	Mr. President. This is just an attempt to reach out to those with less income. The figures in this process show that those with a higher income can use better, which is not quite fit. We want to make some tools that everyone can use, and there may also be a measure - because there is such a 10-year period that is spoken of there - that if people are making partial uses, e.g. 25% of the apartment, would it be with a 40-year period for a 25% share, or is it 10 too for 100% property? If you had 100% in your apartment and you took advantage of it to 10 years, could you take it to 40 if you only had 25%? This is the kind of amount of space, if it can help to increase the ownership department in some way or something like that. I was trying to get myself involved in the fact that people can actually expand their share in an apartment until they finally make up their debt - free apartment when the person is retired. Because that's the natural goal if the pension system the way it is today is going to work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u57	President. I had not considered this much, nor had I any particular consideration of whether there is a decrease, then on the maximum financial floors, from the divided places as these. But of course: Of course, if four people buy an apartment together, each one capable of new peaks, their ownership is quite rapid. I don't think there would be a need to extend time to that context. I think it would be interesting to check it out on the council committee. I hadn't asked for any special Senate committee to do this, but I assumed it would be a financial and business committee, since it is now such a tax-related matter. It would be interesting to consider whether it would be possible to increase flexibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u58	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 125/199, on the issues of the elderly, and on the proposal presented here by the elderly. The movers and I are the noncommitarians. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason as well. Three members of Parliament, a group of members of the people, the Central Party, and the Archipelago. The aim of changing laws on the subjects of the elderly is to ensure that the fund of older ones is devoted to the construction of services centres and day - to - day drafts and institutions for the elderly and to address the costs of the needed changes and improvements in housing used for service to the elderly, as laid down in the law. If the bill of law falls down the provisional regulations for the President's legislation, as it says, by permission of the bill, the funds from the fund will be taken out of the budget of nurses. In other words, the main cost of operating is the one. The bill draws attention to the projecting of a major campaign in the construction of nursing homes, as the health minister called it in a media launch in April 2018, and to be implemented in 2019 electron2023, it will cost nearly 9 billion dollars. It does not return the financial resources it has taken into a business since collapse, which is between 2009 and 2018, about 10.8 billion dollars. at the price of 2018. At that time, the cost of the big enterprise is the same as the fund is intended to pay for the bills and payments of older loans in the year 2019-2023, which are 8.8 billion dollars. The amount of funds the fund has for new founding projects in the current year - and the bill is submitted to 2018, so this sentence is 28.5% of its income. Seems natural that the funds are made possible rather than just attacking them. Government information on this subject can be considered misleading in view of the fact that suspected plans for the construction of nursing homes are presented as a new government project, while more than half of the elderly'budget is used to pay the cost of operating. Since public taxpayers and taxpayers at the elderly's management fund are not exactly the same group, it can be said that this reversal of roles involves a way of government that is not to be met by law on the fund. Thus, while the law allows older ones to be free of the rules for the building of institutions for the elderly, the elderly are reserved for the taxpayers of 69 years of age. According to one report, 1999 was the year when the Agency funds for the elderly were established by law. It also explains how he is financed, with a nose tax from all the taxpayers in the age range 16◯69, etc. There are laws on the elderly's therapy fund in III. section on the issues of the elderly. There's a 9th. list up the fund's projects, including to promote the development of aging services throughout the country. In the 3rd. The statute is given to the projects of the fund, and if I have to run over it, the money will be devoted to the construction of services centres and day selections and institutions for the elderly, in order to meet the costs of the needed changes and improvements in housing used for the elderly, in maintenance of day - to - day living and living worlds, and in other projects that contribute to the building of aging services. In 2010, temporary VIIs proposed to be dismissed were accepted into the Law and were first valid for the 2011 budget. The law has been valid for one year, and it has been renewed in budgets each year since. The government's budget is planned to renew it for the next five years. The provision of this provision involves the protection of funds from the elderly in order to cover the cost of nursing care for the elderly. The average number of elderly, 67.5%, up to 14,000 people, has increased by the age of 67 years and above, on average, by about 1,720. The elderly are expected to increase a great deal over the next 40 years, according to local Habitat assessment. The Habitat's prophecy allows more than double the elderly at that time and will be at the end of the period of some 90,000 people. At that time, the majority of Iceland's annual years will become elderly, and the number of elderly ones will be reduced on the basis of the modern - day population. As the elderly grow, the financial needs of the fund are expected to grow steadily. In the coming years and decades, the number of elderly ones will increase more than the increase in taxpayers who pay the fee. So my return to the work is very detailed in how the funds are spent. Of course, it may take time to ask if the elderly will not gradually reduce the need for housing for the elderly and also the other, whether a view of suitable housing may not change, so that the elderly will make more room for themselves in the future, or that other and less expensive measures might arise. To answer that your health is improving, your average age increases and the need for service in the older age group is likely to decline or disappear. The need for support in the next 40 years will only be determined by available data but will decrease thereafter. This article will give a detailed discussion of the material I mentioned, some of the financial features of the fund. So do I, too, want to be in the shortest interest, since it is now late in the day, that there is detailed, detailed information on the subject of the bill. The fund's cost is shown, another stock costs, and a reimbursement as well as the cost of a so - called lease. The stock costs for new projects of the total fund and special nursing funds are shown. The figures set out in the detailed bill report show that the cost of temporary spending is fixed from 2018 onward. The maintenance of real estate is also paid by that team over the period of the budget of the government of 2019◯23. So about 4.5 billion dollars. of the elderly's fund for business. Here may be where the core is, and why the bill is submitted, that this money will be used in ways other than business management, that will be new to build new homes, to stick to, and to reciprocate the existing ones. Similarly, a report suggests that money from older loans is very taxing for the fund, reaching 855 million. K. Each year for 40 years, but that is the result of loans made back then. The figures provided in the bill's report also show that the proportion of new projects, both innovation and reform, is less than 30% of the budget's budget in 2018. The figure is 28.5%, and it will not be seen to rise to 45% in the next few years according to government plans. It further emphasizes the need to remove this provision in order to ensure that funds will be used to build and maintain new homes and to restore existing ones but will not be used in business. The purpose of the building of new nursing homes and other such institutions for the elderly was set up for the elderly. Mr. President. I've been on it as everyone's shortest subject for the bill. Its substance is that a preliminary arrangement for the use of part of the fund for management will fall away and that the fund will be employed according to its original purpose and goals. That's what this is about. If the bill is legal, it will make a great deal of improvement in the fund's status from then on. The money that now goes to business will then come to the legal office of his projects, as it was founded. The annual body volume for building households for the elderly would increase by 2/3, 67%, from the present level of 1.4 billion dollars. in about 2.3 billion p.m. This is equivalent to 30 nurses each year. I also stress to bear in mind that the fund has not yet been replaced by the budget that has run in recent years, as I traced it, for the first time since 2011 because of the provisional programme VII. A major campaign in the financial program for the next five years does not compromise that fact. Mr. President. I hope this case is well supported by the High Council. Here is a great deal of interest in the elderly, and only in time can it be said. The nurses'topic for nursing is urgent and urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u59	V.E.G. President. I'd like to express my joy here with a contribution bill as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson was presenting, a bill for a legal adjustment in the affairs of the elderly. He stated that a new year after that law, a provisional arrangement, was given. This law has been replaced in the way funds have been made available for management costs but at the same time. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isoffason went over the law's purpose to work on construction of services centres and residences for elderly people in Iceland. It's time for a bill like this, like this, to be approved. It also brings to mind the need to ensure these important institutions that our fine older ones live in and come to a day's work. It also makes you think about what it means to be cared for by this group of people. A man may think that this age group 65 years of age or older - I may be in another situation I'm going to tell you later - but you need to work on it by all means that older citizens, whether this group lives in a nursing home or in a nursing home, receive a healthy and satisfying diet. Motion for this group and, of course, other feelings need to be considered. We know this, and a carrier went over it earlier that the Icelanders are getting older, and our health is also improving, so we live longer. Surely, it is time for a plan on how to look out for this group so that he will step up and feel good in his later years. I have, for example. hearing, which I don't know is true, that food offered to senior citizens is not as good as it's chosen. When it is true, it grieves me, but I know that by the surgeon's office, there was to be a specific review of material that would guide the cooking and the evaluation of senior citizens. How important it is that such evidence is new and applied! By feeling well and by exercising, all of us know that such activities are important. I'd like to talk to you about this conversation, because I'm starting to get into this, telling you about a really big Icelandic research. Senators may have heard of, but it is the research of Guðlaugsson Gudla's son and, actually, his work in some rural communities in Iceland, a remarkable one. In cooperation with a large number of rural partners who are thinking further, it has been decided to implement a particular intervention consisting of six months of tolerance and support training that 65 years of age and older can receive. This is an education involving nutrition and health-related factors. There are also various measures in the health of this age group. We know that if people have metabolic error, they carry an increased risk of cardiovascular events and diabetes mellitus. The assays Janus and his colleagues have been involved in measuring metabolic errors considered related to abdominal fat, increasing waist size, high blood triglycerides, low HDL cholesterol, high blood pressure measurements, elevated blood glucose levels, etc. The results of this study are of course excellent results, that despite age, there was improvement in nutrition and health of these people, increased muscle mass, decreased fat mass, and improvement in motor and performance performance. Of course, how wonderful it is to know that this fine intervention has had such fine results for these people! Of course, it would be wishful, and you hope that when a health minister offers a health - care bill, that there will be such an intervention. I feel that this discussion has something to do with the improvement of this bill and especially the construction of a house. Then there is the need to take care of those who live in their home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u60	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking an executive for putting in this bill that I'm taking along with him, along with nine other o'clock. Councilmen. Also, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this very important matter involving a nursing home for the elderly. This bill is about a change in law No. 125/1999, in regard to the affairs of the elderly, and in short, it is about disposing of regulations for temporary use. It's the law's standard, and there's a law of value in Article 2. The bill. The elderly's fund operates on the basis of law on the affairs of the elderly. The sea is funded by a special amount of taxpaying on all those between 16 and 170 years of age under the law on income taxes and 10 p.m. the law on the affairs of the elderly so-called price in the management fund of the elderly. The sea is designed to contribute to the development and development of aging services throughout the country and to provide resources for the construction of institutions for elderly, service centres, and day - care, the costs of needed changes in such facilities, the maintenance of day - to - day living and nursing homes, as well as other projects that contribute to the building of aging services. Details are given on the role of the fund in the Regulation on the Administration Fund of the Elderly, No. 468/2014. The elderly's board of directors cares for the management of the fund. The Committee makes a yearly proposal to the minister for collection of funds and shall place applications in priorities according to local need. Mr. President. This is where I have studied the role, income, and construction of this fund, which is a fund of the elderly. It is clear what his role is and what his role should be. He has a clear income, which is especially paid by every taxpayer in the country. Of course, this arrangement is designed for taxpayers to see and to know which of their tax dollars they produce, for the construction of nurses for the elderly. But what is that? In fact, for many years this provision has been extended every year since 2010, and since then, the amount of income from the fund has been used in something completely different. This is the point, Mr. President. All this time, the clear purpose and clear role of the fund under law have been set aside, and money has been used for everything other than its original purpose, you see, in the management of nurses. In our warm language, this delusion is the best thing to do. The taxpayers are deceived by launching provisional regulations into the law and allowing a large portion of this capital to be placed in everything else but the original purpose of this fee and the name of the fund indicates, the elderly's contribution fund. Mr. President. In the beginning, creditors have likely swallowed this new fee with the assurance that the money will go into this good and important matter, while building a nursing home for the elderly. Thus, over half of the funds have run into business in recent years, and for many years, these funds are well considered to be well over 11 billion. So it was noteworthy in the first spring when a minister introduced a major campaign in the development of nursing homes, a huge campaign as it was called, and assumes that the project will be assigned to 9 billion in the next four years. This amount is not even enough to bring up the funds that have been funded from a business crash. Such conduct is not a credit to governments and is to be canceled. There, Mr. President, it is not enough to make a new promise that it is now time to provide special funds for this same purpose. The prospect of macrosis in the building of nursing homes is a source of great relief, for of course, the first thing to do is to give the elderly a proper and original function. Mr. President. The bill we are now discussing is just about to cancel the provisional regulations that allow governments to provide funds for anything beyond their original role. In addition to this, it is of course very important that the number of nurses and residents in that group be greatly increased. There is nothing new, it has been anticipated for a very long time, that the elderly are growing, and that there will be a more predictable increase. Today, an average of 1,700 each year increase in numbers, and some need such provisions, as offered in nursing homes and nursing homes. More important, the number of these rooms needs to be increased quickly because a number of elderly ones are now in medical institutions despite more readily living in nursing homes or other homes. This is the worst of matters, not only for the elderly but also for the hospital, to be wronged and not to the right institution, but also for the space set aside. Not to be overlooked is the fact that it is not good for the elderly to be saved in a wrong institution and an institution other than his own. We need to do much better with the older citizens of this country. They got us to where we are today, the society of today, and they owe it to us. For these very important reasons, I sincerely hope that this bill will receive objective and quick treatment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-23-56.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion for increasing it and deepening it. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir's daughter for linking the subject of this bill with a number of factors that concern the well - being, benefit, and health of the elderly. It is most precious and important to discuss this matter in the light of reason. A senator made such a point in his speech. I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for putting the whole matter in its own proper and clear light. Mr. President. At the end of this discussion, I'd like to suggest that the bill go along. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
