ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u1	Borist has a letter from the 10th. Smoke. So, Þorsteinn, Sæmundsson, says that he will soon be absent in public affairs. Today, then, at General 1st, a deputy of the Central Party Arts of the District, Valgerður Sveinsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u2	The U.S. Sveinsdóttir's letter has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her place in the Council before and has to sign her vows to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u3	The Valgerður of Sveinsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u4	Last night's meeting has been called again. In connection with this, the president wants to inform us that he has invited members of the council to meet him during lunchtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u5	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and child - care ministers, marine emissary and agricultural ministers, and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u6	Mr. President. Now people's difficult circumstances at a housing market have been prominent in the discussion, especially in the case of collective agreements. In fact, the government has made some positive housing proposals, and I think it's the right thing to do, as the main convergence of our cohesion since the fall. True, for the first buyers, there is no compensation, and I eagerly wait for them. The construction industry is lower here than in our neighboring countries, and growth is much higher. It is a poisonous mixture that obviously leads to a much higher price of construction than would have to be. This has led to a much slower improvement in our neighboring countries in Iceland and, in some cases, a direct decrease in quality. With increased innovations and adjustments to building rules, we could certainly increase production. What advice is highest? For example, when it comes to meeting the demands of the labor movement, employment, and especially the public in the country for lower growth and cover insurance, do financial ministers support themselves? The union has been talking about a solution that involves the recording of Euro, which would reduce the financial cost. That's what you did. As a matter of fact, a secretary of finance over ten years ago has changed his mind, and I respect it. I'm gonna ask him, "Do you think he's the best?" Secretary of finance that growth can become as low as it is in other parts of the North countries, and does he see any possibility of getting rid of insurance with an Icelandic dollar?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u7	A respectable president. Here is an important topic, which is the housing market in Iceland and ways to lower the threshold into the housing market. I agree with what. A senator may be able to do things to reduce the cost of new buildings, as we have actually been doing by altering a building order in the realm of the Environment Ministry, or was short - term, but we have also been doing other things, such as. Cutting down tolls and purchases, which have affected construction costs. Plunger charge has been dropped by half for the first buyers, and we can continue this way. This has made a difference. It is not possible to take up a discussion about house prices in Iceland without pointing out how much of the total construction cost of the new construction price is. There is a big change from what used to be, when people were even assigned land free of cost, without paying for it. But now it's become an independent income farm with the rural communities, and, of course, it's a big problem when at the same time, we see a lack of money rising, as we know it. Here in Reykjavík, e.g. spoke of the rights to build a single apartment can be bought and sold in a distance of 6 to 888, even 10 million. Dec., just the right to build. It shows what kind of conditions have come into existence. The numbers have dropped very much. Never in history have we had less experience on the mortgage than we have today. In recent years the result is a good result of public financial success. The question is: Can growth be lower in Iceland than in other countries? Yes, I can give you an example. If there were a lot of inflation and high economic growth in countries other than no inflation and recession in Iceland, I can promise you why. A senator says there's a lower interest here. However, when there is a high economic growth in Iceland and no EU Member States, there is any chance that growth will be higher in Iceland than there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u8	Mr. President. This is where the biggest city in the world spends. Ministers most of their time in talking about things that have been done well; changes in construction regulations; actually, they could do much more there; tolling, taxing, and stamping. All of this is a good step. Of course, people are limited resources, and they are not up for discussion in this room, but I'm asking if the highest. A minister sees that we will soon see as low interest here as anywhere else in the North countries. True, real - life growth is at the minimum, but it is three times higher than that of our neighboring countries. They work on the construction costs as well as on the person for 20, 25, 40 years later. It is a competitive situation that we cannot offer to the public. I reiterate the question with the insurance policy, Mr. President, because the third board is now working on decommissioning insurance in ten years and nothing has happened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u9	A respectable president. I believe it's at least When asked, " Can't we get the growth of another country? ' There must be some basis for this. We are not growing the same as in countries where there is no economic growth. If we went to Spain and saw the unemployment there, don't talk about young people, do we want the interest there? There is no request for growth from economic systems that are entirely different from Iceland. But if you're asking if interest in Iceland can approach what they're elsewhere, I think the answer to that is simply: Yes, it's totally in our hands to create the conditions for a growth decrease we're calling for. The public has been doing so. These farms have been doing so, and the Council's Governing Body has contributed by applying the tools he has. The question, though, is whether the labour market is ready to come into contact with other people who here can have a bearing on success and the objective of the whole nation. [[The president calls.]] That's the question, because no one of these agents can make it unsatisfactory by the others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u10	A respectable president. Allegers'manager said of the lack of legal rights, and the Commission concluded that this was not in accordance with law. As a result of poor housing laws, the Bureau of Insurance and the Ministry has claimed that it is so difficult to calculate this. However, insurance agencies will be consulted at foreign institutions for the details of the situation and payments. It's her duty. It should not be able to pay out 18,000, 80,000, below 200,000 to about 1,000 persons under law until this case has been investigated. But when you're about to start paying it back, it's so complicated. If a person breaks a law against the bank, the state, can he say, "Hey, I'm not paying you for the next 18 months or so because it's so complicated for me to figure this out? Is that possible? No. So I ask a minister, "Why can you put this up against sick people? These are the weakest individuals, people who have nothing wrong but are treated as criminals just for getting sick or injured. There must be a minimum requirement for a minister to come up here and answer why you're not paying for it yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this inquiry, initially saying that an insurance agency has established a plan on how these adjustments will be applied in the future. It is expected that we will need to contact the Congregations Department of Insurance in countries where individuals in this area have lived. I assume that the U.S.A. will try to win it as fast as possible. Then the question is, Why have the refund not already been asked? There have been discussions between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economics and the Department of Social Affairs and the World Commission. The Department of Social Affairs has been given the business of both the budget and the Ministry of finance, the importance of any change in budget development, the fact that there is room within the Ministry's budget or the framework of an insurance agency in the current budget. We have worked very closely with an insurance agency and, in fact, we have also informed the World Health Committee, where there is trouble. A senator is on his seat, in a regular manner of handling these matters. Now they're trying to get a picture of the amount of money needed for correction in the current year, next year, etc. Of course, it is not until we are able to handle some of these matters, and we need to collect these information. Then we need to raise our financial resources or make sure that they are contained within the budget that the Ministry has. It's just the box we've been building around funding and executives and how it works. No one is saying that this work will not be done. Rather, we need to do it properly, both in the matter of correction and in the same way as obtaining the means to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, but the secretary of finance has already said that they should pay for it, that people have this right, and that they should just pay it. There's no need for sources. We're talking about people who should be with 200,000 bucks. paid for, but maybe it has 18,000, 20,000, 80,000. Why don't you pay for it right away today? These people have been cheated for ten years, and they owe a lot of money, so there's no risk of paying now. They're starving, they're suffering from malnutrition, depression, anxiety. What else must be done? What are we waiting for? These are people who are the worst in society, and I can't understand why you don't start paying them now. That's not a huge amount, that's a 200,000. You want to survive a 200,000-K.? Would you like to say, "Hey, we can't pay you $200,000." You'll be survivors of 18,000 bucks.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u13	The president reminds us that members of Congress are required to present their case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u14	A respectable president. It is true that when the government has a legal obligation to pay something, it should be done. No one doubts that obligation. However, that is what needs to be paid and that is what we have been working for. It also needs to know the exact amount of money to be paid to each of these individuals in order to know the total amount. That work's going on. The work of an insurance agency has been able to tell us in what way the work will be done. You're right. A senator witnesses, if it is a duty on the State to pay something that doesn't change, it won't go away. Therefore, it has been told exactly how this will be done, how it will grow back to time, etc. However, there is still a need to obtain money, and to do so, we need to know what the amount is. We're trying to win this thing as fast as we possibly can, and we've got to deal with the sister's office. We want to pay it as fast as possible, we want to be able to take care of it as fast as possible and put it in a natural direction. That's where we're at. A senator wholeheartedly agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u15	Mr. President. As noted, marine and agricultural ministers have introduced a bill allowing the import of fresh meat, eggs, and products made from unbridled milk from September 1. The bill is presented following the findings of the EFTA Court. Iceland's community has issued a statement where prime ministers are severely criticized. If the bill succeeds, the import restrictions on raw meat will fall. According to the local community, the interests of agriculture are sacrificed to a whole - population dealer who wants to import large quantities of foreign food. It is also a matter of public health, and some politicians, such as independence, restoration, and the United States, have minimized that statement and the interests of agriculture. In 2009, we adopt European Union food laws with additional regulations on freezing duty. Of course, this is important to us, especially our interests and exports of fish products, but it turns out that the induction is wrong and it ends with EFTA Judge 2017. There's a court order, and then it's a court order, and we're all on the job. I'm thinking that over the years before 2007, we could have done better in this interest watch and should have made better deals. The implementation of the EEA Convention is carried out within the European Commission and consists of ambassadors from the EFTA countries and representatives from the European Union's State Department of State, Mogherini. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: has the highest. A minister will discuss this with the European State Secretary of State, using political measures to achieve a solution within the EU joint committee? Has this been the case with the EEA joint committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In general, this is what we can say: We in Iceland and the Icelandic government have, and we will try to maintain our special status when it comes to animal diseases and so on. There is good reason, not just for the Icelanders, but for everyone, to look particularly at a new threat that we have not seen before and that is caused by all allergies, resistance, and such. They often talk about it in conjunction with antibiotics. We are blessed that some Icelandic farmers have made a decision, long ago, not to go as many countries we compare with when it comes to the production of agricultural products. Then I'm referring to the fact that we use a lot less antibacterial than e.g. countries in Europe Of course, we'll draw attention to this in all our interests. But I don't think it's just going to turn to governments. I think it's important that both producers and commerce keep the right information to the public, customers and consumers. Just for example, quality on a meat is very different. The same can be said of vegetables. It's, for example. Because I choose Icelandic meat and Icelandic vegetables, I know where it comes from and I know it very well. Still, I'm a good example of having a meal that's not hilarious, because I do it a lot on my travels. About what I've done in this case, I've taken it up with Mogherini and had a phone meeting, you couldn't get it any other way. However, the answers were very clear as to what was involved. A senator referred to him. Judgment is in order. Hv. A senator may be right in saying that people should have started thinking about the matter sooner than that, but we are talking about much earlier, more than ten years ago. [[The president calls.]] We need to work out the situation today, and it is very simple: Judgment has fallen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister and agrees with what he considered the importance of protecting our agricultural products. It is true that in this way legal matters are fully experienced, but I believe that in political terms we have not fully tested whether we will reach any conclusion. I'm aware that this case as such has not happened to the EEA joint committee. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Ministers have a legal sentence, but it is also important that all political pressures be tried. Throughout history, we have had good results. We made good progress in the government's territory debate with the British with political heavyweights. So I think it's important that we try this and take the case for the joint committee to see if political landing is not possible. [[The president calls.]] We have an extremely special situation that is very important to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u18	A respectable president. I can totally agree with what. A senator when he speaks of the importance of keeping what is good in Iceland. On the other hand, there is a fall of judgment. They may say, " It's just bad for us if there's a judgment like this. ' But normally it's good for us when we're in Iceland for our own good, it's totally our interest in international law. Although we can go through the cod wars and how we use ourselves there, we are truly applying ourselves to these and to various other matters, and in the end it is for a 350,000 people to have some guidelines for which those who play accordingly can reach and get conclusions. The situation in this matter is simply because I think it's right to do this on the part of the government and that we stress that we go on the offensive, not just sit around and defend ourselves. I think that this is a large, possibly large, part of the Icelandic public and the tourists coming here are aware of what kind of product we have to offer. [[The president calls.]] My experience is that once people know these matters, they choose Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u19	Mr. President. The strikes begin tomorrow, so let's think about how it works. Secretary of finance has held a vote in recent years. A discussion on the work performed by a healthcare professional stated at the highest level. Secretary of finance, by permission of the President: 10 years of adjustment cannot be made back in time. Not everyone can always get correction to some other reference group. A year later, 2016, the secretary of finance then suggested that the reference year of his own salary be 2006, i.e. ten years back. So ten years could be corrected, not by others, but from time to time. Today, the secretary of finance insists that pay increases in the head of the state companies are retracted, and that is good, but less than a year ago he voted at the General for Porta's proposal to withdraw the raises of Congress and Ministers to follow general pay development, in order to follow the public from 2013, as employees who are now going to a strike have to follow. I found a description of this kind of behavior in a dictionary on the Founding of the Year Magnússson in Icelandic studies. It's like this, with President's permission: To pretend to be better or more noble than you really are, e.g. by condemning something else that you do in yourself. This is a description of hypocrisy. So I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he feels that he is more likely to demand that the raises of others be restored after voting for his own salary to be corrected in accordance with the salary development of the employee and for telling health workers in strikes that the pay could not be corrected again ten years but suggested that his own salary be corrected again ten years in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u20	A respectable president. There's nothing to tell us about Pirata's members but that they are going to the council on a higher and higher level. When people are not born because they have actually stolen public money, they are called hypocrites. Hv. Of course, a senator was doing nothing but saying that the minister of finance was a hypocrite after making the false statement that the minister had made a suggestion on his own wages. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. The Senate has not discussed the salary of senators or Ministers. That's what the law says. The Council of Communicate worked by law until it was laid down. The proposal now for the council is to base on the decision of the Council of Elders from 2016, and the basis for the Council's decision is still valid from 2016. He hasn't changed a dollar since then. The bill currently held at the council suggests that the centenarian holds to the center of this year. We've received reviews that we should extend that period. I think that's a good idea. It is wrong, however, when it is. A senator says that even if you look back only in 2013, you have had the increase of your wages in excess of other groups, as can be seen in a report published in the early 1990's by the government. It showed that by maintaining the salary unchanged in 2018, members of the Parliament - and those under the advisers - would come to the same pay line as the 2013 other groups as a reference period. It is simply wrong to vote for senators, ministers, and others under the advice of the sage had, on average, something quite different since that time. [[The president calls.]] It's all right to look further back in time, as to 2006, which I've pointed out, and to remember as far as this report is concerned, or at least at least. in this discussion, and how these groups have developed over the long term.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u21	Mr. President. I had a conversation with the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in this regard. She says: Yes, we went beyond the usual salary development, even if it was in 2006. All officers, including. Bjarni Benediktsson, highest. Secretary of finance, proposed to the Presidency Commission a suggestion that the terms be cut off in order to eliminate these increases. It was just not enough, that was from 2006. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance, because he says a year earlier when he's putting laws on health care professionals strike--I've only got this straight from the council, I'll put this conversation of ours up into a blog with all the Links. It's clear to the highest. Secretary of finance says: A past ten years cannot be corrected. The following year, he proposes that adjustments be made ten years later when it comes to the election. [[Up front.]] Yes, the highest. Secretary of finance, when it comes to elections. They were down here. We were talking about this yesterday. This debate all exists, and these data are all available. The driving payments were reduced from 90,000 dollars. down to 40,000, and the cost of work was reduced too. This was to take over the increase, which was the 2006 reference year, so it was ten years. [[The president calls.]] It was the highest. Secretary of the budget is pleased with that. When we suggested that 2013 be used as a standard, he did not want it. That's why I'm asking because there's no other word I'll find.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u22	A respectable president. Hv. A senator must decide what he will discuss in this discussion. Will he refer to the election of members of the Council as the prime committee, which are mainly work - related payments and reimbursement at the expense and other such factors, or will he refer to the total salary as the Council's Committee on the Council's Presidency? When we ask how these terms have been fully developed, I think that by far the best benefit of building the discussion is the report prepared in cooperation with the labour market partners that came out early last year. It shows that on average, they have no increase in the year - their 2013 development is the same as that of the public markets and government officials. [[The point is, it's...]] I'll make it clear that this conclusion was made by a judge on the part of ASI, but I just can't live under the fact that I'm a minister or other members of Congress, because we haven't been doing anything. [[Up front.]] We are not a decisionmaker for our own benefit. So we've given them an assignment to the Council of Men and created a legal basis for it. Now the Senate's bill is to be based on the 2016 results and then subject to the average development of public employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u23	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of State announced in an interview this week that the extension of the third energy package at the General Assembly would be postponed for an indefinite period of time. During a conversation with the media, a minister said that the matter must be carefully examined and that he would take the time needed. This is becoming the most embarrassing case for the Minister and, in fact, the whole government. This third energy package has been discussed by the General Assembly since 2010 when the council received its first memos on the subject and proposed induction. A subject discussion in committees was conducted in 20146/2016 in making a decision on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Convention. A number of the members of Parliament who have now expressed great doubts about the matter were then attending a council and did not have a loud objection in public talk, at least then. The energy package was then adopted in the EEA Convention in May 2017, led by the current foreign minister without notice. Once again, there was little or no official debate over the plans of that government or any former governments of induction. However, it appears that the discussion here began when the Central Party Noski raised a loud objection to the induction and/or treatment of the Norwegian Council on the matter. Spring. The Norwegians, on the other hand, promptly finished the matter and agreed just about a year ago, but the case seems to be too much for the government here. The case was held in the Constitution of the government at the end of February, but it did not appear as well as was then well known, and it is on the topic sheet of the government during the current council and was to appear at the end of the February, but a minister announced in the media that it would not happen. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What accounts for this endless delay? Can a secretary's emphasis on careful preparation be understood so that the case has been neglected on the part of the Ministry to date, since the third energy package has not changed to the very least? [[The president calls.]] Is it not a matter of government support?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u24	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for the question and for the head for asking me. The reverends have all the same been asking the highest. The prime minister of foreign affairs, and I have found it rather boring when I sit in the hall and do not get to talk with them, so it's a new thing to celebrate. I think it's perfectly exemplary to ask a minister about his own classes and not any other ministers. Now we're going through Backrooms, all right with that, but for this case, we're facing a total agreement on how we're working it. We have won this case, so we have taken seriously all the criticisms that have been presented, and in all equal terms, this is not reported, although it will occur in days or times. However, this reflects just how the major discussion on the EEA deal has been and is developing. It is very important to act in a defense. The discussion has gone a little out and a little south. It's not just about the third energy package, it's about the EEA deal. Hv. A senator referred to Norway. You're right about what you're doing. A senator here has been agents of the Norwegian Central Party, whose goal is to get us out of the EEA and have been trying to talk it down in Norway for a very long time. We know that in Iceland, we also have opponents, if we can say so, and that is also true in Norway, which has undermined the EEA Convention, which is the EU. That's why I get into it when I talk about what's important, because we need to discuss this with the public, with the council and the nation, that it is, for example, that we have to talk about it with the public. And there's a lot of debate about the third energy package that has nothing to do with the energy package, even though it's perfectly clear on our part that we're looking at any objective criticism and see if there's anything to be avoided. When I say, " I only take the time I need to,'it is because we will take the time that it takes to do so. Some of these criticisms are very serious. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that this should be made clear if there is a misunderstanding or that we need to do something to prevent human anxiety from occurring. I think it's wise to do this very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u25	A respectable president. I'm sure you'll ask the highest. Minister on his business. It would be even better if he answered something, but that is not the case. I must ask again, What is it about the matter that gets in the way of the government? Things haven't changed. It received a detailed coverage here and was taken up from the council of his time without any notice and, in fact, gave the green light that it would be recorded in the EEA Convention. It was our chance to influence this matter at the time. There was no discussion, so I remember in the government, which then appeared at the May 2017 recording of anything connected with the offense of filming the case. There seems to have been something new that caused the huge confusion that the government now seems to intend to give up the matter for the second time. I agree with the highest. Minister that this is an important matter involved in the affairs of the EEA Convention in a broad sense. You see, we do not choose what we will record, and of course it is important that we stick to the commitments we have agreed on with the agreement. [[The president calls.]] That's why this delay in the government is a big surprise, and I ask: Is it not a new issue that supports the government? [[The president calls.]] I'll remind them of the vow of Restoration and the Conspiracy to help the case through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u26	A respectable president. There's a total agreement in the government. In these and other matters, we are primarily concerned with Iceland's interests. That's why we're going over the matter, as I mentioned earlier, with that in mind. But we know the whole discussion in this country, we know exactly what it is, and we have to take it on a broader foundation. We have to discuss the EEA contract, and the endless mix-ups that have been going on over the EEA deal for a very long time are completely intolerable. There are two members who combine to get the wrong across the EU, on the other hand, those who want to walk in the EU and the new team now, the Norwegian-West bloodline that wants to walk out of the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u27	...not to teach...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u28	A respectable president. Hv. A senator must accept that the EU has repeatedly claimed that we are taking 90% of the EU's types. [[The president calls.]] What's the fact according to numbers, not from us, but from European institutions? 13.4. [[Up front.]] There's a big difference. Once again, I want to take this opportunity to thank you. A senator for asking me questions about foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u29	A respectable president. What is our most precious possession? Where Is Our Future? It's in our children, it's our children, it's them that will inherit the land. It is the future on which we should build. Therefore, I feel that there is reason why we now take up their affairs and discuss them specifically in connection with a new report recently made for the welfare department. It was published on Kolbeinn Stefánsson, 2000. In fact, the report is on the economic situation of children of Iceland, the poverty of children in 2004-◯2016. It's a lot connected with the postpartum of the crash and how our children's situation is now compared to how well we've managed to straighten out the cows after the crash, how the prosperity has never been greater, how here dribbles butter of every straw. But that is not the case. According to this report, it is actually only supported by the report published by UNICEF in January 2016, a report by UNICEF, which showed different numbers of children's poverty. She showed that nine.1% of Icelandic children lived in poverty. It was the UNICEF report that appeared in 2016 that led to the decision that the woman here decided to establish the people's Stockholm. Therefore, a respectable president, I know that everyone is well aware that this group of languages is especially dear to me. According to a report by sociologist Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson, there are not only 9.1% of children who are in want but he speaks of the poverty of 10 electron 15 percent of Icelandic children. What can be done? The worst - known groups are listed in Icelandic children. Who are more vulnerable to society than those with the poorest parents? Which parents are they? It's not just our underpayers, it's single parents, and they're desperate. In recent years, we also know that microorganisms have increased dramatically. The incidence of disability has increased dramatically, while increasing the number of their children in disability. I say, how can we react? I know it's the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, who took the job for the last year to be titled also by the Ministry of Children's Affairs. He strives to make the best of our children's ways. I'm not supposed to represent the government's opposition and the government minister, but I do. I do it because I really don't care where that good mind comes from. He deserves to be seen. That's why I'm proud to go to this conversation with the highest level. Minister of child care and give him the opportunity to show how the poverty of Icelandic children will now be eliminated. The fact is, it's not only possible but actually possible to do it right away. The report published in February. notes that a writer has a vision of how we can improve our children's position. I'm not going to go to that report myself, but it shows how we can not just improve our situation but find out where poverty is. How is it measured? How is it with food, clothing, and shelter? What's going on with the children's housing safety? How does it take root? They just don't. This group, our most vulnerable group, cannot take root. In this case, we will continue this discussion. I'm gonna make my last words because it's so weird that the time flies when you're here. But I would like to have a discussion about this subject and say: " Children have a special position when it comes to the poverty talk. People can debate whether adults are responsible for their own poverty or not, but one thing is completely undisputed: children are never responsible for their own poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking this matter up here and would like to begin by saying something. A senator that children are never responsible for their own poverty or for the condition of living in poverty. Children are not really poor but are the circumstances in which they live that make them unable to have what other children do. I think it's good, because of that. A senator quoted a recent report, reminding us that Iceland is generally very effective when it comes to children's status. All research and research show that being a child in Iceland is generally good; we are quite high when it comes to it. To say that, it is clear that you are right. One senator says that one child who lives in poverty is too much. A recent report prepared for the Strategic Watch shows that this is a challenge. True, it is a report prepared in 2004/2016, which is completed over a long period of time, which provides support to the same information as in the UNICEF report presented in 2016 at any given time. A senator pointed out. I must say, I greatly welcomed the report that was presented to the Department of Traffic and was present at her presentation. I would like to point out that the UNICEF report at its time showed that 9.1% of all children according to the analysis had been missing in 2014, that governments specifically supported UNICEF to update the report prepared last year. We are expected to get results of it very soon because it is extremely important that we be in combination with what we are working on, as it were. A senator knows, and I'll come in better afterwards, that we'll take the position of what we're at each other, and we'll have new information in it. In connection with this, I'd like to say there are a number of things we've done in the past year. Among other things, children's benefits have been increased, obstetric payments have been increased and are being involved in prolonging ororfs, and conversations with the rural community are covering the gap between birthorfs and high school. That is exactly what Sir Kolbeinn Stefánsson pointed out in his report. There is also some very drastic suggestions on housing, in 40 teams, now working on a project that is going to be the best way to earn the community's income; by strengthening rent status, by strengthening the general housing system, by supporting the first buyers, and by earning poor people in a real estate market who want to buy their first property. It prepares suggestions. So these matters have a lot to do. Then I'd like to say that the government adopted a last week's proposal that includes all the larger decisions made on the part of the government, including law-employed products, as influenced by child rights and status. I think it's a huge step, and it's starting preparatory work to form in what way it's going to be done. I think it's extremely important because at the same time we make that any action will be corrected or redesigned in the early stages. Of course, this has a tremendous impact in the long run. Then there's a lot of work going on within the Department of Social Affairs, which allows children to be involved. At that job, representatives of a number of councils, representatives of the European Union, representatives of various institutions and members of society, and this work is then led by a cross-continent member of Parliament, which aims to make basic changes in the structure of the welfare system of children in the Icelandic community. I'm expecting us to start seeing the spring recommendations being born from this job, and there's a tremendous need for everyone to hang onto one, no matter where they're in the system to make changes. Then I have to say that this case is all that can be taken away from referring to the communities as well and the linking to them because it is so much of the services that the rural communities perform in this relationship, that the connection is good. Finally, I'd like to say that despite all the work that's going on, this great work that we're doing, we're going to have to respond to it for a short time. Some of the operations the government has undertaken are good, but I have decided to initiate a special task force in the coming days, which aims to review the report coming, to respond to the UNICEF report when it comes next with the aim of developing and implementing specific initiatives in cooperation with the government to remove children's resources on the land. [[The president calls.]] I have strong faith that it can be done, but for that, everyone has to work on one government, both the General and the other, we need to have our communities with us on this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u31	V.E.G. President. I want to start my case with Nelson Mandela, with the permission of presidents: 'Like slavery and apartheid, poverty is not self-denial. She was created by man. It can be overcome and eliminated by man's actions. In Iceland, poverty should not exist. In such a rich country, we need to keep our luck balanced. Fortunately, in this room there is a full room, or almost, of people in position to eliminate poverty in Iceland. It's in everyone's best interest. Research shows that children and youths who grow up in poor financial conditions are more likely to fall out of sports and leisure activities, alcohol and drugs. Poorness promotes class distinctions, increases stress that can again lead to many health problems. Children who grow up in poverty are more likely to have a mental disorder later in life. They are also more likely to be harassed as well as harassed. Finally, they are at a much higher risk of sexual abuse, including a vulnerable group. Thus, the elimination of poverty is a massive threat to death, disease, addiction, and mental illness. Improving the common population will increase the likelihood that children growing up will become healthy and active members of society. With any child who has escaped from addiction or mental illness, we later spend tremendous costs and more important things, saving a person himself. Finally, I would like to emphasize the importance of prevention and goody support for the activities of children and adolescents, but the factor appears to be cut first into narrow homes. Let's just stick to some good things together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u32	Mr. President. Thank you so much for this discussion. That statement is obvious to the highest degree. The social and child-friendly minister of policy of the current government is clear when it comes to child affairs, and that's a good thing. I have stressed that when we talk in general about economics and tax issues, we look at our family as a unit. A strong family is the basis for children's success in Icelandic society. That's why it's important when we talk about taxes, transportation, education, etc. that we consider how this affects our family, the fundamental unity of society. If the basic unit, the family, is weak, the situation of children is weak. I think it's very important to have that in mind. It is therefore a joy to see that the economic situation of households is stronger now than at least for the last 10 to 15 years. You're better off in debt. As a share of provisions, debts are lower than in other countries. The home property is much better than any other North country, and it is one of the cornerstones that we can protect the family and the children. I'd also like to draw the attention of the World Congress that there is now a bill for the treatment of an economic and business committee to strengthen a free partner society, a community to the greater good, to face major projects in building up facilities, including Sports companies and other charity companies, and that they have certain taxable attractions, reimbursement of merit tax. I hope that there is one way or another in which a body of Congress cooperates to resolve this matter so that we can loyally back our companions for the good of the people, especially those who do youth work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u33	Mr. President. Six years have passed since the United Nations Children's Covenant was legalized here, but the government has not yet passed the standards set by the United Nations Child Court for its introduction. These criteria require a comprehensive plan for children's issues. Such a program has been violated by governments. One of the priorities of the United Nations at the present assembly is a concierge proposal to set up time and financed measures until the next four years to strengthen the status of children and adolescents. The program aims to improve the lives and well - being of all children, but we give special attention to sensitive groups. The suggestions are extensive. These include measures to improve the survival of children, support in rearing, and increase prevention. They are for the benefit of children and young people with developmental abnormalities and mental disorders, long - suffering children, immigrants, children, and young people who suffer from drug problems or behavioral problems and to protect children from domestic violence, sexual abuse, and neglect. We want meetings to be ways to coordinate work and family responsibilities and services with family members with shorter and flexible hours and to ensure parents that they can care for their sick and disabled children. We would like to extend our maternity to 12 months and improve the survival of a child's family by improving child welfare and by getting more families to get children's welfare. Mr. President. As I said before, the suggestions are very extensive. They go about improving the well - being of every child in the country. Let the motion be accepted, which has now been accomplished in the course of time. The well - being committee then in September, and the work it does, will improve the situation of all children, especially those living in poverty who are more vulnerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u34	Mr. President. Although I believe that projects involving the poverty of children primarily rest with the government, we must not forget the importance of community responsibility. A country's budget can have a major impact on income - rich families. That's where we are, for example. discuss preschool fees, school food subscriptions, leisure expenses, and even transportation. In fact, my group of left motors, ◯ green supplies, in many parts of the country, has been proposed to reduce this cost, e.g. with free nurserys and free lunch subscriptions in school. It is incredibly expensive for children in Iceland to play sports, and we all know how important it is for children, especially children who are in poor economic circumstances, to be part of the group. Lately, we have heard older people describe what it was like to be poor as a child, how much excommunication was, and how they covered the situation. I'm not talking about how expensive it is to study music in Iceland. It's like it's just for the chosen upper class. So we too need to change. That's where the communities have to come. Social excommunication may be one of the most serious of children's poverty, their being left out. We even lose talent when we are young because it is beyond because of poverty. Some talk that a longer maternity could help. I'm not necessarily sure of that. Some say that it would reduce women's job involvement. Yet, we know that single - parent families and microlooms who are in the worst financial situation and who need the most support. It seems to me that the government's proposals for taxes are taking into account that the low - income groups are more involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u35	President. I've said it before and will say it again: Our children are our future. It's the most valuable thing in the community. Children's physical and spiritual health should always be first. It must never suffer a lack of funds, but it is today, and it has been a long time. The New Department report on child living and poverty in Iceland in 2004-2016 is simply a judgment against government policies that have been ruling over the last few years. One writer believes that there is no evidence to indicate in the management of the economy that a special emphasis has been placed on protecting children in Iceland from the effects of the crisis, nor is there any attempt to improve the standard of life of children when the national economy began to prosper. The simplest way to improve the standard of living for the children of today who are financially worst in society is to improve the quality of disability and single parents. Thus we will strengthen their children, but nearly four out of ten children under low income limits are children of single parents. President. The decision to allow poverty to continue is man's work. These are the decisions we make here in this house. Tomorrow's a strike start. As a result of these strikes, governments have decided not to listen to the exact demands of the labor movement. You see, it's not just about buying and choosing, it's about our children's future. It's possible that there's a bit of enlightenment, Mr. President, that before you thought it was so. paritaprevir The Independence Party, Óli Björn Kárason, gave a talk on the poverty of children and managed to slip completely past the poverty of children in their speech. He didn't say anything about her. This may well illustrate the course we have endured for far too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u36	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the advocate of this discussion for bringing her into the General Hall. This is an extremely important discussion, and it is very important when we look at the economic situation of parents and poor children that society will do everything in its power to ensure that children raised in poverty will still live on equal occasions in our society. There is much to consider. The birthworm is an important and important part. We should start right away at the beginning and extend the birthworm to 12 months and bridge the gap by ensuring that daily care for the manageable will be immediately from the age of 12 months at the end of the delivery session. We need to revise the child - reform system and its interaction with other government support systems and to make sure that child - welfare benefits benefit the poorest families. The social involvement of poor children is also a matter of personal importance, as we have discussed in this discussion. Participating in leisure activities is an enormous cost, an insurmountable cost to the poorest family, and we must reevaluate the cost of participation in sports activities, music schools, as mentioned here, and direct sports or leisure grants that are increasingly available to the poorest family members or in some way guarantee freedom of charge there. Of course, it is also very important to keep the children of immigrants in mind, who often live in a very narrow position. It is especially important that they have equal opportunities for leisure activities. Above all, there is mental health issues, i.e. to ensure increased freedom of charge in mental health care and timely diagnosis within the school system. It is completely unacceptable how long it will be before children receive proper training in the present arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u37	A respectable president. It sucks to know that having a disabled child can lead to poverty, not just poverty but severe poverty. Let me know that it's nothing harder than trying to fight a system that will take no account of the children born with disability, a system that is very unfair. Thus, the cost of family life can be massive, and the system does not make it claim. Rather, it puts both parents and a child in a situation of poverty. Then it takes time for the disabled person to go to school. Is the school system ready? No, most of the time. Amateurs, sports, pedestrians bioavailability? No, I'm sorry, that's the missing group. Sadly, this is the group that is rarely talked about and is not able to get enough help. They're people who live in very poor places. What are the few things? What is the result when a parent or a child is very poor? This results in malnutrition, which, of course, is terrifying, depression, and anxiety for each day. How will living under such conditions affect the parents of a poor child every day? My health's going to give it up. What? Who, then, will take over? [[The president calls.]] Do you think it'll be better if the health system jumps to help eliminate poverty?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howlsand for taking the initiative in this discussion and at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur The Einar Daðason for the answers. The discussion and the report that we specifically discuss are important tips in the work being done on children's affairs, including those related to their children. the work now being done on the Committee of All Parliaments, where I am and why. The proponents are agents, as well as others who participate in the debate today. The report will be discussed at the meeting of the Committee tomorrow. Give them a better chance to do away with it. The report tells us that the children of single - parent families and disability live under the low standard of living in Iceland, although in general the standard of living for children in Iceland is good, better in comparison with most other European countries. But it is unacceptable for some children to live in poverty here, and we should put it in full priority to improve the standard of living for their children over all other groups. The report includes three parts of the development of proposals or measures to improve poverty; income, family, salary, and the public transfer system to improve the quality of life and reduce poverty and, finally, public service that can improve the equation. I'd like to stop first just by the way with the pay. The key is that the minimum wage increases and that a higher part of the basic wage is available for day - to - day work, for that is the time that single parents can earn. On the other hand, I would like to stop at the birth lagoon. We often talk about its extensions and maximum pay, but the floor, minimum payment, is what puts some parents, young parents, in a very difficult position during the first few months of the time they are parents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u39	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the voter for starting a need and a good discussion on the economic status of children in Iceland. I'd like to thank the highest. Ministers and others here who have spoken and heard. However, I would like to use this talk chair to echo the pleas of the children and young people who were standing here outside last Friday and who encouraged the government to act on climate issues. An enormous awakening is among the young people in the world today about the threats that happen to us if we do not reduce pollution and increase carbon binding. These voices need to be heard. Small means to attack the owners of the private car and tax them to kill themselves while the largest sources of pollution, industry, airplanes, and ships drive their machines in the same way. In addition, we need to bind carbon, not just taxe its emissions. We need to contribute to forestry, domestic production and agriculture, so Icelanders prefer wholesome domestic products with minimal carbon track. Everyone can do something, and those in charge of the land need to do more. It is our responsibility to bring this earth into a better condition than it is now for those who follow us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u40	Mr. President. When discussing such issues, the discussion tends to go out a little bit and south. If we are discussing the matter from the title of the discussion, the economic situation of the Icelandic children, we can say that in general the economic situation of children is good, since the economic situation of the Icelandic households is generally good and has improved in recent years. All economic statistics show that in recent years there has been an enormous financial growth that, of course, affects the economy of the majority of people in the country. When the numbers are analysed, we will see that this growth in trade and this recovery has reached every income group in the community. It is also appropriate to keep in mind when we engage in this discussion that all the uniform measurements available on the equation and incorruption give Iceland a good score. In this regard, despite what is often held out from this platform, there is much less inexorably than in most countries we compare with, whether in view of income or possessions. In other words, a person is supported by something other than a uniform economy. Of course, we will be like many others. In this discussion, members of Congress have rightly referred to groups of children as well as parents with the weakest position. Governments, Generals, rural governments, and others must focus on improving the situation of those who are ill in this regard. These groups are available in our community, and our work is aimed at improving their status, whether it is single parents, disability, or those at the worst in the labour market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u41	A respectable president. Nothing is more precious to us than children. This has been shown in the case of those who have spoken here today. The future lies ahead in the children. We are to carry them, to care for their interests and well - being, to care for their responsibilities and privileges. How are we doing? Are we doing this? I'm sorry. It's a walk. A respectable president. The infant will soon appear to be an individual with opinions, teenagers with formative opinions, and then mature adults. Small material and even poverty are the realities of thousands of Icelandic children. In a group of ten children, one child is expelled for these reasons. Data suggest that poor children are less involved in leisure activities and are often surrounded by narrow and inadequate housing. Also, poverty has an impact on children's relationship with their families and peers. Children who grow up in poverty have later described shame, harassment, isolation, and trauma. Of course, poor children experience their own trauma and anxiety over stress that may develop at home between parents and their children even teach themselves about family conditions. This may affect the person's personality and attitude before life. There are those who take these steps lightly; these things do not adversely affect their children. There are those who say that of different kinds, children thrive best. No, this is where we need to talk seriously. We can do much better. It is a social assignment to ensure the situation of all children. We have created a setting that is not a friendly family of children. Let us begin with a maternity vacation that is far inferior to those in neighboring lands. This is also true of housing support, and a vital factor is child repair, but support measures have been cut off. [[The president calls.]] All of this is an equation that the political elements of this country have in their power, and we know what power is. Actions speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u42	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this important discussion, and perhaps not least for using it to draw attention to the children's living and poverty report. It is so important that we base our discussion on the subject of good information. I must say, it was shocking to hear that not only each child in Iceland was missing but especially that children had come out worse than the one in the crash, which shows that we certainly have not been able to stand up for this delicate and important group of members. Today, there have been many reports of children, if you can call them a lawsuit, a lawsuit that runs a little between state and country. This should certainly not lead to damaging progress in these matters. In particular, I would like to mention the gap between obstetrics and high school, an enormously important task, in which countries and rural groups now have to work on some ambitious action that will unite in the care of children during these first formative years. Then I want to come on one thing that matters so that the poverty of parents does not affect the involvement of children in children's society. These have been called leisure time, leisure activities, and sports that children participate in. This is the community that they share, and the cost is not important when it comes to sharing in it. Then we will see that they children cannot have a full share with their peers, and they will have negative consequences. The minister here mentioned the ideas that any larger decision-making and legislation projector should be turned aside from the influence of children's status. This is an important step that would have been better stepped into the collapse, as the report shows, but success is important. [[The president calls.]] We got, for example. A autumn transport program that had not been cleared up from the influence of climate issues despite the promise there so that I'll encourage the minister to be active in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u43	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u44	A respectable president. If members of Congress could pass down the experience of poor people with money money and other bullshits, they would be cool. Thank you. A respectable president. Protection, care, and participation are the primary objectives of the United Nations Children's Convention, which was legally validated here in 2013. As a nation, we are committed to this covenant as well as to an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. Children have these rights, Mr. President, primarily to be children and to live in innocence so carefree of the problems their parents face each day. In my home, it's called adult worries. It is more than merely to calm down an anxious child who heard too much of her parents'adult concerns. To convince the child that new shoes are to be put on the old ones, despite the cost of money, are to convince a child that clothing is necessary in spite of the cost of money, to breathe through the panic attack that comes with an appeal on the food store card. This is what children in Iceland should not have to live with. Poor children are poor because we as a community have not stood up to their parents and we as a community have failed to keep their rights. This is shown in the children's well - being and poverty report. The solution is an increase in the lowest salary and benefits. It's pretty simple. However, the report also says that the problem is not insurmountable if the will is at hand. Hence, the report gives hope to poor parents and their children that if governments take this injustice seriously, flowers will come better, no matter what background they have and where they came from. What a joy it is to hear of the grandest plan! Minister. We cannot help but hope that they will follow action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u45	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking everybody. Senators for truly putting their arms around the seminary with me along with the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. The situation is that despite the fact that the report indicates that, in general, children in Iceland will have a greater success than that of walking and generalizing around us, as some of them do. Congress officials have noted, it is the fact that what we are particularly looking at here and now is the group of children who live in poorest terms, who live in poverty, and who need to think that we take special care of him. It's also said that it's a cooperation project, even between local society and government. The nature of the matter is natural, but it does not change the fact that with good will and cooperation, for example, we can do it. Avoid any single child at a elementary school in Iceland ever hungry, at least during school time. We can also prevent them from becoming alone and from participating in leisure and sports. As mentioned earlier in our discussion, we have hidden treasures everywhere, treasures in human life that may never grow and never be used in our happy society because these children are left behind. There's no money, think about it. It's all about money, a respectable president. It's not just possible. It's our duty to eliminate the poverty of children in Iceland. It should not be on the government's command to wait for the benefit of the children. We are to eliminate national ills of poverty, and we are to do so now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u46	A respectable president. I thank you for the conversation that has been very good and very consistent. I think it's extremely important that we all go along with this party, just like that. paritaprevir Inga Sæland came in earlier. I'd like to say there's a lot going on, but no changes will be made unless everyone comes to them. The metal party is that it is with both state and community, and it is with the individual councils within the state. So it is important to make sure that all talk together in the same direction. There is something else that I would like to mention in the discussion. I agree with the members of the community, and I rejoice that many rural communities have done very well, including the U.S.A. to introduce the children's covenant. We've been considering now in the new Department of Social Services how we can better support our communities during the induction of the Children's Covenant, how we can get more involved. Even now, like the driving force of children, we work to make a special overall plan. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir pointed earlier. So I'm here to celebrate the council resolution of the United Nations, where a number of things are involved in the affairs of children because we all have one thing to do in these matters. Then I want to reiterate what I said before, we're taking a lot of big steps. So we need to agree on them. With regard to our child's poverty, we need to act more strongly. We've already undergone some operations. I'm going to start working with experts and others, we're going to evaluate how we can step into a tighter pace to eliminate the lack of children. We will initiate it and look to this report as well as to the UNICEF report. Then I'd like to say, finally, that the council is entering a new child protection strategy with 600 million expected. K. increase in the case category from the present time, with new early measures in full accord with the policy set out in the government, with the support of all classes of the Parapolitan Commission and beyond. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thank you for this discussion. She was very good. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u47	President. I can't let it pass to mention only the program of the meeting and the chairmanship of the President. The next will be fish farming (the risk assessment of genetics, distribution of farms, administrative fines, etc.).), matters that were quite surprising to us in view of the fact that the job committee is all dealing with abroad and studying fish farms. We have, however, received clues from the highest level. The President of the Generals for a luncheon meeting with members of the council that will review the case and try to find some point of respect for its completion in the near future. It is almost unpleasant for members of Congress to have news, and then e - mails that can be offended by the language in which it is tried to tell them that it was the decision of a minister, president, and any member of the Committee to handle matters as this was. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground on, ridiculous.]] You can't help but make comments about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u48	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1060, 647th case. This is a bill for the adjustment of various laws related to fish farming. A bill with the same title was submitted to the 148th legislature as it was, like what I present today, based largely on the motion of a fishing policy group appointed by a sea - out legion minister in November 2016 and that group returned their report on August 21, 2017. This team was appointed representatives from the National Institutes of Fishing, Aggressive Association, Employment and Development Ministry, and Environment and Resource Ministry, but these stakeholders agreed on the proposals of the Task Force. His work included consultations with agencies that have a legal administrative role for fish farming. They are institutions, such as Fish Service, Marine Research Institute, Food Organization, Organization and Environment Agency. There were also some stakeholders who met the staff, such as members of a rural group and some free community organizations, including members of the local community. has to do with nature protection. The first bill was published on the board of directors' Web, January 30, 2018, and was received 30 reviews on that subject. The Ministry prepared a review of the bill and a new program that introduces the bill to the government's consultations on December 20, 2012. That led to 31 careful reviews. So the bill has changed a few things since then. The objective of this bill is to strengthen the production and management of fish farms and to promote fish farms to become strong and strong sectors in which sustainable development and protection of the environment are guided. The bill is based on the government's contract, which says that fish farming is a growing industry that has the opportunity to build up, but it needs to build up with extreme caution in accordance with scientific advice so that biodiversity is not threatened. At the same time as the growth of this article, the necessary laboratory and normal monitoring of environmental impacts must be ensured. Finally, as the fish - fire grows, the provision for the release of the legislature is a matter of the future. A respectable president. In general, the environmental challenges faced by Icelandic fish farms are three. First, organic stress or pollution, like salmon lice, and third, genetic mixtures with wild salmon strains. I think it's right in this story to briefly review these three points considering the changes the bill makes. First, in terms of organic pressures, the Marine Research Institute has been working on the planned fishing industry to measure their long - term carrier tolerance, i.e. How much of the organic pressures in the marine environment can be received without any adverse impact on the environment. In everyday speech, it is called carrier food. According to the bill, the Habitat Research Institute will monitor the organic pressures of areas already evaluated for carrier tolerance and will review the assessment as often as necessary in the Agency's assessment. At the same time, the bill states that the survival rate of running animals must never exceed the weight of the carrier tolerance assessment by the Institute of Marine Research. Second, the bill expects internal surveillance of marine breeding centres to include includes monitoring the appearance of salmon lice in the fire in accordance with the instructions provided in the Minister's Regulation. The results of the alarm should be sent to the Food Agency to determine whether and what actions are required for salmon lice. Then, in the bill, the obligation of the MAH is to provide the Food Organization monthly reports on its activities. This includes: Information on diseases and parasites is presented. It also provides permission for a minister to recommend a treatment strategy for infestations in fish farms, such as the carer's obligation to identify salmon lice in designated circumstances, a set of thresholds for response and measures for the spread of salmon lice. The report will be developed further in cooperation with the assessment centre specialists. Finally, I want to mention genetic mixtures with wild salmon, which is the challenge that has been given most attention in public discussions. The government's policy is that the decision to build fish farming will be based on advice from scientists. Therefore, in the bill the risk assessment of genetic mix is determined to be established and to ensure that it will provide the basis for the permitted quantity of fertile farms in marine farms at any given time, but the assessment indicates how much salmon can be safely fed in a certain region so that it will not be harmed by wild salmon strains. The bill assumes that the Marine Research Institute will provide binding suggestions on the risk assessment of genetics, but the proposal will be used previously to consult a fish farm for a professional and theoretical discussion. However, this committee cannot make any changes in the risk assessment. The minister then confirms the risk assessment of genetic preparation as suggested by the Marine Research Institute and is binding on the proposal for Ministers. Then it is stated in the bill that the NTSB should propose a reevaluation of the Risk Assessment of Genetic Mixing for the Communication Committee on Fishing within two months after the legislation has been published in Government News. By legalizing the risk assessment of genetics, the government is dealing with this challenge in scientific ways. Only in this way will there be a solid foundation for successful breeding with the environment. With the bill, the Food Agency is authorized to alter the management arrangements in line with the change in genetic risk assessment or changes in the range of carrier tolerance. As a result of this emphasis on the research and monitoring of the environment, the bill also gives particular advice on the warrant of the Marine Research Agency for the temporary research of fish farming in Iceland's Fishland weekend, alone or in cooperation with others. It is designed to facilitate and facilitate the needed research for fish farming and, in particular, farming attempts for marine farms. A respectable president. During the past few months, I've had the privilege of learning about the construction of fish farming in our major neighboring countries, including those of the United States. Norway and the Faeroe Islands. These nations have gone far beyond Iceland's ability to build a powerful fish farm and to learn from what has been done well in those countries. In this context, it is interesting that one of the main counselings of these nations to us in Iceland was to promote the immediate cooperation of the key elements involved in the building up of this article. That's how it came, e.g. ... in an introduction from the Norwegian High Commissioner for Fisheries to the key key to success in Norwegian fish farming, the joint representatives of the four key elements of this project, first of course the government, second of fish farming companies, third of nature, and fourth science. On the other hand, at home the discussion is sometimes a person's experience as if it were a choice between two views: Should we want to build fish farms or protect nature? To me, this is the wrong approach. These principles can and should work together well, as salmon fish cooking is considered to be environmental and sustainable food production. So I think we Icelanders can do a lot better to make these key elements work together. With this objective, the bill sets up a board of consultations with governments for counseling on the topic of fish farming. This aim is to strengthen the scientific basis for genetic risk assessment and to promote the necessary consultation with the development of fish farming in this country. The role of the meeting committee will include evaluating the basis and processing of the data on which genetic management is based. Therefore, it is very important that all key organisations share a difference of opinion on this important tool to which the risk assessment is intended, but also on other factors that concern fish farming issues. The Committee will appoint five representatives and appoint the Minister of the Chairman of the Committee, which also appoints in the Committee Marine Research Centres, Fishing Institutes, the National Association of Fishing Associations, and the European Union of Iceland. A respectable president. Among other changes in the bill, there is the suggestion that sea areas will be divided into fire zones and allowed to be distributed by advertising. It is suggested that management be promoted, and monitoring enhances fish farming. This means increasing transparency about the activity of fish farms by increasing the frequency of information administration. Enterprises will provide increased monitoring, and governments will also be authorized to impose control fines. In this case, I would like to mention that the environmental supply of marine farms will be increased by increasing contributions from the Marketing Authorisation Holder to sea farms and that they will be expected to pay for the fund, but there is still a significant need for research; it is simply very clear, which the fund can use to answer. The government's vision of the future in this bill is to create European fish farming conditions for building up, making it a strong and powerful industry. However, we plan to be careful in this structure and to contribute to responsible fish farming, with sustainable development and protection of the environment and wild salmon being guided by science and research. I refer in other respects to the comments that follow the bill, which are discussed in detail and given an explanation for its contents. After the discussion here, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u49	Mr. President. I want to say the bottom line. Ministers, it's very important to fish farms that the sector is sustainable and that we make it sustainable, relevant to society, relevant to the economy and that the environment is all in order. It all needs to be held in hand. When water began here for real, firemen declared that they would always let nature enjoy the doubt in all their operations. But it hasn't worked out. The bill we're discussing here puts a lot of emphasis on it, if I understand it and the highest. Ministers correctly, on the research and monitoring of the environment, the role of the Food Agency will be large, as well as the Marine Research Centre. However, when assessing the value of this monitoring and these research will be additional, financial adjustments are not expected to be necessary because there will be no net damage to government funds. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what benefit he thinks the state funds are of this profession in the suit presented in this bill, if any, except for the costs of surveillance and research.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u50	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry from what? Senator. In short, the benefits to the sector's structure are significant, especially in the communities we see receiving and hosting this business, as in southern Western Europe and part of the East. The cost of this monitoring is expected to be at the Food Institute and the Sea of Food, especially on the research programme, from the Marine Fund. The bill assumes that remuneration will be raised in that fund and that companies will pay for it. Second, there is a load of carriers, and in the consultation march, a bill for curing the fish industry, which will depend on other aspects of the cost that may fall onto the state fund because of increasing monitoring and monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u51	Mr. President. For example, when talking about fish farming, we would like to learn from the mistake as well as from what is done well in neighboring countries, especially in Norway and the Faeroes. In Norway, the permits are up. Norway's wealth of money has earned a lot of money by offering out the permits. Despite the costs that the companies have had to pay by offering their license, the profits of the Norwegian companies have been huge, and the permits has been high. 19th degree. is drawn up by certain fees that may be paid for their licenses. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why has Norway not been consulted regarding such invitations?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u52	A respectable president. It is likely to be learned from the mistakes of other nations. I think this bill, from 2016 on, has been tried to look at them, e.g. In order that we can set up watch requirements and concentration requirements on the basis of strengthening our chances of avoiding unwanted natural disasters. The neighboring nations have been viewed as paying the price. It will be reflected in the bill I hope to present shortly on the payoff. It was playing a puzzle at the same time as this bill. I remind you, when we compare payment here with, for example, Norway is a relatively new auction in Norway on part of the permits. Here in Iceland, a few tens of thousands of tons have been distributed on the basis of current laws that do not assume to receive a license. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've got the bill trying to work on it in some way to pay for a company's getting the use of a common sea. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u53	The president reminds the speakers to keep time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u54	A respectable president. I'm glad we're here dealing with a bill to legalize some of the conditions related to fish farming. I think it's very important that we proceed with the legal environment to find the best way to use and protect at the same time, to build sustainable sectors of fish farms and, at the same time, sustainable communities. What I wanted to ask specifically is the antiquities because of genetic preparation. The proposals of the Agency are expected to be binding. Are there other examples of the proposals of the research agency being binding for ministers? However, I wanted to ask a few questions about the organic process. Has there been a checkup, if I understand correctly, but are there any requirements for companies themselves to be in charge of the organic process? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u55	A respectable president. First regarding the genetic risk assessment. No, I don't know if there's any other law or if there's binding suggestions for a minister. In this case, after the review of comments, after a discussion on the subject, I find it perfectly normal that this proposal is presented in the bill for the reason that the Ministry has no knowledge or anything like that in order to provide advice on the SEC. In addition, it is also the fact that this is an accurate number, i.e. the number of tons allowed to feed in the sea This is not comparable to e.g. our food on fish stocks in the ocean where we really know much less. We have a lot of structural tolerance and a risk assessment of almost, I don't tell you a kilo of fish, but it's decided by the government how much goes out there by some total law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - I'll come to the alarm and the organic adjustment in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I also wondered about the pay or the payment of the fire. There's another bill coming, I understand the words of the minister. Is it, or is this bill anywhere expected to take money to a farm partner off the fire? Or is this being discussed in some other part of the system? Even many rural societies can build up a fish supply even if income is just one of them. However, I wanted to ask a little questions about wild salmon stock and the definition of wild salmon, how it is defined in the present. Have any studies of the effects of sludges this year, past release, were conducted on wild salmon populations today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u57	A respectable president. I think we're supposed to keep a discussion about the currency of fish farms for that time when the bill comes out. Much will be reflected in that. For the monitoring of the organic strain as a matter of course. A senator mentioned earlier assumed that this was what the Oceanographic Institute raised, that it is her role, but the companies pay, as it were, into the Marine Fund, which finances that work. There are other factors in the bill that assume that companies themselves are involved in this work. They are to provide regular information on aspects of life stress. I don't know if much research has taken place in the compounding of wild salmon stocks and artefacts. There are some theories in this. I can recall two experts who have written several magazine articles on this. However, there is good reason to investigate this factor and to examine more carefully the wild salmon species, not just in rivers but also at sea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u58	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Ministers are correct when an Outfit was appointed by those here to review the fish farms. At the point, however, I felt that the task force was merely wandering off the track when it seemed that he was beginning to negotiate primarily between the Land Association of Fishing and the Land Association of Fishing Camps for some sort of results. Anyway, I'd like to ask a minister about two things. The risk assessment in this bill is much overlooked, and it may be normal to do so at some point. So I ask: What experience has come on this risk assessment, and how often does the EEC receive the great authority of the bill? Second, the definition of wild salmon strains is defined. When is salmon stock lost? What if someone was released in 1985, since he was lost today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and the answer. I don't know if this strain is lost. He can find his way up into the rivers too. Without a joke, I don't know the definition. I don't know that some salmon population was built in that way. The source of the salmon strain, resulting in a basis for release, can probably be attributed to the river. These are definitions that I don't fully know. But in the bill, the definition of wild salmon strains is an oceanographic organization that combines it on the basis of scientific conclusions and in the international context. The experience with risk assessment is not long. It's a machine, it's a novelty we're developing, and the Icelanders have been leading there, a Oceanographic Institute where this has been used at least Once and without a real legal basis for that device. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u60	President. Very likely, it will be on the job board that leads to the definition of the wild salmon strain. As an example, perhaps a year has been cultivated with strains, not from the source, but from other sources. You wonder, " Is there a definition of wild salmon in the particular species? ' Also, when a person has had a so - called ocean bait year, he or she is a wild salmon strain. This is what I feel needs to clarify, and I'm not clear that my bill and my report is involved. Thank you very much for the answers on the risk assessment. We know that this has been done only once, and as a result, I have certain doubts that the right to build so strongly on one project on the bill, as this one is done, including Because the government, the agency, is in control. In fact, a minister has nothing to say, which comes from the Agency, although only some kind of experiment project is involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u61	A respectable president. Yes, the committee will definitely cross the salmon population and its definitions. That's the best part. As for the risk assessment, I'm like a dog. A senator of interest in that. To me it has such a thing as there is no legal basis for the use of this device, since more agencies working with it are becoming infected. That is why I believe that the setting of my discussion is very necessary to clarify and really be in the same place when discussing the tool, the basis for which it is laid, and other factors are proposed, so that all are in the same place when the contents of it are discussed. There are many questions about the use of the device, that I will confess. While building it up, it is normal to have as much understanding as possible of what is involved, even though not all of us must agree on how it is used. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of this story. I have a few things that I would like to have his opinion on and answers. One of these involves the discussion. I share the Minister's opinion that fish farms and nature protection need to be met. Such are the interests of Icelandic society and are actually far beyond Icelandic landstones in view of the importance of fish farming, as it has become in food production in general. However, given that this is the thing that is most successful and that we are at the beginning of the discussion, I first asked if most of it was addressed. Minister to his colleagues in the government, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of Foreign Affairs, and if you like it there. Is the bill adjourned there? And then, in view of the preceding discussion, I ask whether the matter was submitted without reservation from members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u63	A respectable president. I have not had any special consultation with any individual minister, whether it is a minister of the environment, a prime minister, or a financial minister. This is in the case area of the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister and is based on the government's administrative contract. [[Up front.]] At the former level, the Ministry of Environment was represented by the Cooperative Committee on the matter. When I presented the matter for the first time, we had discussions with the Environment Ministry and Environment Minister, and we made some adjustments to the bill. That's the end of it. There are differing opinions about fish farms and their plans for fishing in all categories. I know that not all members of the individual council feel the same way about how this is going to work. [[The president calls.]] It is only natural for me to take, to take less, careful steps to build a new industry that requires us to use and use nature in a different way than we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u64	President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. But continue the importance of social reconciliation as far as possible to the conclusion of the system of things, as the Supreme One does. The minister came in. In this context, I cannot help but mention the legal fees for the use of the facility, which is nature owned by an Icelandic country. We're talking about the use fees, the fees in my mind, it's natural to form some kind of capital that would waste and rot into wood and infrastructure in the areas where the fee would come from. I took it from earlier on that the minister mentioned the need to work on these matters, some of which are mentioned in the 19th chapter. The bill. However, as I understand a minister, it refers primarily to the duties that the State has there, supervision, and so forth. He also points to a planned bill, but my knowledge is very important - we're talking about a case that has different opinions, as a minister came in. [[The president calls.]] We also agree on the importance of the peace of God's Kingdom that it will continue. In some way, this large section of experience cannot be taken out - and I don't quite share that opinion with the highest degree. Minister, we need to work on this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, I believe that this is just a matter of taking a stand and making a clear message. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u65	The president reminds the speakers to give a talk class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u66	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Everyone agrees to try to do this in a way that makes it possible for us to get together. I think it's essential that we have such a balanced view of where we want to take it. I think it's there all over the place. Then we can discern the methods and steps involved. In my mind, it is quite undisputed that we need and have - and actually have it in the process - to pay companies in particular about the use of territories that go under this. As I said before, at the same time it became part of the puzzle, and we are working out the comments that were vast and diverse but did not prosper to get them into the council on time. So there will probably be a week or something like that. It's on the way, so they say. What we have on the bill is the research program in particular funded by the companies who pay a certain amount, and it is raised from 12 SDRs to 20 per tons. [[The president calls.]] That's to pay the test expenses number one, two and three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u67	President. First, I want to thank the Minister for his speech here and the answers and for bringing the bill into the council. This is an important and important bill, to make better use of the fish farm. Of course, history is quite long regarding the origin of this matter. Building a fish farm has been very fast in Iceland, and it may be said that we've been chasing the industry in this. We are a little following the fast trend there. The government, the rules, the environment, has not always been in harmony with the times when the structure takes place. At the same time, we know that the demand for food produced in any kind of fire is growing, especially in view of the reduction in the number of foods produced in the conventional way. For many years farmers or other food producers have steadily declined; they have moved to the big cities around the world. At the same time, we will see that the sea is yielding. So, then, what kind of fire has come to be and will grow. As a result, it is possible to agree with what is presented in the bill, and it has been observed by a minister, that it is important to cover this article and create an environment so that people know what they are doing. As indicated by the name of the bill, the risk assessment of genetics, the distribution of farms, administrative fines, etc. is widely discussed. I'm going to keep a portion of this law for myself, and it's possible that I'll deal with it later. The cover of the bill contains a list of definitions. It says, with the permission of the president, in the 1st section b-join: ▪ The assessment of genetic mixtures: Assessment of the quantity of fertile farms that run from fire to sea and can be expected to come in a year where wild salmon strains are found and where the genetic preparation of farmers at wild crops can be considered, taking into account the antidotes, if the strains of the wild strain are at risk. I have to admit that I may not have read deep enough in the explanation of what is meant, considering the countermarital actions to be taken into account. But how important it is that there are ideas to consider in detail how to handle and assess counter measures! In answer to the highest. A minister asked me when the risk assessment was taken. We know that it has once been done, with Isenafs deep, if I recall correctly, where the ideas of those who wanted to go in the fire for counters were rejected, at least in the beginning. Motive measures are widely known. Of course, we should take them into account, making it clear when they are relevant and when they are not relevant, etc. Also referred to wild salmon stock. Commenting on the unique articles of the bill, we have a small explanation of what this means. Here are two ways to define wild salmon population and it appears that if I have understood this correctly, it would be a certain way for a Marine Research Institute to choose. I think it's very important to be suspicious of what definition they're going to use. In my mind, it can hardly resist an opinion if the choice exists between fish breeds, which can lead to hundreds or dozens of hundred jobs, or the lost salmon strain, which has been cultivated on which salmon stock has not even been available, or that is the methods that are not directly related to wild animal life; I find very questionable to give such years to the doubt so that I am completely clean with it. I think there's a difference between when the real wild population is in a river and when it doesn't. This may be complicated, but it is very important that we make this clear. Then I'd like to discuss with you a little bit about the hearing committee mentioned by the Minister. I agree completely with that - in view of the way the bill is spoken, and even if it was a slightly different word, I'll come in on it afterwards - that a board of consultations is an improvement. There is, of course, improvement in these matters, and especially the grounds and the data used in the risk assessment discussed here. I'm going to tell you that I think it's a great idea to make a decision on the kind of risk assessment here, considering that there's no experience with it. There's very little knowledge about this risk assessment. I understand that there would be some framework for that, and therefore I would have chosen that the risk assessment would not be binding for a minister, that a minister would have the authority to resolve that and at the same time have the ultimate responsibility in the case. I don't like the fact that the officials of the Oceanographic Institute are responsible for this. As Minister of this seminary for a while, I have a meeting with the executives of the institution and, of course, have things to say about it. I did not always agree with the opinions there presented, whether fishing should be in the sea or on land alone. I have certain doubts about the methodology and what else the Agency is going to live through, so it's just said here. But while the bill is said to be there, there is an improvement. This will only bring us back to the risk assessment. In view of the lack of experience, I feel that it is important not to put the risk assessment to such an extent as this. Criticism has also been observed. We saw that when this risk assessment was first applied to the use and setting of significant criticism. This may have been the case in some way, with changes or ideas behind it. Of course, if so, it is very good. On page 18. 3 The risk assessment process and the process will be considered. According to the secretary, this benefit-risk assessment is confirmed by the request of the Institute of Veterans Research. That's a good argument for the highest. Secretary that there is a constant mass or constant number, in contrast to what is in the fishing road, in the process of assigning resources. I still think there may be a difference of view. This is not a case where it should be justified, I think, that the Agency has this final ruling authority. I don't think so. I feel that a minister should make final decisions and be responsible for that. Of course, he has expert advice, and, of course, it becomes a safer tool for a minister to heed, especially in time, and there is more experience on the risk assessment and a better knowledge of it. It's totally clear. On page 18. 8 on the bill, 19. g., it is said of a yearly fee that needs to be paid. For some reason, it's installed in the boring currency of the SDR. I don't know why that is. Maybe I should have read about it, maybe there are explanations. Why don't they use the crowns, the blessed Icelandic crown, why is this SDR-cantati here? Here, however, there is clear discrimination toward those with sea pens and sealed heifers as well as unfertilized salmon. I'm going to understand this so that there's an built-in force for people to go that way, to have to pay less. But I think it's a little early to put it out, you know? I don't think it's far along with unfertilized salmon that it's really practical to go to such a fire. And as I have read last, these closed heifers are coming, but they may not be quite far enough. Of course, we're waiting for news from Norway. A professional health committee has been there, and she is deeply missing from this hall, and she has been considering the matter. Maybe she'll bring some new information, for the person here at least, about that matter all of it. If I've calculated this correctly, it may be estimated that, based on the SDR, 10,000 tons of fire may pay $335,440 million in this fund. Of course, it's something that just turns out. On page 18. 10, 23. c (III.) discusses when a license to land on non-fertilized salmon falls. It's probably looking to a future that's just fine. I have considered only the group of work that is discussed on page 18. 12 and I'm not going to go through with it. However, I reiterate that when I saw how his work went, I was disappointed. It was not planned at the time that this would be a negotiation between the largest parties. Rather, it was to consider that the film was slightly larger than that. I think it's good, if I get it right, that it's been trying to end the race that's been going on in the area. That is a great improvement, and it was never tailored to the fact that people were moving ahead with their territory. I think the Minister is doing a good job dealing with it in the bill. There is something else that I was going to discuss in advance of time. I may have a chance for the next talks to take a closer look at this matter. It is vital for us that the matter is as clear as possible. It is also vital for us to have good publicity. I certainly hope that in a review of the Council's Committee it will be highly suspected in the definitions, into the need to legalise the risk assessment to the extent required. I understand the need to validate some means for the party to work in and around them, but I also encourage the committee to consider seriously making the change that a minister will become a permanent decision-maker, not an institution or a government official.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u68	The prime committee now approved a luncheon change in the work schedule so that the next Monday, March 11th, scheduled for the day of the committee, will be changed and a meeting will begin at 4 p.m. 15 days. This meeting will be completed at 1st. About 647th matter, fish farm, which is the management bill from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister, so the matter can go to the Committee. Then it is also a request for a council members to complete their meetings by the time they arrive. 14 of that day, so that there can be a new session at the end of the day. One-four-five-five to hold.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u69	Mr. President. We're just beginning to celebrate the fact that we're now dealing with the highest bill. Marine and agricultural minister to correct the change in the laws associated with fish farms. On the other hand, I realize that there is something in the country that we're gonna do with the bill and the bill. The job committee will arrange for this. There's a lot of interest here. There will be no controversy that great opportunities may involve fish farming, whether by land or by sea farms. How important it is when we build up a new industry, even though it may stand on old marrow, perhaps not so here in Iceland, that it is settled, taking into account all interests, especially nature itself. We look at how we use our resources, in this case what lives in the ocean, and give us the opportunity to fish in the sea, how we have managed to use the ocean's resources via fishing, i.e. It is based on as much knowledge as we can at any given time, based on scientific research. We have to build the fish fire, I think most people would agree on that. We'd like to contribute to growing fish, but I'm one of those people who've wanted to do it slow. I have felt that it was necessary for us to be careful and that we were all based on our actions and all our steps on the best possible knowledge. This is, of course, the interaction between industry and nature protection. In the past, I have claimed in this chair that natural protection is also an economic issue, that there is economic value in securing nature's protection. Half a century ago, we Icelanders were not very trained in nature protection. ▪ Nature protection is a new term, a new subject, a new fact to which our people have to face, when Biir said that the term "Kjaran " is our independent member in the upper branch discussions, about the bill to nature in 1971. By permission of the highest power. I'd like to quote this speech in Kjaran the late Kyran because I think we can learn something from that visionary. In his speech in 1971, he said: It takes time to introduce the global nation of nature's protection reasons, to realize that nature protection is not a thrifty pacified pacifier in the written bar of vitals, with the help of the computer, nor by romantic idealist, but by the vast array of facts of reality. Our generation, and the next one, will perform and will have to perform radical action on nature protection. But the generation to come will not do so if we are finished, which is today, and may wind up without any interruption, being serious, and being concerned about these important matters. I thought of those words of Kjaran the late Kyran when I was reading a bill. Marine and agricultural minister on fish farms because we need to be able to bring good luck to build up this new industry, to use the amazing opportunities of fish farming in harmony with nature. Fish farming and nature protection can work together well. When I review the bill on this page, it seems to me that there is a way of reconciliation, that I try to match different viewpoints, one of those who want to live in fish farms, and the other, to see the opportunities for fish fire, and the other, for those who want to stand around the natural world, to protect the wild, amazing Icelandic salmon stock. When discussing fish farms, I speak primarily of a sea farm that is based on the basis of scientific knowledge and is therefore not a threat to industry but, in particular, in territories that have been difficult for many in recent years and in fact, decades. This is not a riskless operation. As a result, other nations have been allowed to get to know each other. The possible genetic mixture can break down natural salmon strains in Icelandic rivers, salmon diseases, and salmon lice, and disease can worsen with irreversible, tragic consequences to nature, and, at the same time, an important support is removed from Iceland's habitats. The bioavailability of a hunter is of utmost importance in many rural areas in Iceland and is, in effect, a prerequisite structure in many rural areas. How important it is, then, when we take steps to build up this new industry that we look at it and their views as unique groups, individual farmers, individual fishing workers, whose yields are largely based on hunting dishes, that we listen to their viewpoints and take their concerns seriously so that we are not sacrificing their interests. I hope, of course, that we will prosper in overworking this bill, perhaps by some change suggested by a professional health committee and/or other members of Congress. Of course, like other senators, I have the right to make adjustments, even if I do not sit on a professional committee. I hope we can handle this situation in great agreement or at least Fair enough. I think it's important for the industry as such, i.e. The fish fish fire, but it is also important for food farmers and farmers and for those who have enjoyed standing on the banks of the river and catching wild, Icelandic salmon. I hope we can avoid digging holes. I agree with what Dr. Sigurður Guðjónsson, the current director of the Marine Research Institute, said in the 2014 Medieval Report, who was then the head of that institution. He wrote, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: If we are to recover from this land, we need to improve the supply of the fire. Increased research and development must be used as policy measures take place through the species of fire in this country and how the fire will best be paid without taking too much risk on nature. A land - to - earth fire in use is undeniably an option that other nations do not have. As far as I can see, it's the highest bill. A marine and agricultural minister is just another necessary step to improve the legal management of the Guðjónsson fire called by Dr. Sigurður in 2014, thus laying the groundwork for us to make use of the opportunities that are certainly open to us without sacrificing other interests. The course is at least Clear. The highest will. Minister's in position. The decision to build fish farming should be based on the advice of scientists. In effect, the bill can be brought together in a way that provides advice from scientists on how to build fish farming. I think it's important. In an article as the highest. A minister wrote in the Morning newspaper, and this morning he deals with the bill, the physical aspect of it, as he challenges that we need to build on the scientific foundation. We need to ensure that there will be a strong sector, but it will become sustainable and that environmental protection will be guided. In this way, I'm convinced that there will be a great deal of agreement on the construction of fish farming in Iceland. The other thing is that there are many things we don't know. We lack knowledge in various fields and are being proclaimed to promote scientific and research in the field of fish farming. I think it is also important that we focus on this and that we are actually promised that in the future, we will be the chief of the nations in our research and knowledge of their behavior and the environment of wild salmon. V.E.G. President. The fact is that we do not know enough about wild salmon, how it behaves, how natural factors are affected, and for example. how salmon farms, marine farms affect wild salmon, although I fear the negative effects just as we do not have enough information on how sea farms are affected or may have on the feeding grounds of the important fish stocks of our Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Truly, I can agree with much of it. A senator, in particular, said that we would have to make the most of our opportunities without sacrificing other interests. Recently, criticism of salmon farming has been observed in many parts of the world. There are various reasons, however, for the use of toxic chemicals, the use of various viral diseases in farms, and the killing of many, including natural damage from farms and many extremes, in which vast numbers of farmers have escaped and mixed with natural salmon strains, with serious consequences. That's even. because of what has been required for land farming or fire in carefully sealed seashells. I want to ask you why. A member of the council whether he believes that the correcting done on a previously approved bill is enough to prevent us from getting into great trouble and thus taking advantage of opportunities to give up other interests. Counts 'em out. Senator that we need to make some adjustments, or is this enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u71	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm not sure I'm close to answering. A senator like a dog. A senator may have been hoping. I think it's just one of those things. A professional health committee needs special attention. I think there is reason to consider whether the defenses we are using the bill, which are certainly progressive. I hope so, but I have heard the views of men who know better than I do not. I also hear other views that this is even too extreme. They're being obligatory, e.g. The fish farms for internal Affairs. There is a much more extensive role set out in the Food Organization, and it can act in a certain way, if, for example, in a certain way. Pregnancy or other infections occur. There may be other fences that we need to build, and I will not prevent them. Of course you're right. A senator, if I correctly understood that land supply is less risky or almost safe - yet there is nothing safe - just as a fish farming on nonfertilized fish, marine farms in closed vessels, etc. That's better. In some ways we can encourage that development, including When we start talking about remuneration, we can call it the resource charge of the fish fire. The question, then, is how we will be motivated in a built - in manner. True, there are built-in incentives in this bill that are the permit charges. [[The president calls.]] But we can also discuss it when it comes to resource costs in fish farms. Should we call them that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u72	Mr. President. Hv. The job committee has a strong role in reviewing this matter, calling on experts, and evaluating if this is a long way up here. Hv. A senator entered the receipt. We have observed salmon farms with our neighbors in Norway and the Faeroe Islands, but, of course, there are fish farming in many parts of the world. How important it is that we learn from them! I watched a series of live televisions earlier in the winter that was signed under the fish. It covered pollution and problems both in the Faeroe Islands and Norway, and it has been tried to overcome them. I think it's very important that we look at them and learn from them and that when we take a big step in that industry, we see that it becomes sustainable, it's socially important. While it is natural to be fully equipped that entire parts of the country are important to promote employment, economic benefits are also needed for society and government funds, and the environment cannot be damaged. Thus, a professional health committee awaits a major project in the next few days. The permits have been almost free of charge on land, but in Norway they are invited out, and there they run large amounts of money into government funds because the fish farms feel very profitable and desirable to offer them. As I say, the license has almost been free here and what is being considered is that now is by no means what they are doing in Norway. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator, also president of the Economic and Business Committee, does not think we should look to Norway in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u73	Mr. President. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that it is necessary for us Icelanders to look into the experience of the Faeroes and the Norwegians and learn from them, draw correct conclusions from this lesson. We're not supposed to be running into the same problems that Norwegians and Movers are supposed to have. We should have learned from them. That is why there is great joy. The employment committee has decided to go to Norway to get to know one another, so to speak, a Norwegian fish stock. The nomads must have learned much and found answers to many of the questions they needed. A senator will turn to me. I reiterate that I think it's right and we have an obligation and that it was an old man's business, we can almost say that we're going here and building a business, fish farms in this case, without looking into the experience of other countries and taking lessons from it and taking into account what's happening there, whether it's about disease or how the fees are paid, etc. I feel that the main thing right now is that we're not going to start building this sector and take advantage of opportunities that are certainly different from putting in new laws. That's why it's so important that we do this bill with the changes we can agree on before spring. It's very important for the fish farms, but it's also important for the hunter and all the naturalists in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u74	It is also important that we respect the time limit, why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u75	V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure to take this part in the public talk and discuss this important subject. This is not a small issue that we discuss, and the interests are vast in a broad sense. This captures a series of issues involving the nation. It is the professional viewpoints, the credible views, the human life all over the country, and most of all, the environmental views that concern the most. I'll just say the word with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned that we should be based first and last based on scientific findings and studies and established tactics. I'd like to wonder about a few points in this bill, which is actually a third edition of the bill on the subject. This has changed significantly since the introduction of the first bill, but this version is such a cool version of the second edition. I'd like to stick around first. The law on definitions. The 1st Team considers the risk assessment of genetic mix, but genetic mixture is of course the risk of farm salmon mixing with wild salmon. The definition has introduced a new phrase that brings joy and to strengthen the case in which it says: ◯Mat of the quantity of fertile farms that run from fire to sea and can be expected to come in a year in which wild salmon strains are found and where the genetic preparation of farms at wild crops can be determined, taking into account counterweight measures. This point was precisely criticized in a report published last August, a report by marine eco-efficiency team on fish farm policies, since the results of the group were not considered to be counterweight measures. It is believed that counter measures, such as those, for example, can be of great importance, how large the salmon is when it is expanded and monitoring on the river. This may matter. So to strengthen the case, I think this has come in. It's a bar for wild salmon. It is defined here, but for the salmon fire in the West, of course, people have been able to deal a little bit with what is wild salmon and what is not. In this area, likely two years have been covered and thought to be in a delicate area and have wild salmon, but adults and well - versed adults say that in their childhoods, these rivers had little growth and that they were cultivated. That is why the question is, What is the natural salmon, and what is wild salmon? All I want to do is kill on point two. The bill, on the Summit on fish farming as a minister of a four-year ship and as a minister of the Ministry on Fishing. It discusses who are on this committee. This is a five - man committee, and people have found something to do with the fact that this is a meeting committee designed to most of the interests of the stakes. It's like that. no one to call a representative of the environment. Where's the agent? [[Take it up to me.]] Maybe. It also points out whether some abnormal pressure is being made in the Oceanographic Institute and whether this group can be viewed as a pressure group of stakeholders and whether it is legalized by the existence of this pressure group. I would also like to pause at the risk of genetic preparation in Article 7. which says that the Merological Institute should suggest a minister for the quantity of fertile salmon measured in biomass that should be authorized. This point was very much discussed in the report of the marine eco-efficiency Minister from the previous head. This risk assessment was highly accepted and tried. Therefore, it is very important that the methods used are recognized and even carried out by independent agents, not entirely by Icelanders and independent agents, which work with approved models. This model was developed in Iceland, and there was not much experience in it, and it was viewed by men. The bill has nothing to do with it, I think it may be said, how it is handled when a company leaves its operations and their duties to pick up their tools and tools. This may be a misunderstanding, and general legislation may make this duty. But in Norwegian order, this is a very strict matter. It is mentioned in the bill that there are several enterprises, and it spoke of the fact that 30% of financial wealth is the least to be considered as a reliable partner. This legislation assumes that the Food Organization plays a vital role. We know how things have worked out so far, and we remember when an accident hit the west on the beach a few months ago. It took a representative of the Food Organization to get to the west to determine the circumstances. It is worth considering whether to strengthen both the Marine Research Institute and the Food Organization in their roles if this bill becomes a reality. We have, in fact, lived in a situation like the wild West. At times, people discuss matters as if they were in a very early stage of fish farming. It has been with people for some years, and it has grown dramatically, and the pressure on even greater growth has been great. It's bad enough that the law is not done until now, but better than not. Of course, we would have wanted to discuss together important factors, such as the payout for this, and I hope it will be over. However, what is discussed here and in terms of remuneration is a fee that is regularly paid, probably every year, and it uses some coin, if I get it correctly, SDR. I used to wonder why they tie it to some particular coin. Why is there no support for any amount of valuables that come up from the sea? [[For example, do you want to just use the crown?]] Well, don't keep the crown, but some share will keep its value. The crown is fleeting, like the highest. Minister knows. Her gang's been moving a little bit in our lives. Well, I'm not exactly going through this bill anymore. There is a careful discussion of the committee, which unfortunately is not present in this discussion. I hope you'll find it interesting to see how it smells. It may be said in general about this prime minister that there is an all - powerful question about whether a marine farm on Iceland's shores is justified over the threat of a country's life-infested threat. ... tostandbyit. Perhaps that question has already been answered. The factors on which people are concerned are the environmental element and the vital issue that the monitoring, the setting, will be ensured, and the monitoring as done in a civilized state. It is fundamental to have surveillance agencies working at the site of the operation. A respectable president. There are many regional expectations attached to this bill and the future of fish farming. As a society, we need to maintain an increase in valuables, expand exports, improve the standard of living, and in this regard we need to consider our common funds, that this results in our continuing to build up our welfare systems. So in the next 20 years, we have to increase our export value by 1,000 billion. That means about 50 billion a year or 1 billion a week, and of course we can. There are plenty of opportunities, and we have thousands of possibilities and far more potential than we have imagination to present at this moment. One of them is this way, fish farms, salmon farms, and produce the products it produces, but we have to be careful. As I mentioned, we are well along in this. It is estimated that in this country alone, the production of salmon is now available to study 121⁄215 billion and that by the next year it can be 23 billion. This is not considered to be the product of other species, since we are in a variety of other fires, such as in pink, rainbow, Senegal tattoos, and in rice production. This is a promising business path in a number of ways. Now is the most important time when we may look forward to a lengthy income of traditional fishing exports, hopefully it is temporary, and, as with the tourism, we will take progressive and reasonable steps on this path, but it must, of course, be the basis for nature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u76	Mr. President. I think it's interesting with history and 1st. on fish farms represent a local employment committee in Norway, and they do not participate in the discussion even though they are certainly studying fish farms. This may not make the discussion more professional. I would've wanted to hear from the agents who are supposed to be the experts in the industry. But this is fun. I'm beginning to wonder where a legal committee will be sent when the budget bill is submitted to cover 1. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Brjánsson of Brunsson who spoke earlier, of course, that it's all too late, the Klondike Syndrome grabbed hold of the fish fire a long time ago. But better is late than never. The bill's here, and it's fine. We want to see this setting. We want management, management, construction and monitoring to be acceptable, to be clear. Of course, this was due to be long ago. The sonar fire was widespread, especially in the West, long before the regulations were ready. I know that many people are afraid of the evolution and this Klondike syndrome that we've been guilty of as a nation more than once. I remind you of the industry and tourism. It is as if we often do not realize the harm until it is done. We're doing a lot of premeditation. I immediately felt that this was the latest vessel to save the country, the economy of the nation, and the commercial situation as well. I don't think that's the point. I think we need to slowly walk through the door of joy and go through the bill. I'm not against fish farming like that at all, but it's not supposed to be excessive. We are to do this well, and we also need to discuss some conclusion, i.e. some compromises. I've often felt that the discussion is quite extreme, either there's no danger of an accident, it's the safest biases in the world, or it's going to fall apart if one heifer is put down. I think the correct answer may be there somewhere between me and that if we take the time to go through this well, we should consult and other things, we should come to some conclusion that most people should be able to accept. I understand that rural areas in the West and East are very eager to get the sea fire to them as soon as possible. Our geology is such that circumstances on both Eastern Europe and Western Europe are not suitable for farming at all. The fish fire's gonna be there all by sea, that's just the way it is. You see, if we look at travel services, I think there's a potential foreign business in that business. No high - paying jobs, these are not the jobs that will be given young and well - educated people back to their homes in the West or East but will be sought out by non - land workers who accept the salary offered by unskilled employees. This is not only a matter of economy but also a matter of the environment. We have very sensitive and unique nature, and we are responsible for it. She's supposed to enjoy the doubt all the time. I'm going to go through the bill in general because I'm not going to do very exactly what each subject is doing since this is a big and big deal, I'm just going to skate over. I know that accidents, parasites, diseases, and genetic preparations have been discussed. If we don't succeed, there's a danger of a disaster not only in our salmon and trout stocks but also in the marine environment of our entire population. The result is and can be irreversible. Then counter measures don't matter. Then evil is done. This is irreversible. You can't get it back. There is nothing to be done to counteract such consequences. The new constitution assures us that nature enjoys the doubt. As it is today, the dollar is in charge and it seems he is usually in charge. It is a shame that the new constitution is not in effect because it would be a violation of the Constitution to keep nature from enjoying the doubt and to put the dollar or other interests ahead. But the bill's here, and it's fine. Because a minister is present even if the committee isn't, I'm going to get this to the Committee when she comes from her visit to Norway, perhaps the most concerned of my visits. My colleague, my boy. paritaprevir Brjánsson, introduced earlier that, in fact, Arro would be given an added role and role in the preparation and distribution of territories and risk assessments around the country. Then there is the MAST that has the monitoring role and monitoring. I'm really worried about that, because I know that, for example. Over the past few years, major cuts have been under way, and the surveillance has to be okay. I'm not sure that this environmental fund, the calculations that appear in the report with the bill - it's all very hairy - and this sort of plan for them institutions to do their most difficult and extensive role. It is recommended to assess the risks and arrange the areas in agreement with the Organization. We also need to make sure that in order to produce this new role, Edro would not be able to take the staff, the time, and the financial resources from his legal and routine. It must somehow be guaranteed, and it must not be adhered to, that there is enough money to be made to do this. I had every confidence to do this well. Her experts are the finest experts in the world, so I trusted them to do this. But money is needed in order to do so. But I don't trust that. Because if something is hairy and money is not guaranteed by the law, the rule of thumb has been that money cannot be obtained. The bill also shows that this risk assessment, Héturo and regional intervention should take place in consultation with the Organization. Is it clear enough that the last word or in an organization should have the last word? An organization has undisputed jurisdiction on the foundation. What should be the outcome if and when a problem arises? I'm gonna scratch my head just for a second. This is the only accurate thing I'm going to mention because I'm just going to skate like this in general. MAST should be monitored and reported accidents go there. It's just a recipe for some disaster if the funding for the agency goes crazy. Here's another high-priority agency to start up with. It must be good, you know, just so people can start to trust a heifer farm and to make sure we don't destroy salmon or trout stocks, let alone the land base. In the bill, except for this environmental fund that I would like to have further explanations, and even added, there is a very fancy list and information about fines and thefts and conditions to which companies in this business are expected to follow. However, if the surveillance is successful and it is not done, there will be no fines, there will be no leaveup. Then it keeps rolling almost out of control, and some environmental disaster will occur at the next corner. If the budget does not follow the surveillance procedure, all guilty and decontaminated activities will be useless. We might as well let them go if we do not have rigid supervision. We are so stingy when it comes to monitoring and implementation. So I don't believe in this much. I want to secure the funding and secure this check. The need for fines to be applied to surveillance agencies for failing to perform a fine. Without supervision, there is no point in keeping rules. In this case, the fines and thefts of employment are useless if the surveillance is not being performed. But I have full faith in this, and I'm going to speak to a representative of a job committee, even though they are not present for the discussion. I have nothing against fish farming, I think there's a fine addition to the flea, but I don't want us to go out of bed, as I mentioned at the beginning. Let us not start making something of it, and somehow we need to let the fish fire revolve around something other than making money, making money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u77	Hv. A senator says that it is. A professional health committee has been sent. They didn't send her anything. She asked herself to go to Norway for this presentation. That, though, does not always remember what is on the program or who is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u78	A respectable president. We're here discussing matters of utmost importance in the whole big context, important to national interest, important for the settlements below, important for the nature of the country and how we work together strings in development of this sector with the least impact on Icelandic nature. True, the tracks are afraid if you look at past experiences, but patience may be said to be a work for all. Humans have not given up, and today, with the latest technology, much knowledge that has been generated in recent years, and marvelous progress in all the equipment and security around this industry has greatly reduced the risk. This is where we deal with the changes in law set in 2015. I was sitting down. A professional committee, when we gave these laws just four years ago and thought that we were setting up the most strict setting ever set in comparison with all our neighboring countries. We specifically mentioned in the Committee at the time, in a committee program if I recall correctly, that this would have to be almost a living document. Thus, I think the setting must be about these laws, though necessary and of utmost importance, that the sector, the settlements under which we are living, and that all of them are going to have a vision of the future and that we have a solid basis for the future in this structure. Everyone's best interests are that they are successful. There are few jobs where the investment is held for as long as the companies and owners depend on the return of the budget and this sector. During the southern part of the West, salmon farms have already invested in it and in just the last few years at $45 billion. We can relate this to the construction of a national hospital at the Ring Road. We are talking about the amount of money that is far away from that vast investment. The bill is a very subtle way of speaking in the spirit of the one we have spoken to. There are new tools offered in this field for pioneers, so - called risk assessment. It is unknown in other countries that have grown very strong and are very large in this business, and in other countries it is being carried out here. It would be after the next time that the Icelanders take a measure of initiative and leadership in this series as others when it comes to using the natural resources of the ocean. We have achieved some of the best results in the development and development of the European seas in a sustainable way, so we are seen in our fishing system and in the arrangement that has been under way. Some may feel that they are going too far. There's a conflict of interests around here. Others feel too restricted. Such efforts are thus made to follow a course that is confident that the road will be safe and not too high in class. So I can't say in any way the views mentioned earlier that this industry in Iceland is one of my country's values for some Klondike gold adventures. It's just that it's not. You're very slow and careful. This can be seen if we compare ourselves with other nations. It is also a pleasure to see that the success of the Icelandic fish industry already achieves its small scale remains noteworthy and has led to the higher yields in Iceland, as is usually the case with marine products from this country, than in other nations. A company on the West has to form an endogenous ASC environmental witness that is one of the most stringent in the world. They are responsible, and like me, the interests of the past are enormous. So it is in all respects of the tremendous importance that there is a perplexing discussion here. The values they are subject to are powerful in such a broad context. All the countries here with one or another facilities for fishing can be named Scotland, Ireland, Norway, Faeroe Islands, even Denmark, and so far around the world, are increasing in its production. The European Union suggests a tremendous importance for this group of subjects. There is a fund called European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which since 2013 has provided about $300,000 for fish farming in the European Union. In Iceland, there have been no grants of strength, although, as compared with what is in Norway today, the article has already been developed. You may want to consider that, and that may be the next item on schedule at the highest level. Minister of the Sea Scourge, bringing it into the council. At the same time, the research program Horizon 2020 has provided some 35 billion EU strength. It's a quarter of a billion. Today, in Norway, about 1.3 million tons were produced, in 2017, 1.2 million tons. That year we probably had some 10,000 tons in Iceland. In the year 2022, Norway estimated 1.5 million tons. We may be up to 30,000 tons or something like that. In other words, they're going to increase that from 2017, in five years, about 300,000 tons, while we may be talking about 20,000,300,000 tons. Their long - term goal is to produce more than 5 million tons. It is not without reason that this food production is so emphasised on. It's very practical. It's profitable. This food production's carbon track is probably one of the lowest of all the food productions in the world as climate is viewed. In this respect, it is very practical. A world with a growing need for food production is being developed in a most practical way, a very healthy and valuable product. We plan to produce some 130,000 tons in areas where fish farms have been identified in Iceland, Western, Eyjafjörður and Eastern Europe. This may be an issue with the risk assessment. We have already taken away these areas and told them that other areas must not be fished in the sea because of close proximity. for salmon. In fact, I have full faith that technology will be this way in the coming years and even decades that there will be a greater danger, and this may be a business that will be practiced far around the country. 130,000 tons would mean that we would double, or equal, the value of, the most valuable species of fish that we would double. When you look to it, there is not much to do. It is somewhat stable and secure. It is not as dependent on natural rhythms as we have experienced from fishing roads and experience to form in the seawaters where there seems to be an apparent failure. Then we can also look forward to the fact that by this year the export value of the salmon fire will probably weigh up as much as we will survive in the average business and even work at it. It must be considered in this context. The impact on land's population is then a unique capitalite. It's been experienced by everyone who has gone through these areas where this industry is building, and especially on the West, where we have reached the longest, how much fundamental changes are becoming in these communities, which we all have to rejoice over as soon as we want to be careful. In the summer of 2017, the inhabitants of southern Western Europe speak as the Great palarium, i.e. When people began to realize what they were going to do, if they were to move away, if they were to be in the community, they would no longer have to wonder what they were going to do, if they were to move away, something would be happening. It has indeed been a challenge. People began to go to their houses, their gardens, to increase the value of their possessions, which have received a new price compared to what they once had. Many other professions, secondary jobs, have been developed. While I was at the State Department, the Companion Office obtained a report on the effects of fish farming or breeding in the sea. She expected 23 jobs, bones, and derivatives, per 1,000 tons. And if you take the effects of today's manufacturing process, it will be pretty much the same. It's fun to be watching when you get there and see that a company with one truck, traveling in between, and caring for the rest of the world, is now bringing six large railers, and a total of 14 to 15 people to work. The person who had extra work to dive and bottom check and cut out the seabed, our boats, has brought about 15 people's companies and boats around the dive around this. The electrician, who was alone in the area, has five, six people working. It can be counted that long. Our first apartments are about to be built and our demand is increased. We are trying to build them up and answer that call. Then, every day, these valuables are transported east to South Falls, the Pacific, Cheflavík, and Reykjavík. The joy that has been seen in this is that these are now harboring coastal cruises, because commercial reasons are now available for sailing and picking up these valuables and transporting them by sea, so they do not have to go to cars. People on the north side of the West and the East are waiting for this legislation, waiting for a more reasonable, gradual structure to be started in those areas too. It's been a while. We need to answer a call as soon as we try to find our way in the way ahead, but we do so so that we do so so that we can see the reality so that both citizens in these areas and, of course, we can find ourselves in a national setting that pondered the parts for us, the companies building up this vital activity, will have some reason to look out. The situation that has persisted in recent years is inexhaustible and is actually working against us in these matters, and it is possible to make investments. We can't afford it as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that fishing could be of great importance to the settlements, especially in Western Europe and Eastern Europe. Although we know that society will make a lot of money, in the good sense of that word, we do not go into great projects without taking good care of the environment. While you're at it. A senator gave his talk online, and I visited an interview in the head of the early morning on the ever - growing marine minister, describing his concern about pollution from fish farms in Faeroe and the lack of research on marine life. He is quoted as saying that the Faeroe Islands will feed each day as much as a city like Copenhagen does every day. That hit me. Hv. The senator discussed the importance of taking care of all aspects of sustainable development, although he may not have taken it into his mouth, I understood why. A senator like that. I'd like to ask him if he doesn't think it's necessary to do more research and preparation than is suggested on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u80	A respectable president. I completely agree that there are a number of things that need careful attention and attention in this structure. It is important to keep in mind that this is not the only case with society in which the industry is building a lot of money. As I was in the past, we are now in the middle of a conflict and a great deal of national value. It is important that we also think about it and look to the way we are going to increase the cookie so that more is concerned. This is a major part of building valuable jobs. I had heard the comparison of pollution in the Faeroe Islands or the wastelands, since it quotes the waste from the salmon fire. Entries have about 80,000 tons, if remembered correctly, as Copenhagen's waste. Somehow, though, the waste of Copenhagen is solved. We'll figure it out. At least that doesn't mean moving them anywhere or doing something. That's what I think it is possible to do in this case too. I think it's all soluble. At a conference on these matters held two years ago, a teacher who has taught them to study at Hólum in Hjaltadal for decades said: "I am a teacher. He said that he often did not realize the discussion about salmon waste. He said that on land we talked about petting, but in the ocean we talked about pollution. So I think it's all solveable. Copenhagen could clearly fit in on the West, and if the waste of the salmon fire is equal to that plus the small population, I think that's a solution. But I agree completely. A senator that we need to look very carefully to this and to impact on other living things, parenting habits in those areas, marine resources, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u81	Mr. President. I see why. A senator feels that more research needs to be done than is expected in the bill. Wait a minute. A senator to correct me if I have not understood him correctly. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress whether he believes that the surveillance mentioned in the bill is clear enough and whether it is sufficient to intervene before any damage cannot be taken back or has a chain-based effect on other factors. Hv. A senator spoke of a great benefit to the settlements in getting valuable work and so forth. Now it's almost free leave in Iceland. Something's been talking about taking over, and so much money, and I understand that there's a bill about it right now. Would it not be more suitable and more beneficial for society if we were to offer out the permits and look to Norway in terms of this and the benefits of a government fund? Hv. A senator spoke of being called for more welfare services, etc. in relation to collective agreements. Should we not take the most generous way in neighboring lands?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u82	A respectable president. I can be sure that more research is to be done, mainly to continue research, primarily to make sure that we have the tail and the hail in that matter, are walking the sure way. I don't think it's unusual to make an monitoring of salmon rivers in the area, and that's something that the companies like to finance along with other research, and to have heard from them that they are very ready for it, because the interests are really so great anywhere. The benefits are valuable work. The benefits are high in exporting value. They're building in high school, they're in high school in the West. It is a pleasure to see young well - educated people settle in order to build for a longer time. That's quite a change in society. I have not seen such opportunities in rural development and in those areas related to salmon fire. Of course, we must look to the same thing even if we must try to follow the cautious course. Then we will discuss how to get paid and whether to take the step in that direction, as the Norwegian have done. I think there may be some kind of payment on that article, such as so many other professions, but it will be used at the same time, especially during the period of building. I'd also like to see more benefit from living quarters in such areas. We passed a bill last year on planning policies in coastal and marine waters. [[The president calls.]] I wanted the community planning to be reassigned, and they could develop the value of real estate bills from the heifers. So they don't see anything directly of them today. There are many things to look at, including ... toa memberofthecontinents. [[The president calls.]] But the key point is that the currency must not be the factor in inhibiting structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u83	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1051, 645th suit. It contains a bill to correct a change in law No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, and about seal fishing. The bill is prepared at the pro-address and innovation Ministry, which includes marine eco-efficiency and agri-gri-environmental ministers, which suggest some changes to the proposed law of No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, with subsequent changes. It is suggested that legal action be made in order to ensure that a minister can by Regulation establish regulations for seal fishing, including for the registration of seals and the ban or restrictions of traders in the Icelandic Precinct if this is thought to be necessary in the assessment of the Marine Research Agency. With the bill it is assumed that regulations that the Minister may establish in his regulations for seal fishing, including Whether or not they should be banned in the Icelandic Precinct, they will be based on advice from the National Institute of Research, the Agency will conduct segregation and monitoring of the state of the supply and land stems in this country. It's not that much fun, it's not. In regular countings, now every other year, the main basis for the Agency's counseling is the list. The reason this bill is that in counseling the National Institute of Research, there will be some of the following: to the extent that the population of the country is now at the minimum in history. The population has been reduced by 77% since the first stock assessment in 1980 and by the number of counts observed in the summer of 2016, the population had decreased by a dozen percent, by a third, since 2011. In recent published by the Icelandic mammalian species on Iceland's Natural Science Institute, which is based on well - known definitions from the International Environmental Protection Agency, the population is recognized as an acute threat to health. According to the Agency's counseling, action must be taken to reverse this trend in terms of national property. The Agency's advice is that governments are looking for ways to prevent direct fishing and minimise the resources of national fishing. It is necessary that fishing management systems be introduced for seismic purposes, and that all seals will be registered in a legal way. It also stated that research needs to be improved and made available both to the Icelandic and to the International Parliament. The number of species to the extract has also decreased, but since the first stock assessment performed in 1980, such as in the national farm, in 2012 more than half of the population has been reduced, although at the last measurement, something increased. A recent list of Icelandic mammals on Iceland's Natural Science Institute has also been estimated to be at any risk, but it is not in immediate danger, like the domestic population. While the reason for the reduction in the number of seals is not clear, experts at the National Institute of Research believe that direct fishing and fishing have had a significant impact on reduced numbers. Other factors needed to investigate are the effects of water warming, dietary change, pollution, and other factors. There are no total seals in this country and only regulations that can be referred to in certain laws, including of 1 1. track No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, which is actually about seal war. There are also some laws in other laws, including in the book The Book of John, 1281, Rechab, and U.S.A., of June 20, 1849. Furthermore, there are certain laws on seals in the law of No. 30/1925, on Brefjord and kill, and on Code No. 29/1937, about the elimination of seals in Hunaose. It will be mentioned in Article 3. track No. 46/141, on land exchange, seal fishing is counted to potential land for land exchange. However, there is no authority in the law No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing or other laws to ban or limit seal fishing in this country. Clearly, if the fishing ban on the seal of this country is to be a clear legal authority for what does not exist in current laws and/or regulations, as stated earlier. It must also be based on scientific foundations and very convincing evidence. The above reference is suggested to add 11rd paragraph. track No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, a new paragraph that will be 2 mg. where a minister will be authorized to establish in accordance with seismic regulations, including about the registration of seals and the ban or limitation of seal hunts if this is thought to be necessary by the Institute of Marine Research. A respectable president. Other than that, I'd like to refer to the article on the bill. It will give a detailed discussion of its contents. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u84	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'd like to state that I celebrate the very transport of this bill, i.e. it contains and has been authorised to take measures to protect these mammals, the seals. There are laws on protection, peace, and fishing on wild birds and wild mammals, No. 64/1994, where seals are taken along with whales, pets, and farm stocks. I wondered if this discussion was conducted at the Ministry whether it was normal, rather than putting it into a law about salmon and trout fishing that quickly seems not entirely the most mandatory, though it may be a connection, such as I'm sure at the highest level. A minister knows, to move the seals, let's say, either to the wild law or to create specific laws about them. So I pray to the highest. Ministers to enter it, because it's stated in the report that the conference with the Merro, the Town and the National Association of Fishing Associations has been consulted, I think it's listed then, if it's been consulted with e.g. This is a matter of nature and the Environment Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u85	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Yeah, I think it's a long time for the bill, i.e. to have some authority to control this kind of fishing or peace and to evaluate the reason for its use or protection. I am well aware that there are laws on wild plants and mammals, and I am of that opinion and have expressed it to the Environment Minister, we have discussed this slightly, that we should consider the possibility that the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture should be considered, and the Environment Ministry discussed these matters. That's just the best part. There was no special consultation with the Institute of Natural Science. She has, however, appreciated the status of the source, in fact, the same way that a CREEP organization has done. The reason for my attitude and transport in this matter is simply that within the ARM, all the knowledge of what is involved in selling the stock is. The Management Board is a member of the Management Board of Fisheries and Agriculture and the knowledge of the Agency, the National Research Centre. There are no changes in these topics and have not been discussed. This explains how the matter is presented and that seals are placed under this code of law. In fact, they may be at home in someone other than the salmon and trout law, even though the seller has long been the cause of great damage to the two strains.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u86	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I would like to state that I do not question their ability at the Cape to look into these matters and to express myself about them. I come back to what I came into the past, that maybe there would be some problem, if there's any misjudgment of the selenium as a useful stock, and therefore would be more at home under the sea-and-griorithm, or wild mammal, and therefore should be in the Environmental Ministry, and it would be any benefit if the Ministry of Ministers agreed to write together some kind of legislation or group of workers about this stock, especially if they wanted to. But I reiterate that I actually understand the simplicity of doing this because the custody of one secretary and one secretary to finish the case and to get these institutions in was while men think about their course and ponder over the next steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u87	Madam President. The bill presented here, to limit the number of traders in the Icelandic Precinct, to the level of support that is understood, and I'm not going to repopulate it. Men have been concerned for quite a while about the size of the two species of seals here, the country's farms, and the outlets. The size of the trunk has flung, decreased compared with what was even colder times and has been placed on the causes. It is climate change and, therefore, changes to sea, food, temperature, and so on. It is this pastry, often referred to as very little, in fact, and then other fishing, perhaps attempts to scare unfished seals and/or to hunt them and so on. But the main issue is that it is being addressed by a secretary's authority to limit fishing or other measures to prevent unnecessary seismic killing. I'm not going to do it. I'm just going to knit it up. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnlaugsson discussed, and as I and many others have talked about, the necessity of a complete law on wild animals in Iceland, that it is in one hand, i.e. At one ministry, these animals other than the fish in the sea. In Icelandic history, I look to men and animals as living together. It's a big deal about the animals men think are competing with them for abduction, i.e. The eagle, the fox, the seals, the raven, the whales, and other animals, both birds and other animals. The story fears, and now I'm not saying that men are ever heading toward it again, but we know the story of the eagle here and the fox, i.e. Over a long period of time, persecution against these animals by means of various methods. I can name them, and they are no doubt familiar, wearing e.g. Excommunicating a poisonous corpse or using gas during a foxy hunt. I could mention other methods that I don't really want to mention. Sea fishing was practiced here with some uses, but they have disappeared. A good deal of seals is on the move. And the raven has come to be. Why would that be? Then we have 15 species of whales in the ocean near Iceland, which are around and, of course, also fishing on them. I'm not going to go into those psalms, but I'm going to mention what is really the background of this rigid lifestyle. There is an idea that the size of these strains can be controlled with some success, as if it were solely up to man the size of these strains. As a result, people have talked about the need to limit this or the other whale population or a fox or one by catching the animals and not knowing the extent to which it is. In fact, the finest example of the control of a reindeer farm, which is normal in many ways because it is for the first animal of food, and secondly, it is used in Iceland, so only where it is now and perhaps also on Western soil is not possible. Thus, large fishing is allowed on this strain, 4,000,5,000 animals, and more than 1,000 taken each year. If people were going to control the population sizes of these predators, they could imagine what we were here, I wouldn't talk about the whales, which are in stock sizes of tens of thousands of animals. If people could see here fishing and killing, which I don't think any sane man or thinking man would really be interested in. What's in my mind is the idea of encouraging one legislature to the wild animals of Iceland and the sea. There is then a general peace between these birds and poultry and others, and in the sea as well as fishing and/or use will then be permitted by regulations. In all cases, it is based on expert advice. In nature, predators, if we can call them, or predators, seek balance. It is possible for all to recall those words that are often addressed when people are being stumbled by the unreceptive growth of such an institution. When man first arrived here, there was a very healthy flag here. There were foxes and eagles and whales and all mixed up with all the rest. We will see how the real picture is when man comes in and sets in. He must learn to live at peace with these animals and help those strains to find balance, as yet. All strains should be self-sufficient. If they are in danger, we need to be careful to come to their aid. Our responsibility is very high because less rare species of whales exist in Iceland. Here are some of the birds that are either endangered from extinction or on a motif. We've got some land mammals that are very special. Then I mean the polar fox, which is e.g. Extinct in neighboring countries like Norway. They're trying to get the powder back up. We have a global responsibility that these institutions are pretty good, just as we are responsible when polar bears come here and we need to respond. We will, if such legislation exists, can play nature games, we will keep them our rights, engage in healthy fishing, and help institutions to be somewhat balanced. Then I'm referring to various kinds of birds for food, even to whales, as a bat, to domestic consumption, and to reindeer, and possibly to one animal that's here, called a mink. There may be a number of ways to take action, although it is in my opinion hopeless from here to try to eliminate that species in Iceland. This brief speech is right to call attention to the fact that there is a total lack of total legislation on wild animals in Iceland's nature. The species are relatively few, but they can have quite a number of people. We are responsible for the way and treatment of these animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u88	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1092, case No. 646. This is a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993 (recommence of the contract on the working conditions of sheep breeding and price balance charges). The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. Its main purpose is to agree on the change in the contract on conditions for work in sheep raising that were signed on January 11, 2019. This meeting is part of a review of the contract on the conditions of sheep raising from February 19, 2016, and it was signed in advance of the General's approval of the needed law change and the approval of the National Association of Sheep and Iceland's Bavour Association for a vote. An arrangement for the subject ended on March 4th. Among the sheepfolds, the agreement was adopted by 68% of the terms paid. Its goals include: to help increase the balance of markets and market demand by means of sheep products, to increase the freedom of sheep farmers, and to help deal with fluctuations in the outer and inner surroundings of these articles. Emphasis is put on an easy adjustment to altered farming practices or new activities with special adaptable agreements. These are the changes that result from the above agreement, in accordance with government policies that will respond to the problems of long - term sheep farmers. The government has already agreed to cooperate with sheep's sheep 'fortification of the article and with the changes proposed by this bill, endeavoring to improve the work conditions of the article and to increase the market balance, thus preventing a reduction in the price of the product. The proposed changes due to this agreement are found in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, and 7. The bill. There are some adjustments to the 38th floor. The market market is the main element of the change that only payment market transactions will go through a special market and that the state will insinuate the subsidies that do not sell on such markets and will eventually collapse. Changes to 39th pars are also proposed. The law required for intent-to-motivate ratios due to the direct payment of a minister's making a intent-to-be in a Regulation, however, the proportion may never be less than 0.5. It is then suggested that the quality management sector be paid for the prepared sheep market and that, based on a so-called internal kind, which defines the expected need and demand for domestic food from sheep markets. Finally, a new provisional arrangement is proposed. The law turns to adaptable agreements that give farmers an opportunity to quit or reduce sheep's flocks and to experiment with new activities rather than to keep payment according to a sheep contract for three or four years. Adjustment agreements, therefore, are part in achieving a better market balance. There is also Article 1. The bill adds explanations for terms presented in the market agreements but is not defined in the law and in the 5th paragraph. The bill suggests changes in wording according to the terms of a contract on the working conditions of cattle breeding from February 19, 2016. A respectable president. Finally, according to Article 85, it is suggested that a warrant be removed for eutrophication. A custodian in accordance with the decision of the Ministers of the International Business Agency in December 2015 to cancel exports. Export improvements have not been provided in Iceland since and since 1990, and therefore the decision has limited impact here on the country, but following the Ministerial Conference it has been considered to determine whether the prices laid at the current 85. g. A is considered to be export improvements. In Norway prices have been rated to some extent by exports, and the Norwegian government has announced that they will be removed by 2020. In accordance with local legislation, a minister is permitted to facilitate the balance of the export of the products containing agrienvironment schemes. The balance is different between national reference prices and the foreign reference price of any ingredient used in the manufacture of the product. Remuneration is made by means of financial contributions at a time, but in 2019 C.E., money is equal to 2.5 million and it becomes clear that the amount is negligible. Thus, the price balance has been maintained only when exporting candy containing e.g. milk powder, but only two or three companies have used that authority in the past few years. Since prices are negligible, as well as measures taken to reduce milk powder for food production in this country, it is estimated that prices in agricultural terms are unnecessary. This reimbursement requires much toll the government, the Ministry, and even the applicant's work to meet the requirements for reimbursement for the low amount intended for this on the budget. As has been attributed, the primary objective of the bill is to agree on the changes in the work conditions of sheep breeding that were written under 11 January. and adopted the vote of the sheep farmers on March 4th, as I mentioned earlier. The proposed impact of the changes in sheep's environment proposed by the bill is thus contributing to the steady supply and demand of the market by means of sheep products, increases the freedom of sheep farmers, and facilitates adaptation to changing agricultural practices. The contract contains changes requiring changes in existing agricultural laws and as a result can only be changed by the sentence of the law. Thus, the results of the approved bill are considered to be a particularly helpful contribution to sheep and consumers, where changes contribute to the balance of supply and market demand by means of sheep products. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and I'd like to refer to the report that follows it. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u89	A respectable president. Here it is, like the highest. A minister has traced, a bill that mainly concerns the working environment of farmers, and is based on agreements, contracts, and therefore may not be much to say about its subject as such. What I'm wondering is what I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary to see whether the died are, or are there changes in the work environment of the products of sheep breeding to further strengthen the environment of farmers. I'm asking if there's any action on the schedule or in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u90	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It is true that this is based on an agreement rooted in the work of a collaboration group, as requested in the original agreements. This is the first agreement made, work on the cattle part is completed in the consultation group, but we are not discussing the implementation of this change, and we are starting to discuss the gardening and the Framework Convention. I expect those parts of the deal to go faster than the sheep deal, since the problem is the most. That question as reason. A senator comes here, a respectable president, is more likely to be directed to the demolition stations himself. These are companies who are free in their markets and the government has no authority, in fact, to predict or to give instructions on how to conduct their work. I know, however, that the product centre has been - I have discussed with them the application of sources in accordance with existing laws, which can be said to be in some way imperfect, but until changed, they are the legal course that needs to be followed - preparing to work together in ways that are different from what is being done today. I know that they've at least written the Contestance Commission for this subject. I don't have information about how that case works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u91	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, as well as the interpretation that he considers the sources of the products for cooperation and to strengthen his position as a few within the present legal environment, would have to be considered if it were to be revised once the environment has been tested as it is now. Am I right? We are here dealing with the working environment of the sheep trade. Sheep management has rarely or never been able to pay 100% for one household. In the same way, however, sheep farming has been a foundation all around the country. So it is important to know how sheep can play with other commercial creations outside the country, such as forestry income, etc. Many sheep farmers are also forest farmers, some of them both cow farms and sheep farms, others with travel services and sheep farms, and so we could count for a long time. How do you view this picture? If we can say so, does it look at how one branch in a rural area can strengthen others?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u92	A respectable president. The first thing about interpretation is why. A senator's answer to me: The questions raised by the Department of Societyship for cooperation will always be the same, whether they enter the Senate Hall or to the public institutions that handle it. It is the question of how to return the profits, the profit, of increased cooperation with farmers and consumers. This needs to be answered before going any further. But in the present legal environment, the way through the SEC is, in fact, the course that these matters must take. He's totally late, but I don't know why. Others must answer. I agree that the flocks of sheep as they have been needen a considerable amount of money to survive a whole household. We see in the composition of the sheep industry, the number of farms, the number of farms, the size, etc., that this is more and less connected to another job. But I'm totally against the fact that the market agreements and agreements for the sheep trade are to be given to the country's settlements. We cannot do things that way. I'm saying that herding is fundamental to some areas, but more factors have to come in. As we look to this bigger picture, we must be confident that each of these factors will reflect the basis of a plan. We cannot do so through extraordinary contracts, such as those mentioned above. for the support of sheep raising, to make the requirement there, to be the means for keeping out the borders. It'll never be like that. It is much closer to working on a comprehensive foundation that covers more issues, such as transportation, education, and culture. You need to link it all up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u93	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the speech. I'm not gonna stall this case. I just wanted to get to a few points that I didn't think were in response. First, of course, it is true that the answer was the highest. A minister, to a contract with a unique profession, whether in sheep or anything else, cannot maintain urban development in the country, but, as a minister pointed out, such agreements can be part of a larger whole. Hence, it is important that the whole community be examined by some kind of collective and focalal policy. Therefore, I have felt that the Department of Presidency has been a long way of speaking that there is no place in a community case, which runs across all other departments, including transportation, agriculture, etc. For this fine thing I'd like to say first, if I recall the correct consent to the sheep farmers of the agreement, 70% of the approved agreement that must be considered very good. The contract is very supportive. It should be welcomed and congratulated by the Minister. It also means that some smaller portion of them are unhappy about this and, of course, should be taken into account or taken into account what it is. A small amount of criticism has been observed previously in this hall at the highest level. Ministers that it took a while, and I think that perhaps in many respects it was legitimate criticism, but no doubt a minister might have some compensation to have it taken some time. But it's a good thing the deal is good. Indeed, the products can bring together cooperation and consultation when considering exports and marketings abroad. This, however, is done only to a small extent that is truly sad and a problem at home. What may be lacking, and we have discussed in this Assembly Hall, more than one matter of Congress, has been written on and even delivered, there is no authority on national cooperation and economy. That's what I think we need to do. As we have seen, there must be a source of action. in milk production. According to that, I'd like to mention innovation. We have seen great innovation in food production, both in fishing roads and in parts of the agricultural industry. I'd like to mention dairy especially, since new products are being developed all the time. The sheep farm or agriculture other than carnivores, I'm just gonna put it that way. The meat has been a little behind in this regard, but we've seen an example of developing it in the right direction. And most important, farmers and Maize have been developing processes and ideas to increase value, improve quality, and, in fact, to produce innovation and innovation in the agriculture system. For example, it is enough to name the agricultural mall. It has recently been introduced to a so - called business speed, where pioneers can come up with their ideas and be helped to implement them. All of this aims to strengthen the foundations, to strengthen the agriculture, especially those involved in carnivores and carnivores. The farmers of the country are an enormously important nation. They are important today, and they become more important in the future because the production of food, I don't talk about healthy and good food, will become one of the factors that will separate future countries from other countries, i.e. To produce goods, energy in their citizens, by means of environmentally good ways. I believe that Icelandic agriculture and local farmers will be able to get up. However, it is thought - provoking, and it only comes to what I mentioned earlier as to the innovation, that we are still seeing this wonderful product, and that there are various explanations of it, almost in frozen gauze bags, in the huge markets sold at a quiet price, really. People can buy quality meat at the same price as one large pizza and feed their families. I don't think that's fair to me. We need to work it out better. Other than that, I thank the Minister for his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u94	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct measures for the efficiency of communication networks at high speeds. The bill includes the introduction to the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 61 of May 15, 2014, of measures to reduce the cost of building at high speed of digital communications networks, as well as changes in telecommunications laws and military and communications laws. The building and rebuilding of the fiber - optic network is one of the government's main objectives regarding the easy communication goals. Reflects this goal, including in a proposal for a resolution of telecommunication policy for the 2019-2033, now approved by the General Assembly. Since 2016 the government has been working on increasing access to fiber optics to rural areas throughout Iceland's project lightrelated, which is under the control of telecommunications funds. The objective of the government's communications sector for the whole country is that 99.9% of legal agencies and businesses have access to 100 Mb/s wireless network connections at the end of 2021. Farmers have directly led the structure where contributions from stocks have helped the worst - set rural areas, most expensive areas, removed, and so forth, in this way. For many years, telecommunication funds have contributed to the cost of building communications timbers in market areas. Over the years much has been achieved in the spread of fiber optics in the region, but the unsolved opticization of most settlements outside the southwest corner remains. Then there is the spread of fifth generation remote networks (5G) across the corner, but its structure may have new challenges. The bill for discussion is designed to facilitate the development of high - speed communications networks by contributing to the joint use of certain existing material structures and by providing more efficient structures in new material infrastructures possibly, allowing the cost of spreading such networks to be potentially lower. The reductions in the construction of high - speed communications networks are believed to support the government's ambitious aims on national cables, growth, competitiveness, and production. During the implementation of the bill, the directive was thought to specify only minimal integration, but countries are free to implement measures beyond the minimum criteria specified by the directive. Then the directive also contains selection regulations, but in the processing of the bill, it was especially thought of the rules that would create a moderate amount of space in action and not add additional burdensome obligations to the parties involved in the directive. The bill includes the members defined as network operators. A term of this takes even to companies offering material infrastructures intended to provide services related to production, transport or distribution of electricity, including street light, heating and water, including waste disposal or cleaning, and drainage systems, and transport workers, road, port and flight selection. Then they reach the responsibilities and rights specified by the bill to the materialistic infrastructure, as defined by the directive, i.e. a network component designed to host other network components without self-recognizing any active components of the network, such as straws, mollusks, plumbing, wells for monitoring, manop, boxing, building or access to buildings, antennas, towers, and poles. Cappas, including a black fiber - optic cable, in English called Šdark Fiber Einarsson, as well as network factors designed to deliver water are not a basis for building in the sense of the directive and thus fall outside the standard range of the bill. In short, there are key elements of the bill: To ensure access of communications companies to certain minimal information about the network's existing material infrastructure and, on the other hand, the present or the intended authorised ministries in order to explore the potential for harmonization of existing infrastructure or coordination and the rapid development of high speeds of communication networks. To enable telecommunications companies to carry out a field inspection of specific areas of material infrastructure. The obligation of the operators to establish all legitimate communications agencies for access to their material infrastructure under reasonable conditions. Special responsibilities are given to the head of a network that is directly or indirectly involved in the construction of workers that are partly or entirely funded from public funds. As a general rule, such persons allow access to their material infrastructure or intended activities as long as such a co-ordination request does not result in additional costs, such as tata, the management of the procedure and the application for co-ordination should be submitted at least month for a leave-up application. Directors of networks will be authorized to negotiate communication companies with the mobilization of workers with the development of high-speed communications networks in mind. According to the bill, the Post and Communication Network is given both the role and the means to encourage this development, such as a database on telecommunications, the sharing of information and the guidance of parties, and the ruling authority in controversies. Extensive consultations were given to stakeholders during the work of the bill. In particular, economists disputed over the plans to separate black fiber optics and introduce the term material infrastructure from the directive, according to the words. Having agreed with the Post and Communication Office, the Ministry's assessment was that the publication of the European Directive should not interfere with competitive communication environment. If such a arrangement should be made, i.e. to bind to the public or to the public only public public hands, a well-founded analysis of the impact of such measures on competitiveness and the financial interests it will take into account the possible social benefits it might bring. This is the main challenge for those who have given a review of the bill. The preparation is now under way for the induction of the EU's so-called communication package, which includes a complete review of all national communication protocols. The first analysis is carried out in the work being started. In view of this, it was my opinion that it was not time to expand the concept of a material structure to a black fiber. Finally, there is a chance that there will be a change in telecommunications laws and laws for the post - communications agency. These changes are aimed at harmonising the usage of directives and communications laws, securing network hearings to telecommunications and mail committees and enabling the mail and communications agency to build a digital database across all national telecommunications. In this case, an expansion of the current provision of communications laws is concerned by the database, which today is reserved for wireless transmissions only. Madam President. I have explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u95	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a cruise protection law, No. 50/2004. The bill suggests that changes in the marine protection laws intended to promote the protection and effectiveness of the law's laws by measuring the permission of a U.S. O.A. to apply day-care laws, they do not meet their obligations in accordance with the regulations of the law and, on the other hand, measuring the penalty of violations of a ban on entering a sea - control area without permission. By the changes made on the Marine Protection Act last June, the rule that a person would not be allowed to enter a seafaring area without having proper authority was legally established. The primary objective was to reduce the attempted burglary of the marine environment and of a ship. However, the environmental and transport committee made comments to the penalty frame proposed by such violations in the law-enforcement bill. The Council has now, having agreed with National Institutes of Iceland, State prosecutors, and State Marshals, revise their proposal to punish them for violations of the Marine Reservation and is here simply suggested that the penalty be conformed to the penalty frame that is already laid upon by other violations of the regulations of the law. There is clear evidence that this poses a threat to security, especially in sailing protection, when people come into the seawater area. Therefore, it is imperative that such offenses be handled clearly in our legislation and that their sensitivity to punishment is clearly defined. Clearly, even more serious offenses are also involved in the use of general penalties, so it may be more severe to be punished on the basis of their laws. It's all right, Mr. Honorable President, in a paper that comes with the bill. A respectable president. One of the objectives of the bill is to strengthen the resources of a walking agency in order to force the legislation on the marine protection and regulations set up on the basis of them. For this reason, this bill suggests that the Agency is authorised to resort to day-to-day surveillance activities. It is a targeted way to enforce the law, allowing the Agency to take better care of its own role. In particular, the proposal is due to statements made by the ESA, the EFTA monitoring centre, on the Agency's failures under the legislation on the control conditions. Madam President. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that after this discussion it will be treated and referred to as follows. Environment and Transport Committee and then 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-07-77.u96	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize consumer decision committees. The bill presents a total law on the solution of consumers'conflicts outside courts. The objective of the bill is to ensure consumers access to efficient and professional court treatments to resolve disagreements with the segregators. The bill includes the introduction to the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2013/11 of 21 May 2013, on the solution of consumers' issues outside the courts, and on Regulation No. 524/2013, on the solution of consumers'issues through electronic management, as well as the procedure. The bill outlines a quality and recognition system for judges outside the courts. It is suggested that the judges can apply for and gain the approval of a minister, meeting the standards for order and court treatment. If the issue is not heard by an arbitrarily accepted judge, the consumers may request a ruling on the existing legal committee of products and services. This arrangement aims to ensure that there is always a personal legal dispute with an outside judge. The bill also suggests the establishment of an electronic field for the release of issues outside the courts across the border. The consumers of the European Economic Area should be able to use the electronic field to initiate a judicial hearing with an outside court for a business they've had in another state. In addition, the bill holds minimum requirements for the treatment of approved judges and the intelligence of traders to the consumers about who can be sought if there is a difference. As suggested by the National Institutes of Health, the Commission's Committees are operating and monitoring information to consumers. It suggests that the European consumer support in Iceland arranges for a job in the electronic field. One of the objectives of the bill is to ensure more efficient consumer protection through improved compliance with decision-making solutions. Today it is common for companies not to consider the Free Service Committee, even though the result is a consumer profiteer. The bill suggests that the decision of the Committee will be permissible unless its sellers declare within 30 days that they are unconvinced. The bill provides the basis for preserving and strengthening the system of free ruling committees that have developed in Iceland in recent decades. It is fundamental that governments have the longest laws to stand outside disputes that can be resolved between them and that issues will be resolved with the highest level of expertise. The bill is supported by consumer protection in Iceland. It is an important element of consumer protection that consumers have access to simple, efficient, and inexpensive ways in every area of business to solve business issues. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee for discussion.
