ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u1	It's scheduled to have a lunch break at noon. The ones mentioned above can also benefit from their ministry. K. 13 Visiting the president of Germany at the General Assembly Hall, he is expected to arrive at the center of the week. 13,45, where he will be addressed by the President of the Generals. It's from the time it's been here. 14-115 will be suspended at a council meeting again for a council meeting. That's the President's vote. 11th
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the law on private treatments, criminal treatments and other laws (seminence and conformity rules etc.) ... froma greater part of the General and Education Committee. Because of the growth of the situation and in some terms in this matter, I think it is proper to review the opinion presented here. The committee has discussed the matter and received to Bryndís Helgadóttir and the Company of the Heiðar Þorsteinsson of Justice, Benedikt Bogason from the Court of Justice, Þórir Guðmundsson and Þorleifsdóttir Téra Þorvaldsson from the National Institute of the Journals of Hédír 2, Visis and Bydís, Friðjónsdóttir of the State District Attorney, Björg of the local prosecutors, Hjálmar Jónsson from the Bank of Iceland's Journal, Alma Ómarsdóttir and Alda Jóhannesdóttir from the Reporters, Heiða Magnúsdóttir of the Children'sundóðóðsson of the ChildrenRakel, Þorbergsdóttir, Heiðar, Rabjöránsson, Rabjöránsson, Góránsson, Gónarsson, and Raiturnarfjörnarsson of the United States. The committee received reviews from the Children's Institutes of Children, Iceland's Journalist Association, the Court's Court, the Association of Newsmen, the News Office of the U.S.A. The bill suggests adjustments in the laws on private handling, No. 91/1191, No. 88/2008, but also with legal requirements for the extra profits of the state's funds, No. 88/1991, Child Welfare, No. 80/2002, fix a restraining order and expelling from home, No. 85/2011, and court law, No. 50/2016. The changes made are primarily aimed at clarifying, harmonizing, and streamlining laws dealing with judicial hearings. With paragraphs 2 and 18. the bill is presented with a change in 1 mg. Count 9. Treat of private and 1 mg. 1 1. the treatment of criminal cases. The most important change proposed is the avoidance of streaming a sound or image from Congress or of sending a periodic report from there. The greater part points out that, according to current law, it is already forbidden to record or take pictures in Congress unless a judge gives an exception to the ban. In the opinion of the Committee, it may turn back if it is forbidden to take pictures or audio recordings, but it is allowed at the same time to stream a sound or a photo from the council. The committee held the view that with the bill it would be to impose further restrictions on the media as a war against the principle of intervening in the hearing. The report on the bill shows that the ban on a time-report of reports is intended to trust the security and ensure that witnesses'testimony does not appear to show off the testimony of those who have already reported, that it is vital that a judicial Rapporteur does not know what others before him would say. The majority of the data shows that this will be ignored if witnesses can monitor the reporting of others outside the court on the air. The majority believe that the interests involved in these topics are far more important than those involved in reporting what is being said in the reports of the times. It should be maintained that nothing in the proposed changes should be avoided by the media during the period since judicial hearing, including who is reporting. Then they will be free to report what was reported on when it is finished. The majority do not consider the above to be against the rule of hearing, nor is it to limit the possibility of media or others to attend church and to observe what is going on there. The reason why the principle is that conferences are subject to hearing sounds is especially so that the public and the media can provide legal hearings and the handling of judicial cases is transparent. The majority feel that this above is not a threat because access remains open and the media is free to observe and report the progress of judicial matters. It is also not to increase the authority of a judge to order that a council stand before closed doors. The committee has also been suggested that there be no restrictions on the reporting of judicial, imaging, audio recording, etc. On the other hand, if such restrictions are considered necessary, the judge can place such restrictions on the situation in exceptional circumstances. The majority believe that such a course involves a fundamental policy change. The bill is based on legal safety issues and the importance of handling judicial cases without outside interference or any potential risk to court treatment. Then it came to the committee's view that it was unclear what would happen to be a contemporary legend. In view of the greater part, what it means can be further defined. The majority of these points out that the most important thing in this relationship is, perhaps, V. Not the type of media, but the content of the information and the timing of the publication so that if the report is presented in a report before it is completed, it would be a history-rehistory, no matter what medium it is being done. This suggests that if a news item is released at the end of a report or a news reporter is broadcast on a live broadcast and what was presented, this does not constitute a review. The majority of the rights to include this is only to address reports, should not be prevented from reporting which party to report, for example. In view of the above, however, the greater part is considered to be the right thing to change the wording to paragraphs 2 and 18. the bill in accordance with the above views so that instead of using the term "time-reverent," it shows that it is forbidden to report what the defendant or witness reports during the period of the report. At the meetings of the committee, it was noted that with 25 p.m. The bill would be assumed for an electronic lawsuit to the National Court, but it would not be opened to the Supreme Court, such as 29. The bill. A major part of the report shows that, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the institutions of the Justice Department are working to establish an electronic system between all institutions of the justice system, i.e. It's called a court martial. This work is now a map of how to implement electronic language within the justice system, and it is concluded by this group that there is a possibility for such activities to be opened up in lawsuits to the National Court. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important to have experience in the above conventions and to evaluate it before any further changes are made to this direction, such as the use of electronic language to the Supreme Court charges. So the rest of the part doesn't suggest any further changes. In the treatment of the case, it was noted that independence from judges would not be guaranteed if they were officers of the courts and thus had dealings with appointed judges. The majority of the components take the front row and suggest that the product changes to 3 mg. Thirty-nine. judicial procedures so that the officers of the courts cannot be designated as specialists. In the treatment of the case, we discussed the maximum duration of custody, the use of telecommunications, and the motion that permission can be applied to prosecute the National Court's decision to the Supreme Court when confirming the decision to disclosure. Then, too, the requirement to lead a man arrested for judgment within 24 hours of his release was discussed, as stated at 94 C.E. the treatment of criminal cases. The facts would have been designed to further increase the effectiveness of judicial cases. According to the Committee, there are factors that are too important or that require further implementation. According to this, the majority were directed to the Ministry of Justice to take them to a closer look as soon as possible. In addition, the majority contributes to a shortening of the bill's name and minor fixes. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following changes: 1st Instead of the words, let us send a parallel review of a series of reports in 2 gr. and 18th pars. coming: reporting on the records of the defendant or witness during the hearing. 2. Section 16. put it this way: Instead of the words, ◯in the district of 190 C.E. The law comes: for the land's right. 3. A team 24. Put it this way: Instead of the words "to one's name, "" her social security, " and "home, " to the former proverb 1 mg. 8 mg. comes in: his name and social security number. 4. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Endnote 2 mg. Twenty-eight. The law goes away. 5. After 45th. A new article, as follows: At 3 mg. Thirty-nine. And the law shall add a new proverb, saying, It is unauthorized that the officers of the courts shall be appointed to the congregation of special judges. 6th The bill's headline is as follows: Cells to correct a law on private treatments, criminal treatment laws, and other laws (actual rules, etc.).Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, who was absent from the case, signed with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under this view, Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, Birgir son of Ármannsson, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking the author of the major section for a good and thorough review of the committee opinion of the larger section and the suggestion for adjustments. It is proper to say at the outset that the smaller part of the committee I recommend agrees with the committee's list of sections and the changes it suggests, with the exception of the minority opinion, sections 2 and 18. The bill on recordings, audio recordings, and scans at a trial. That's where the smaller part wants to go another way. Of course, the debate over whether or to the extent that audio recordings, shoots, and contemporary reviews of the court should be allowed is of great importance. There is a perspective on the criminal rights and immunity of the defendants, on the other hand, on the part of the people and on the importance of the official and transparent judiciary and the free media in the public use. In Iceland the principle is that judicious recordings of court records are forbidden, but a judge is permitted to give an exception if specifically indicated. With paragraphs 2 and 18. The bill changes these rules so that there will be no sound, image, or state of what the defendant or witness will report during the hearing. Under these circumstances, the lesser part is a reason to reconsider the purpose of these judicial decisions and to determine whether or not they will meet the public and accessible judicial requirements and the 70th stipulations. The Constitution that a court body is subject to hearing unless another law is determined by a judge to observe goods, universal regulations, government security, or the interests of a language. In this context the Committee believes that legal restrictions at the same time can be ensured. This could be achieved by the law on private handling, No. 91/1191, No. 88/2008, the source of audio and video footage and the stream will be made to rule out a principle and a prohibition against such a practice rather than make an exception. According to my section, the approach to meeting both the aims of the constitution and the general average of legislation is better. Such warrants also agree that the principle that a court body will be subject to hearing sounds, as the public and preconceived handling of cases before the court is important and the premeditation of law. In view of the fact that much of the public does not have the means to attend a judicial hearing, e.g. due to physical or social circumstances, and, however, because of receiving a hearing for the court, there may be issues, e.g. In regard to the evaluation of testimony given by judges, which cannot be determined merely by reading judgment after he has fallen. Here we will also consider that the phrase "hearing " can have other and broader meanings on the basis of social and technological changes, perhaps in smaller and isolated communities. In addition, the lesser part believes that a principle that generally prohibits the nature of the case will inevitably result in the need for video and audio recording not to be prohibited in the council for more than a specific reason. In discussions with comparable legislation in the upper U.S. Senate, there have been other factors. There is a view that there may be a correlation between the trust that the common people have for the foundations of the state and the official and clearness of its activities. Hence, the increased access of the media to tribunals by recordings or contemporary reviews might increase people's understanding of the role and activities of the jurist, resulting in the loss of public trust in the court. The minority is supported by the general view that the public's work should be as clear as possible and that such arrangements are likely to increase the confidence and confidence in it by the public. So the smaller portion suggests between 2 and 18. The bill will be changed in the way that anyone is allowed to record and take pictures in Congress, as well as to allow sound and image to flow from Congress and report actual testimony unless the judge specifically chooses to forbid the above mentioned. A judge's authority to ban recordings or flows, in view of the less part, is designed to fulfill the regulations of the Constitution and the principle that a judicial hearing is subject to a judicial hearing. At the same time, such a thing ensures that a judge can protect the well - being, the universal rule, the security of the state, and the interests of the people in special circumstances. In addition, an adjustment in the memory of the part is designed to improve the freedom of the media and to support their importance in open and democratic discussions. Therefore, in view of the above, the memory part suggests the following changes: 2.g. put it this way: 1.mg. Count 9. The law says, "One. " It's allowed to record and take pictures in Congress. At the same time, it is permitted to stream a sound and image from the council and report what the defendants and witnesses report during the hearing. If there is a particular possibility or there is a threat of a legal case, a judge may prohibit the above. If audio recordings or images have been recorded in Congress despite the ban on the court, it is forbidden to publish audio or images. The same is true of the judge's prohibitions at the release of audio and video recordings of the court's verbal presentation. The violations against this paragraph involve fines unless there is a greater penalty under other laws. In the same way, 18th degree changes. The law and the word do the same. Under this minority opinion, the person standing here, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u4	A respectable president. I review the Committee's opinion of a synopsis proposal for the Children's Protection Programme for the Health Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of visitors, and reviews were received. from Children's Health Services, the Children's Health Committee, the Social Science Institute of Iceland, the Family Committee for Mosfells, the State's Analysis and Advisor, the National Developmental Committee, Percontinental Protection, the Union of Iceland, and the Children's Agent. An interpretation proposal for child protection implementation is proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Childbearing, in accordance with Article 5. child protection. According to 2 mg. Section 5. Its legislation is responsible for child protection policies and in accordance with Article 3. Section 5. will serve the Minister of Social Affairs for the General Management Board for a four-year strategy at the end of the district election. Social Services, Children's Institutes for Children's Health and Child Welfare Committees are expected to work under the programme with the objective of ensuring adequate training conditions for children and that children who live in unsatisfactory circumstances or risk health and development will be provided with the necessary and effective assistance. The reviews of the proposal were that a key policy positive if it had been identified as a suggestion of something that might have been taken in a definitive way. The main factor, then, was the cost - intelligence and practicality of the project. The Committee reviewed that the implementation program was a part of a global review of children's affairs, not a complete plan on all the actions to be carried out in the coming years, but, in particular, a list of measures to promote the role and image of the Children's Institutes and Children's Health Committees. As suggested by the proposal, children's affairs are developing an overall vision, as well as a parapolitical Senate committee working on a review of child protection law. It was noted that there was special emphasis on parental training, early intervention, support to babies in foster homes, as well as a clearer evaluation of treatment results, thus ensuring follow-up. The committee claims that the step taken in the implementation program is one of the first steps taken toward a new overall vision of children's affairs. The Commission suggests that although it has been noted that some aspects of the policy have not been taken, they will be considered at a later stage of the project, e.g. with the full reexamination of child protection legislation provided and expected in the proposal. The Committee then considers the action to be undertaken to improve the effectiveness and follow-up of child protection as the basis for achieving the overall vision. Therefore, the Commission does not believe that there is a reason to begin a financial review of the specific aspects of the strategy, but it emphasizes that its review will be continued within the Ministry in view of the experiences it brings. Comments from the State's Diagnosis and Advisory Centres and National Developmental Funds pointed out that there was a shortage of experts in the affairs of disabled persons and that the proposal was not taken into consideration for the delicate position of disabled children. It was noted that disabled children were particularly vulnerable to violence and that they would suffer more discrimination than other children. It was noted that the pressure on the parents of disabled children was often intense, as well as that many of them themselves had on neurological abnormalities. The committee agrees with this criticism. According to the Committee, it would have been better to consult the disabled people's interest groups with the policies presented here. Then, in view of this, the Committee would have allowed particular attention to be given to projects involving disabled children. The Commission aims at the Ministry of Social Affairs to specifically improve this incoherentness in cooperation with the other executives of the programme when the measures of the programme will be implemented. In particular, it is important to ensure consultation with disabled persons in the implementation of the A teamwork programme for cooperation and overall vision of the paediatric and other teams in which further partners are expected to be involved. The committee also emphasizes the need for support for disabled babies and a better education for foster parents on child disability. At that point, it was noted that in several places in the motion itself there are various explanations and texts that are not carried out in themselves. The committee suggests a number of changes that make up this aspect of the proposal itself, as they are clearly outlined in the report. Then the 1st issue says 1st. A-men and 1st issue. The 4th E team must be set for specific sequences. The committee suggests a change in wording to emphasize that action is not only a policy but a measure of effort, which will be specifically involved. Finally, the Commission points out that the proposal assumes that the Management Board will review the implementation program for the first time on June 1, 2019. The committee suggests a change in what will be done on October 1, 2018, as June 1 has simply passed. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be adopted by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature is under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " The members of Halldóra Mogensen, Director Ingi Kristinsson Kristoff, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ingi In Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönóttir, Brjánsson, Guðnsson Ignsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, as noted earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u5	Mr. President. We all need to approach climate, not as a special class of topics, which are sometimes promoted but, more often, not to be overlooked, but to focus on sustainable development based on integration of environmental, economic, and social factors. This particular bill is a step in that direction. I'd like to draw special attention to the fact that it is mentioned in Article 3. Section 3. to ensure that in the climate council the representatives of the industry are represented, along with representatives of the university, rural and environmental organizations. It emphasizes that both employee and professional drivers are involved. This situation is clearly a step in the right direction because in view of what we already know about the impact of climate change on natural resources, on food security, on employment, on farms, and on our lives, the ancient fact is that if we are not successful in these matters, nothing else is important. In view that this is a step in the right direction, I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u6	Mr. President. I'm glad that we vote on this matter today. There were some changes in the case that came into the committee and improved the case, and I welcome the results achieved by the Environment and Transport Committee. These include the key proposals that environmental Ministers will be obliged to present a regular report to the General for the climatic status of the Council Hall. A representative of the largest pay force will sit in the climate council. The definition of the term carbon balance is consistent with the Commission's climate policy, and most important, it was agreed that the country's rural obligation to establish climate policy. It is a step of progress and a positive step that we all take as one effort to cope with the biggest disaster we face, which is climate change. I'm celebrating this case, and of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u7	Mr. President. It's a bill. It's a bill. It's a bill. It's a bill. It's a bill. The Environment and Resource Minister intended to strengthen the management and management of climate and to sharpen the various laws of the law, which have been in place. Environment and Transport Committee. The climate is the largest of today's issues, the most important of our times, and it will not be handled in a single moment by a single letter of law. Rather, it is that such a matter needs to be under constant pressure. The bill was a few disappointments, must be heard. Some even felt that it was better at home, but the one quoted here feels that it is better to act rather than do nothing and wait for bigger steps. I count at least more likely to have a problem. The environment and transport committees listed in sections only appear as a transport committee on the basis of priorities of the Commission take several steps similar to those currently taking - but larger steps necessary; however, it is better to accept and be on this rather than reject because you want larger steps. That's why I'm going to vote with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u8	Mr. President. I'm going to describe my pleasure with these legislations that legalize countless objects, plan of action by means of action and the fact that the Commission and public organisations should set up climate policy as well as rural society, and that they do so by the end of 2021. A report for the General after practical and regular application of climate status and more, and I do not talk about a clear focus on adaptation to climate change, including with the work of a so-called climate fund. The condition of the climate council and its reform is also in this bill, and, of course, I'm paying it my vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u9	President. This is a major and important subject, unfortunately, too traditional, i.e. to create more frames, more management, more regulations around things without any demonstrations of success. Sadly, too often this approach has yielded no results, even resulting in negative effects on climate. It was recently noted in Britain that the financial secretary of its country declared that his actions on climate - related governments would cost 1,000 billion pounds without the reality of its success. It is time to approach this important subject with a greater sense of reason, with solutions that really work. There is no evidence that the approach the government presents here will produce significant results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u10	Mr. President. With this bill it is obliged to seek permission to run job-related activities within the national park's national boundaries and do so in consultation and cooperation with the Parliamentary Committee. There is also a provision for making such agreements with this bill, its oversight and observation, and it is worth reminding that this is a very important adjustment, now that the work and scope of service in the National Park on the United Nations has increased so much and is growing. This is also in accordance with the national park's new onset and protection programme. On behalf of the Capitol Committee, I thank you. The management and monitoring committee for her work and for others who have come to make this adjustment real because it is extremely necessary in the case of the park.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u11	Mr. President. I signed the committee's opinion in advance and I think it's right to do a little bit of an explanation why that is. That's because I think that when we're dealing with our National Park on the Moon, we need to remember that it's a very sought-after place of application, it's a thirst for a variety of occupations. That is why I believe that more would be done by allowing the fee to be paid for more than just a service, i.e. The price for running jobs in the park, which is much more than a service fee, because these are limited quality and demand and for limited quality to be paid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u12	President. This proposal is made at a Parliamentary Committee, where members of Pirata do not sit. Even if we do, we do not like this committee over our heads. It is a committee made up of politicians and is made up of politicians who make these decisions. Of course, the Water Savvy National Park is being reassigned to the Þingalval Committee, where it comes, for example. Until the Parliamentary Committee is permitted to set up regulations for these objects all together. We feel that it is best to remove politicians from the committee, and we don't want to be responsible for this Parliamentary Committee, so we won't vote on this, but we won't put anything against it that either.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u13	Mr. President. It is my pleasure to vote with the bill, which is the source of its origin from the Þingvall Committee, where I am one of the members of the Committee. It is very important to be developed as a professional policy and it is important to pursue land in the United States National Park, with the objective of protecting the individual nature in the United States and the single state of life as well. These include the Tingalent, the Pink, and the entire biodiversity of the House. It is also the cradle of the nation, i.e. That was the establishment of the nation of Israel in 930. There the nation, two armies accepted to adopt Christianity, and it can be said that it is very important that we continue to protect this most important place of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u14	President. After writing a BA book on celebrations and Congress, I might think of holding long and learned numbers here, but I'll leave it alone. I just want to say that it's probably a matter of time to set this policy and make the terms of these agreements. In general interest in the use of a limited resource such as the national park, income of it, is a larger matter to be considered in a wider context, and especially in the context of the legislation on market income institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u15	Mr. President. There was concern over how far this could be, and this adjustment is to make matters right. However, I have still been concerned that further courts are missing in these cases at an earlier stage, so I will sit next to 8. g., so modified, though I support the adjustment proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u16	Mr. President. In the United States, we vote against this bill, and we agree with the consumer organization that says, with the permission of the president: The NGOs pay attention to the changes proposed in the bill on the decline of business banks and savings to the insurance reserves of depositors and investors (TIF) as an accurate assessment of the appropriate size of TIF has not been made, as stated in the bill. In turn, if a component of this bill is taken along with the implementation of DGS III and the BRRD initiatives of the European Union, the organization will be considered to be less successful because it will provide counter-changing changes to the regular activities of social security. Therefore, in view of the 2008 economic collapse, it is advisable to avoid reducing the pricing of members of the Member States when there is no progress in the regular work to be done. This is criticism that we in the United States will accept and we will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u17	Mr. President. The deposit fund of the depositors is fine. It is much more appropriate than a new directive, which we will probably introduce to the coming failures, so it is normal to reduce the payment on insurance. We also think and need to bear in mind that this is a burden to finance the business. The cost of spending is 3◯4%. For the small financial companies, the savings fund, this is 7◯8%, and therefore, more part of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to a step - apart pay of criticism and has been criticized by big business banks, such as members of the Parliament can study. That is why I have requested that the committee discuss and give these bodies the opportunity to present their views between 2 and 3. [[The president calls.]] But what I'm saying is that it's wise to lower the cost of the trade, and it's wise to contribute to more competitiveness by step-separated pay, as more part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u18	Mr. President. I was on the top panel of the more part on notice, and he turns on that although it is true that the fund is doing very well today and is not really a reason for not doing this, at this time, it was nice to turn down this industry fee, and, in addition, I'm very much at the same time in favor that we are moving around to support smaller companies. I'm on the point that we need to think a little bit carefully about this case, even in the fall, and look at how this will come about in the future, how it's going to develop, in view of the fact that we've seen losses in the insurance deposit fund before. It's a bit of a fallout, so I think we need to examine in a broader sense how we're going to approach these issues to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u19	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a revised bill to be passed on the joint management of a author's office from the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jón Vilberg Guðjónsson and Rán Tryggvadóttir, of the Ministry of Education and Culture, and of Ásberg Sigurðsson, of the Union of Music and the Owner of the Transportation Court. The committee received reviews from Photostef, The Association of Artists and Records, and STEF. With the bill, the plan is to set up a new total law on the joint management of authors and the implementation of the European Parliament's European Parliament's Court and Council 2014/26/EU on the common management of authors and related rights and licenses across cross-borders due to Internet use on internal markets. The objective of the bill is to improve the activities of the legislators, which are considered to be common organisations, by setting rules on governance and financial systems, and by ensuring participation in their decision-making practices. The bill also aims to establish a harmonization of national licenses granted by a joint agency for the use of Internet music in order to ensure increased supply of such services. In the treatment of the matter, the importance of the legal environment of common organisations was discussed, that the rules regarding their actions are transparency, and the effect of rights on decision making is guaranteed. It was noted that increased demand for new legislation can exert a burdensome influence on the Icelandic rights group that is considered to be small in international comparison, including the due to increased cost of operating. The bill, on the other hand, includes minimal inversion, and it is important to ensure the integrated legal environment of existing organisations on the internal market and to strengthen resources in the use of author-sponsored jobs. A general discussion of terms on the bill was discussed, but a viewpoint on the inexplicability of the wording of the bill was presented. A paper with the bill shows that this is a minimal production by direct reference to the building and wording of the directive. While the introduction took into account the meaning of the New World Translation, other words and phrases were used when it became clearer. At the same time, the wording used in the author code has been used to further link these laws to one another. The Commission believes that the bill gives obvious evidence that the directive is based on an Icelandic translation and is therefore not sufficiently narrow and accessible. However, the Commission does not suggest a change in the bill for this reason, but it emphasizes that in general it will be the goal of bringing the translated text into as literate and clear as possible to the introduction of European types. However, the committee suggests changing the bill, which is technical in nature and correction. Under the heading Páll Magnússon writes for president, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir, Ostir Helgi Gunnarsson, and who stands here, Þórarinn Ingi's Pétursson, Birgir, Ármannsson of Aarnar, Valdimarsson Jándímsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guðmundur Þóra Árnadóttir, and Steinunnnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u20	Madam President. It is quite clear that our dear friend, the president of Germany, Frank-Walter-Steinmeier Steinmeier, will arrive at the council at 4 p.m. The 1345 and the message are clear that we should behave in particular while he is. I also think it's important that we show some respect when he's here. That's why I'm taking this opportunity now before he's in the house to direct it to the President that there's a further recess now at a conference, at least that the fish fire will not be discussed. That's one of the issues we've been discussing. This subject will be settled, but it needs to be discussed. You can't talk about such important issues. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry to say that the council board's government is rather unsolved right now, and there's no way we can offer a butt-said talk about something as important as the fish fire while we're not getting together. Therefore, I encourage the President to give us more time to come to an agreement on the issues presented here at the council than to go into the event that I will take part in and discuss in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u21	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. The lack of ability and willingness of the greater part to achieve any agreement on the employment of Congress is very significant. Although most of the smaller parts of the council have shown a great deal of responsibility and willingness to resolve matters about the matter of Congress, there has been no playoffs on the part of the body. It is now taking advantage of the position in which the council is requested for normal, polite meetings here, under the German president's visit to set controversial matters on a program that requires much discussion and, contrary to one agreement that has been reached between more things and less, that controversy would not be taken on the program until the Senate and the Senate work had been signed. This is disappointing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u22	President. I come up here to join my colleagues who spoke first. It's not our will to be with someone necessarily boring, but I'd like to point out that there's not a deal yet, well, what I would call the objectively less part on the end of the council. The fish fire is one of the subjects that need much discussion, which has been mentioned as a matter of controversy, and there are several issues that helped us understand that the program would not be taken until the agreement was made for the end of the council. That's why I find this amiss the conversation we've had about this matter, fishing, and other matters to be stored until we have talked to the prime minister and find out some sort of contracts about the end of the council. I think it's important. But now it is to be put on schedule despite the fact that I and others have prayed that the program would not be scheduled. It will be more obvious and obvious that we should not have any meaningful discussions on the program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The Speaker's only doing what he wants. That's why we're on the board talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u23	President. I don't know how to put this in order to be important enough for my taste, but I think everyone realizes that potential contracts for the end of the council are unusually complex and complex. The fact that it is difficult to get them together is not mean enough. I think everyone is trying their best on that subject, at least I'm trying to get an acceptable end to the Congress's respect and all of us here. All I know is that cases of fish farming have been cooperated with government and government positions, within committees as well as on the outside. I don't know how many meetings I've had on this matter, formally and informally, to tell you exactly where it's going. Nor have I sensed that everyone wants the case in some form to pass through. Now it is going to be called for a word of speech and a new time for the present. Of course, we want to make the most of the time. [[The president calls.]] If we are caught up in farms, we want to take advantage of every moment when there are few people to get ahead, that is to be discussed, and that is to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] Nobody's talking about finishing it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u24	Madam President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and others who have suggested that it was best to conduct a convention program in a way that has not been preached here. We are expecting an unoccupied person, and it is true that this subject on the program has received a lot of discussion and much treatment, but it is once that there is an important part of the issue that is going on, as it was clearly presented at a meeting. This is lunchtime committee. In fact, this case is not really appropriate for the program when we expect the kind of event that we will expect to see below, and it is a source of great joy and excitement. This isn't right. Mrs. President, I would insist that someone else be taken up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u25	President. If it were willing to complete a contract with the less objective part of the government, it would be possible and can be done very quickly. There is very little that stands out for the fact that we have to approach this tremendous matter. We've allowed every issue that doesn't have a disagreement about rolling through the council and accepting it, but it says that while we were talking about the fact that we're ready to move on a situation that would not be opposed to stories, it would stop the issues that were at odds and that we had to negotiate for that time. That time has not been spent on the part of the government, and that is why we have entered this boring position in matters that otherwise are totally impossible to overcome, even if they are opposed. Now, it just starts with the decision that the President of the Parliament will set up a series of issues he knows and has been spoken of as having to make a solid agreement and that the less objective section can be met. [[The president calls.]] I'm calling for the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, talks to her side, arranged the smaller things and concluded agreements with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u26	Madam President. We're at that point - sometimes it's boring to talk like that, we who've been here a little longer than many - that we were worried about when we were talking about letting things go through. But we said, " We wanted to be perplexing, we wanted to let the matter go. ' In the past, every case was handled, and it stopped to hold a contract. [[It's a fact.]] We decided not to do so in the responsible government position. We decided to let things go, and what did we do yesterday? The majority of the government's opposition helped the government through. That's what I'm asking myself, Your Excellency. President: What does that mean for us? What is the significance of our objective as a government official? We can't get anything, we're never taken into account, not in the introduction, not in our relationships, not in simple wishes to interrupt, change our schedule while we're together, because we're not going to make that much of the biggest part of the government's opposition to the government. But they are not listening. [[The president calls.]] Of course, when it comes to history and experience, you stop. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u27	Madam President. A lot of things might come to mind saying on this occasion, but that's not what I'm going to do. It is true that we are faced with an unusually complex discussion and the end of Congress. Government status, at least The four groups that have worked together have shown all the reasonableness, patience, and tolerance possible in these circumstances. And in order for this to be maintained, we too have had excellent dealings with the highest. Prime Minister, but it does not always seem to be the president's unit. But that's what I want to say to you. Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér's chairman that it is true that it is important to be physically healthy, but it does not mean to just run out with charms before people agree on how to do the job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u28	Madam President. Once more, I feel like I've come to my old place, the theatre. Here we are at the National Theater, where we are expected to set ourselves up on ceremony to honor the president of a foreign state while the Supreme Court is here. The General's president decides to throw in a particular bomb. What exactly is this attitude? There's some very sensitive negotiations going on here. It was long known that a foreign ruler would arrive at this point, if it is important to have peace and quiet and all well - mannered in the hall when the monarch of the nation came on the stage, why not a program that is not a problem, one of the matters that would have been brought through in harmony and harmony? There seems to be a will for conflict, a desire to argue with the government that is moving forward with the highest power. The President of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]] It's just a weird attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u29	President. It will be fun for future historians to read the opening of my speech, but I'm going to say at the outset that, in spite of the fact that just before this discussion has begun, it may sound a little bit unusual, in fact, that there has been an extremely good team in the committee on this matter, inside and outside. I would like to start my speech by saying a great deal of thanks for the fine work of all the representatives, whether in a administrative section or in a smaller part, whether they were at the committee party of the greater part or not or not. I have found this to be an example of how we can work as a team when we exert ourselves. That is why I rejoice to talk, even though I notice that no one is listening, this matter is here in the hall, for the discussion is at home. And so that I make it specific at the beginning of my case, Mr. President, it is our intention to enter the case between the 2nd and 3rd. to continue the good cooperation of members of the Committee, from where they come from, in an effort to achieve an even greater solidarity on the subject and to make changes that are necessary. And now I'll start--or begin, I think there's two or three beginnings with this speech at my place--but I'd like to say it here at the beginning of which they are somehow, i.e. I want it to be brought back to you that the more part is going to withdraw one form of change. There is a modification suggestion marked at 18. b. in a document for a modification proposal, and then it reads: ◯B teams (II) put it this way: For the management of ACs for marine farms, which have been evaluated for carrier tolerance, which was met by validation of these legislation and met the criteria of 8 g. The Law as it was before the execution, depends on the regulations of these laws for the recognition in the application handling and dispensing of applications. I hereby withdraw this proposal and inform it, as I have, in fact, made with the individual members of the committee, that this mutual resolution will be established and proposed, hopefully in harmony, between 2 and 3. It is good to dwell only on positive things and to do them well. I have talked about the great solidarity that has existed in the Committee on this matter. So seven of the nine agents in action. The employment committee is meeting for adjustments to the proposals and members of the committee, the one standing here, in addition to the circumstances. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson's son, Halla Signar, Signý' Kristjánsdóttir of Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, the Ólafur of▁Ölefur the Ísleifsson of Izzur, and the Trausti Friðbertsson Nerth. The smaller section has provided its own commission and its proposed changes. That's why. Councilmen Elíasdóttir Frinífjörg Elisdóttir and Jón Þór Ólafsson, with permission of the president, also say: ▪ The more part suggests that there will be some necessary changes to the bill. The smaller parts agree with the majority of them, but in several important matters, there is reason to go further to ensure that there will be a progressive fish breeding law that will ensure the best interests of the community and the sector. This work serves as an example to me, to agree with people, but to make changes about something they want to go further. I'll discuss it whenever it comes to it, with its author and again that it's my hope that we can be between the 2nd and 3rd. in the Committee's work simply agreed on what we believe needs to be done even more. This is a big, big case, Madam President, and the development proposals of the greater part are put in a special document in 22 numbers and more letters under it. The concept of the committee is long and thorough, followed by the opinion of the committee. Therefore, the environment and transport organisations are at ease. The pro board sent the case until it was told. Obviously, I'm not going to read all these data here. I don't know if I had time. But I'm going to go over the big lines in this matter, and I'm going to lead the interested people, inside and outside, to the documents underneath. So, we're here on the bill of a fishing business, and this isn't the first time that it's going to happen here at the council. At least they tried to do this last year. It's been working on this case for a while. It was revised in 2014 at the General Assembly, but the Law on Fishing lay in the ground since 2008. A team was appointed in 2017, if I didn't skim, and if I didn't, it made certain that in fish farming the risk assessment of genetics would be applied, and then, as I say, it has come to the Senate for at least two years in a row. It is, therefore, that my President, who knows how important it is that this case be fulfilled. If for some reason it doesn't legal in us, we are looking forward to continuing the use of fish farming legislation from 2008, legislation that most people, if not all, agree that is defective and has to be fixed. Now it is a good thing to fix what is going to be fixed, to improve the situation, and to make it as well as possible. In the bill at the highest. A minister is suggested that the overall production of fertile salmon will be based on the risk assessment of genetics, that marine areas will be divided into fire zones and allowed to be advertised, that the management management management and monitoring will be increased by fish farming, that there will be an increase in access to land management applications in non-transfusion resistant areas, that the need for monitoring and application by salmon lice, that there will be increased translucency for fish farmers'activities, that the environmental funds of marine farmers may be increased, that there will be a license for unferred salmon, and that there will be a source of pressure for management. The main purpose of the bill is the highest. A minister is to strengthen the laws and administration of fish farming, with the aim of a fish farm walking on the basis of sustainability. The bill has developed a policy that requires the development of fish farming by scientific counseling. It was about the bill, Mr. President. I want to draw some things and draw special attention to, i.e. that the sector will become sustainable and environmental and policy that there is no requirement for fish farming to be built up by scientific advice. These points can be said that the work of the Commission, a work that was considerable, took place in a number of meetings, and that I am the chief of the committees that a number of trips were discussed at the General Meetings. The employment committee to Norway, where the Committee personally studied fish farming, met representatives of the environment, representatives of fish farms, fish farms, and a number of research institutions that care for environmental and natural sciences in the context of fish farming. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank you especially for this trip. It was also exemplary, and it could be done more often in this regard when the above - mentioned articles address very complex and extensive subjects. You can see that it is good to look to and learn about matters in other countries. The committee has stressed the importance of having all the viewpoints on the matter on the table and weigh and evaluate them. As the commission says, President: It is a growing industry that is important to set a clear and reasonable rule order with the objective that the work will be strong and vigorous and sustainable, and the protection of the environment will be guided. The Committee gave a view that the bill was a great improvement in fish farming laws and made it strong, and there was a great need for the bill to become a law. It was a march during the arrival and coverage of the committee that all feel a great need for this bill to become a law. Then, of course, we want to see different adjustments in making the law even better than the underlying law is that everyone wants it to become a law. So I'll testify again in the opinion of the committee, President: In recent years, Iceland and I have increased significantly. For the most part, Norwegian salmon is used, an alien species in Icelandic nature. Therefore, caution should be exercised in the production process and the requirement that the Marketing Authorisation Holders be responsible for the failure of genetic mixing with wild Icelandic salmon strains. It is important to protect wild crops in the rivers of the country. In particular, the main aim of genetic risk assessment is to prevent potential damage to wild crops by assessing the target of sustainable use of wild strains. With the bill there is a sharpness of the duties of the Marketing Authorisation Holder, including to address strokes, as well as to further monitor and provide Food Agency with a state-of-the-art authority guilty of the violations of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. In addition, the MAH uses counter measures, e.g. light control and use of larger amounts aimed at delaying sexual maturation of fertilexa. Here we go again to the scientific foundation. That's the big lines we went over to 1st. The case and the highest. A minister explained, that the basic theme of fish farming is genetic risk assessment and that this sector is based on scientific counseling. Therefore, it is entrusted with the role of scientists within the seas to provide risk assessment, to switch zones to fire areas, etc. We trust scientists, such as Research in fish stocks. As far as I'm concerned, I'm so simple that we either trust scientists or not, and if scientists tell us that something is okay with regard to risk management, we simply have no choice but to believe it and to strengthen the principle of risk assessment. I'd like to now, Mr. President, explain some of the key adjustments. Business committee. There are many of them just as I went over, but I'm going to go out and turn back the underlying documents. The bill expects a meeting committee on fish farms, which will be counselled by the government on the topic of fish farming and will consider whatever may be involved in the case, if so. assessment of the criteria and processing of the data based on genetic risk assessment. More of it. The employment committee suggests that instead of the five representatives of this committee, as expected in the bill, there will be six agents and a sixth agent who will be added according to the appointment of environmental and resource ministers. Then, on the board, one of the commissionees is appointed without appointment and if he is chairman, one according to the appointment of the Institute for Marine Research, one according to the Commission's appointing of the European Commission, one according to the Commission's appointment of the European Commission and finally the majority of the Committee suggest that it be added by one according to the Commission's appointment of the Environment and Resources. The next adjustment proposal I'd like to make a little bit of a entry, Mr President, is bound to Article 3. the bill on the division of marine areas in a fire zone, advertising, and their distribution. In the bill at the highest. A minister on this matter said - and still says - that the Oceanographic Institute decides to divide them on the basis of carrier tolerance and the best overall uses of possible fuel areas, having agreed with the Organization. Hv. The employment committee or more of it suggests that the Agency and Regional Council will also be consulted on marine and coastal systems, No. 88/2018, where appropriate. Here's the thought of further linking this with nature protection laws, as well as the design of marine and coastal areas and their rural communities in each area. Then it's the risk assessment, the way I came in. It's all covered. Suggested suggestions for changing the article on this subject and following this article will be followed by a new paragraph. However, I'm going to say first, President, that when we discuss the risk assessment, we suggest that this will be the clear objective of this decision, i.e. risk assessment, preventing possible damage to wild crops stocks. It's the device we use for it, the risk assessment. Then we add: To be taken into account in the risk assessment of genetic preparation, the compensatory measures that reduce the possibility of genetic preparation should include light controls and sizes of screws and matrix bags. Meritional research centres should be consulted for the proposals of fire companies to perform such counter-improvements. The risk assessment should be based on factors such as the number of runaways and their return rate, the impact of ocean currents and spreads of fish, the removal of rivers from marine farms, the breed size of salmon in rivers and other relevant factors. So here is a list of specific compensatory measures that could possibly affect the risk assessment. This is driving fish farmers in the environment, i.e. to take further action than they themselves do, i.e. intensification in the direction that reduces the risk of genetic mixture. This will add a little lower than two new issues associated with the risk assessment, except that the treatment, version and risk assessment change are better established, i.e. how they will be treated if they are increased. Will that be reduced? How will it be handled? The secretary is authorized to set up a Regulation on this, as says, by the permission of the president: The package should take into account the best available technology and the best way to contribute to a environmentally friendly operation. Here is back on what is now, as I say, over and around this committee: we're trying to encourage people and companies, both by motivation and by regulations, to go into the state of the environment's most environmentally friendly business. The next change I'd like to introduce to you is that a food clinic will be permitted to take appropriate measures to control the spread of infectious diseases or parasites, as defined in Article 10. the treatment of fish diseases. The Agency can include defined infectious areas and limited transport of live fish between such areas. This is very important to get through, that in the event of infectious diseases, and even preemptively, infectious sites can be defined. We know this in livestock fences and stuff. Regarding the length of leaves, it is suggested that they do not become premature, but they will be 16 years old. I talked about counter measures at a place of fire that depend on equipment being the best. Other countermeasures have been reported frequently, i.e. if the accidents come and fish escape. Here is a source that reads: A private facility is permitted to agree that a hunting club or seafood rights in which a hunting club has not been established would recommend a search for such fish in nearby fishing rivers or lakes and that it is removed. This is especially a Norwegian example, allowing a fish to simply go and get it, of course by permission of the owner of the river or lake. The next adjustment I would like to draw attention to the payment of the environment fund of sea farms. In the bill at the highest. A minister was suggested there are two currency but what. The employment board suggests that they will be three, i.e. that the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) staff of unfertilized salmon or rainbow sung in open heifers should pay annual fees that the amount - no, the excuse for fertile salmon in an open heifer will be paid 20 SDRs per tons, for unfertilized salmon or rainbow silk, which will be 10 SDRs, but those enterprises which have closed fire equipment should pay the annual price of 5 SDRs. In other words, the price for a fertile fish in an open cow is four times higher than that of a fish sealed in a cow. I call attention to this, Mr. President, that this means only a price for the environment fund of marine economs. I think the next thing on the agenda, whenever it's going to be discussed, is a fish supply, so it's important for people to realize that this is not the only currency mentioned here. Another addition I'd like to enter, Mr President, is the decision to change the risk assessment. It is, as I say, the basic theme of all this matter, and people have had very different opinions about genetics. Since this is to be the basis, the majority of the committees consider it important to make the most of their terms. Therefore, the following adjustment proposals are proposed: The commission shall be made by the Committee of Three Fisheries, founders of genetics, and/or ecology to study the methodology used by the Marine Research Institute to assess weight tolerance and to make risk assessments. The committee shall give its opinion and proposal to the Minister before May 1st, 2020. The secretary shall then submit a report on the findings of the Committee and their response. In other words, it is tried to make more peace with the risk assessment, that it is the best thing to do - [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u30	I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is available to interrupt his speech for a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u31	Coming from Germany, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u32	Well, that's what makes it so. The senator interrupted his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u33	Honorable generals. I want to draw attention to the fact that the president of Germany, Mr Frank-Walter-Steinmeier Steinmier, is at the council. The president of Germany is here visiting the General Assembly Hall in connection with a public visit offered by the president of Iceland. I would like to welcome the president of Germany, Mr Frank-Walter-Steinmeier Steinmier, to the Generals House and I expect his visit to Iceland to further strengthen the fine ties between our countries. Allied Witnesses of the German and German presidents of Germany and the German nation were treated with friendship and respect. Wait a minute. All the councilmen, that they should answer my words, that they should stand up from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u34	President. I'm not gonna keep this much further, I could talk a lot more about this, but I'm sure I'll have a chance to do it. However, I would like to draw attention to yet another change of motion. A professional committee or more of it suggests that there is also a subject that reads: With a discussion with the Food Organization, the secretary shall set a rules for the treatment of parasites in fish farms, such as the management of the operators for counting salmon lice and specific thresholds for response and measures for the spread of salmon lice. This is in the Regulation, Mr. President, but we thought it would be appropriate for us to give more support and to improve this, so this is a requirement to set the threshold for parasites in fish farms. I'd like to make a decision that the greater part is important, and actually I don't think I'm sinning on my knees by claiming that there's a common opinion on the part of everyone. The employment board, to ensure that the institutions that receive increased roles under the law will be expanded and secure, but we must not place these increased projects on the institutions, prepare the matter for the development of the institutions, but let them underside the heel strengthen the institutions. I have full faith that this will not be done either, we will provide them with additional roles and support and financial support. Finally, I would like to quote the committee's opinion, including This quote I will read up the thought and spirit that I believe has a greater part of the employment committee, and I sincerely hope that we all have a state of the council. ▪ Great and rapid developments have taken place in fish farming for the past few years, and it is clear that it will continue. It is vital, therefore, that the construction of the national industry will always be used in the best available technology, with natural interests in mind. The majority believe that it is not long before the use of fertile salmon in sealed and semi-sealed heifers is practiced solely. The course and the aim of the next few years should be reviewed in the fish breed legal environment, which will take into account the progress to be taken into account, including on fireware. Hence, considering the above, the greater part adds to the 23rd. par., which will be 24. ..; the bill becomes a new provision for temporary reviews that state that the legislation will be reviewed no later than May 1, 2024.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u35	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for cooperation. It was very important and precious. I thank the whole board for coming with great honesty and great force into this important work because we are building a future industry, and then we need to set up demands for society, in the interest of environment and nature protection, so we can build up a industry as this in no less than a short time. We have been burned too often by such techniques. I want to thank you. A senator for this assignment and for fixing what had to be done, and there was much more to be done. I also realize that there is a problem. A senator is in trouble in this regard. - Ten seconds left. The first question is about the Commission's new proposal. On the other hand, I'd like to ask, how on earth did this get through the government and then a council of the Left Green, i.e. not present at the most. Minister of the Environment to the Conference Committee. It's being fixed now. How could it happen, though, that this happened through governments and councils like this? [[The president calls.]] And why is the Committee designed to deal with the risk assessment, which is the key and point in our long - term development of a credible industry? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why should the Committee review the risk assessment, which is in my opinion the work of scientists?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u36	President. Thank you. A senator is warm to the matter, to me and to all of us. As to the first question, I don't know how it went through the government, unfortunately, it doesn't sit there yet. But for myself, in terms of a convention of the left green, I believe that it is better to come to the matter simply so that we can work together for the changes we have made, rather than freezing a matter somewhere because people disagree with one point of it. That's why I'm so glad we set this up, and I'm sure I'm in charge of the Environment Ministry. With regard to the committee and the risk assessment, I merely brought up the fact that I understand that thought well and feel that it is a beautiful place to discuss these large fish farms. That's where the natural risk assessment is the biggest issue in the world. Imagine if we had a field where we could have discussed, for example. The 1983 greeting system. Perhaps we would have a different view of that. But I reiterate that it is then the National Institute of Marine Research to propose a proposal, and a minister can only confirm or refuse that proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u37	Madam President. I stress that I find it odd that this has gone through the government like this, but thank you immediately. A senator for fixing this up and bringing a representative of the Environment Minister into the committee. There must have been comments at the highest level. A top minister to bring a committee where environmental ministers do not even have seat at the table. Of course, it's the Senate and most of it's less of a thing to fix a bait like that, and I'm going to emphasize thanks to it. That's the case with a senator. I can't help but think of the extracurricular risk assessment of genetic preparation. It is not kept as well as possible around it. The risk assessment was the key to a concluded agreement made in a report by the National Fisheries Association, Fish Farmers, Environment Ministers, local representatives, and marine economist and agricultural ministers of their time, all thehaves involved. The risk assessment has to be overemphasized because it is more likely that we will be able to make peace with these important sectors, which we are going to develop with care for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u38	President. I'm going to choose to spend my time discussing the matter as it is now, but not as it was when it entered the council. However, I must simply refuse the risk assessment. On the contrary, it is crystal clear in the process of change, and even more of it is referred to as an aluminium. The employment committee that the risk assessment is the basis for where fish farming can be conducted. The proposal of the Marine Research Agency can be said to be binding in that a minister can either reject or confirm it, a minister will not be able to change it. So, on the contrary, scientific approaches are being raised on this level of employment. I must prove true to all those who have come to this point in this way, primarily from science.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u39	Madam President. First, I would like to agree with what has shown that in many respects this matter was exemplary on the committee. The committee has, although we have not finally had a joint opinion on the subject, worked a tremendously tight team, and it has been very valuable and important to the case and that I believe that the job for the future has succeeded. But there are some things I would like to ask. A pilot in the water. On one hand, the management board is said to increase the growth of fish farming. I'd like to ask you what. An authority on how he can see to it how to apply it. How will this be guaranteed? There is concern that contributions to these institutions are not being made at the same time. Also, I would like to ask him about his position of observation. It has been called for a high level of observation to be in place of a fish fire that does not present a problem, unfortunately, for many days of observation to take place at the time of something.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u40	President. We've reached some point of the next issue, i.e. Retribution in fish farming, and that is the best. It's closely connected. It provides the answer to how the management board will be promoted and monitored as part of the budget laid to allow control and control. To me, the most important thing is when it comes to the next matter. I'm very much on the move to discuss the construction of the institutions and to work in many parts of the country, and I'm convinced that in the future there will be a follow-up as near as the fire. But to me, we're at this place right now that the main thing is that the surveillance will be as good as possible, working. That's number one in my mind. Where is that number two? It may go together, and it's going to be better and better, but in that I will listen to the agencies that supervise the operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u41	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In fact, I'm a little worried that the money won't come in until later and I think we need to promote the administration and monitor right away. We have to work on it, and I know it's the will to do it together. It's called increased transparency. I'd like to ask you about the operation of fish farming companies. This objective is specifically mentioned in the committee opinion. It'd be nice if we could. The speaker of the matter may be able to discern only how he can foresee the outcome. It also speaks of training workers in fish farming to build strong knowledge in the local article. How can you tell? An executive for whom it will be done? To set, e.g. increased funding for the University of Hólar, which has been a bit specialized in the teaching of fish farms? Or how to see it. For example, is that the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u42	President. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of strengthening these institutions. Granted, this has been done only recently. This is very important in the work ahead of us in terms of government finances. So again I repeat that a new currency is expected. There has been some debate over his distribution. I say again: To me, the most important thing is to strengthen and strengthen our surveillance and correct it. For education, for education, we need to look to the institutions of education that have cared for it. The University of Hólar is an example, Fish Technology School, and so forth. But we need to work on it wherever it might be best to do it - there are currently educational centres in many parts of the country - so we can support the education of staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u43	President. I'd like to ask the senator about two things. The reason we have fish farming is the precious creation that results in and how we work and how we like it. There is fish farms in the country today, and now larger frames are being put around it with more environmental considerations and, at the same time, work on it more responsible, we can say, add to fish farms, but naturally within environmental policies and such. That's the point of it. It's natural what matters when you look at it on the other hand: What remains in the country, i.e. In the form of a valuable creation, does it work? And, on the other hand, what remains in the country in the form of damage to the environment, salmon, and if it becomes mixed, contamination of the beaches, antibiotic use, etc.? In case of a moment. A senator could answer the question about the big picture: What remains in the form of valuable work, if this bill is a law set up by means of a change proposal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u44	President. Hv. A senator asked if I could answer that question. No, I'm going to confess to my ignorance that in one minute, I can't cover the big picture of exactly how much value or how many jobs will be done. I confess to myself the ignorance of that. It is true that in fish farming people look to a highly valuable creation. I think it's also important to look into more things. I look at the whole world and see where we're going, people are thinking about making food, looking for crops, how to grow proteins, so they leave behind as a least carbon trail. All countries that have opportunity of it are looking for fish farming. Here's a fish farm, like a ooze. A senator came in. There are reports. The answers to questions are few. So even if I don't have them in my head, there are senators. But to me, it's just as much a part of the big movie as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u45	Yes, it is. It can be less carbon - based, especially if the fish are fed with soy and a variety of such things. True, some oil has to be added, but it is the future. The level of carbon will be much less watered than a fish caught, which is natural. Regarding danger, Iceland's law on environmental responsibility. It speaks of the aims of these laws as securing the following, with the permission of a president: ▪ That the person responsible for the environmental damage caused by employment or the imminent risk of such damage will be harmed or eliminated if it has occurred and will be costed by measures resulting from doing so in accordance with the Environmental Court's payment order. A person who is contaminated pays off. There's fear of the track in this regard. They've put in and out. A senator has had many good nails installed. But you see - and that's why I can't be in the committee's list of objects - that the cost rules are not fully followed, i.e. That the man who makes the money should pay. We see this repeatedly, and we're afraid of you, as if your rentals are cheating, etc. But no, we're not gonna take them off the license, we're not gonna let them pay for to the extent that you would feel fair. [[The president calls.]] The same applies to environmental impacts, fish farming. They're getting off a bunch of sheets, and what are they doing? These are the steps that make you nervous. The monitoring role is not followed, so even when good things are present, people who are not contaminated will be protected. What does the senator say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u46	President. I remind myself of a proposal both in the bill and in the Committee's opinion of raising the amount of money in the marine environment fund. I remind you of the bill that we haven't started talking about, turning into a fish farm. In both the bill and the members of the committee, it is up to us to apply the thinking at the same time. There's a senator coming in. What happens if a fish escapes? asks why. Senator. I went over that there are e.g. permission to simply be caught. It is already a regulation on equipment needed in each fish farm to place a network around the cows where it is. We're extending it by allowing landowners to rise to the lakes and lakes. If I recall this correctly in the Regulation, it's the duty of the fish farms themselves to have these equipment. Although this may not be illogical, it was cited as a question of rules. A senator speaks of me as having this bill in their spirit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u47	Madam President. Thank you. Kolobi's spokesman Óttarsson Proppér for his speech. What I'd like to do in this short answer turns to an article as a matter of course. At the beginning of his talk, a senator said that there would be a delay between the 2nd and the 3rd. I have to admit that I'm disappointed that we here at the Senate Hall under 2nd. There will not be an opportunity to reason on how that matter will be handled. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is it true that this particular point has not been determined by the governments? However, I would like to ask, " Is it not reasonable to expect to draw up scenarios in terms of the allowed situation, since it is available based on different means of dropping or continuing, according to each course? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u48	President. Perhaps these phrases ring in the ears of those who do not completely understand what this is about because I drew my adjustment. But you're right about what you're doing. A senator says that there is not a way to which he will contribute to these matters. In this regard, we have considered that there are clear lines of rules to be set after these suggestions have been submitted. I don't know if I can get it in 22 seconds to explain what it's all about. I did not bring it into my speech because we have not yet talked about the exact and material way to which it will be assigned. It will be done at the Committee, and the matter will come here in the Hall of Congress, but I restate on the fact that it is the most important thing to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u49	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer is: In this context, I'd like to make a point. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér as the majority opinion editor for this task. It is now 24 days since the case was laid out, so there has been a lot of time to work and prepare, and I think drawing up these scenarios is absolutely necessary. Of course, this should be the case. Um... The first time is the best, but it has to be done. If you are looking at different implementations on how the operating line will be drawn for permission and the available application for permission, it is necessary that a body of Congress have a pattern of how the application will be affected in relation to the current applications. It's just the minimum requirement for members of Congress to be able to see it black in white, and it's not just to be seen sometime later, because there's a lot of interest in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u50	President. Thank you. A senator, who had confidence that he would also see to it what he was doing. A group of his own. Work Committees - these were many of the contempts of the industry, including the U.S. with the more part of the motion we pulled back. I agree with what. A senator needs to be well discussed. My general view of law is that law needs to be clear. It should be clear where they are involved. It is the greater interests, my knowledge, the interests of individual enterprises or territories. [[Up front.]] The rules simply need to be explained. In effect, the point being, the person who has to apply into the new system turns to nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u51	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my share of the employment committee on bill to correct the adjustment of various laws associated with fish farms. The bill seeks to update existing fish farm legislation. A similar bill was submitted to the last council and was clear at the outset to make significant changes in the bill. Hence, it is only natural that there was a good time to discuss the committee, but there were 19 meetings in all on the subject. It is also well illustrated by the number of references given to the committee, which included 46 reviews and 81 members of the committee. There are very different views about fish farming, which are presented in the comments that have all benefited from the work of the Committee and should be attributed to those who sent in envelopes. It is important that the committee receive suggestions on how most aspects of the matter are involved. Of course, it is long time for legislation on this article to be brought to modern viewpoints, ending a great opportunity for fish farming to grow and thrive in Iceland if the right thing to do is right. Therefore, it is important that such growth is in greater agreement with the natural world and that there is a clear demand for the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder to be used. It involves the natural communities too. Therefore, it should be noted that in discussing the case of the Committee it has been emphasized that all views have been brought forward and as best information on the whole fish farm, e.g. The committee went to Bergen, like a sledgehammer. The head of the majority of the committee came in to study the experience of the Norwegians of fish farming, which was the visit on a number of useful subjects, and was able to apply such methods in more cases at the council, as there is no need to invent the bike. Then I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to commend myself. A senator, an executive of the greater part, Sirori Óttarsson Proppér, for having handled the matter in particular within the committee and exerted himself vigorously in the need for action. The same can be said of other committees. The greater part suggests that there will be some necessary changes to the bill, taking the smaller part under most of it, but in several important matters, there is reason to go even further to ensure that this will be the value of progressive fish breeding laws that will ensure the best interests of nature and take into account the interests of the community and the sector. It is the opinion of the less part that if there is a clear demand for fish farming, especially for environmental protection and natural protection, it will result in longer-term growth in fish farms for Icelandic society. Worldwide, nations are moving forward and increasing production in fish farms. That's how Norwegians are headed, e.g. from 1.2 million to about 5 million tons in 2050 Iceland, which has more than 70,000 tons of production, will find such competition difficult. However, Icelandic production's unique status may lie in the quality of its product, and Iceland could match rich requirements for sustainable and natural protection and create special facilities on the market. For this reason the memory part suggests the following changes to the bill: Two. The bill discusses the so - called Flavour Committee on Fishing. A minister is expected to ship the committee and to be a government adviser on the topic of fish farming. The minority agrees that it is normal for other stakeholders and governments to meet regularly. I think it's the best thing to do, and it's important that they do it and look at things that are at the top of each cycle when it comes to fish farming. At the same time, the minority agrees with the suggestion that the greater part be added to the Management Board, designated by the Environment and Resource Minister. The minority expects that agent to be from an independent nature protection organization. In many parts of the bill, you can see a lack of environmental and resource access which the greater part is trying to meet and takes the smaller part under the need to do so. The Committee established a view that it is unfortunate for a panel of stakeholders to discuss the grounds and measures of data based on risk assessment. The lesser part agrees with the viewpoints observed, including The National Committee for Agriculture, Marine Research and Natural Science Institute for Iceland. Scientific and marine research institutions must be provided with the means to build a professional risk assessment. It is likely that the credibility of fish farming and the unity of the industry will depend on it. Therefore, it suggests that the article will be adjusted in accordance with the above, so that it will be handled by the government as a counselling on the topic of fish farming, with the particular exception of genetic risk assessment. The minority agrees with the viewpoints that have been identified as the need for the methodology of the Marine Research Institute for professional criticism. So, like the other part, it suggests that a committee will be appointed and that this committee will be appointed by independent scientists in the field of ethics, strains of genetics, and/or genetics to study the Marine Research Institute's method of assessment of vehicle tolerance and risk assessment. The Committee submitted its opinion and proposal to minister before May 1, 2020, and Minister of Ministers, followed by a report on the findings of the Committee and their response. The suggestion is almost consistent with the proposal of more than one part, but the smaller part considers it important to appoint a foreign nonviolence committee and therefore suggests the above. In 1st. Section 3. The bill is suggested to determine the switch between the remote or marine areas of a firefield based on carrier tolerance and the best overall uses of available fuel areas by agreeing with the Organization. A recent act of marine and coastal planning is in Article 1. magazine on coastal planning, presentation, and consultations. In this way, the Regional Council shall provide a description of the organizational projects that highlight the regional Council, the basis of information, the available policy and planning procedures, such as the presentation and consultation of the planning to governments, the public and other stakeholders, and the implementation of environmental assessments. An even greater requirement is set out for consultations with stakeholders and members of organizational law, including the U.S. of 2 mg. 30. g. ..that, before suggesting that the main organization is decommissioned in the rural administration, it should, its basis and the environmental assessments, when appropriate, introduce the people of the community and other stakeholders in a general meeting or in another satisfactory manner. The presentation will be advertised in a striking way and the proposal presented to local rural and regional structure committees where appropriate. There's an Icelandic party at the Ásse Treaty, which includes a member of the United States. There should be access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to a fair environmental trial, as stated in Article 7. to participate in environmental planning, plans and policies. With all of this in view, the smaller part contributes to a change to Article 3. The bill suggests that the Merological Research Institute proposes that the switch between the distant and marine areas of a fire area to a minister and that, before a minister confirms this proposal, it should be presented and given three weeks time to make comments. The smaller part is that with the change, the Applaus Convention conditions are met. Mr. President. There has been rapid development and increased innovation in fish farming worldwide in recent years. In Norway, e.g. very much money is put in research and development new technologies of closed seashells, which suggest that there can be a future in fish farms. Similarly, there has been some potent effects in the studies on the production of a dry fish in recent years, including CYP3A4 and CYP3A4. Iceland, but experiments with such fire at sea soon begin on Eastern Europe which is really exciting and becomes interesting to see how it works. The reviews presented the view that new legislation is important to the operators for further induction of their production in an environmentally friendly manner. Indeed, a positive step is taken in changing the sum of parts, while the smaller part believes that it needs to go further toward strengthening corporate incentives to use the best possible technology available. Therefore, the smaller item also suggests that environmental protection from marine farms is higher for open heifers. The smaller section welcomes the greater part of the proposal for a license to be released to 16 years of age and agrees with it. It is happy that the government groups make temporary agreements when it comes to the use of the common resources of the nation. This ensures a reliable perspective for the article but also prevents the traditional and non-term use rights of the owners of fish farms. The smaller section feels that it should be clear that in a business permit a maximum of the authorised biomass in each field and thus suggests a change in the product. The bill tells you that applications that are already present fall down in areas that are not already controlled. Other applications stay. The lesser part agrees that investments and destiny are normal taken into account in this article. It is therefore true that certain applications introduced into a costly process at the Food Institute will remain. As noted by whiskers. The author of the greater part has retracted his wording work in this regard, and I suppose that it will then be adopted by the committee on which I think that is the best of matters, and it is very important that this is clear. We will also refer to a committee study in my part of a series of short-term studies. With a 17. The bill suggests the change to allow Marine Research Institute to engage in temporary research, alone or in cooperation with others, in Iceland's fishing weekend of farm animals, farming practices, the behavior of farm fish, manpower, equipment, and the health of legislatures. In view of the fact that in Iceland, fishing research is practiced by more than staff in the Marine Research Institute suggests that this branch of the bill will be made small, so that universities experienced in the study of fish farming will also be authorized to engage in such temporary research. Although this was not specifically discussed in the winter committee, it is clear that it is highly controversial whether fish farming should be allowed in a resuscitated area, such as the year 2000. In the Jacklands. They are part of the Horn of Patriot Peace, a unique region worldwide. It lay in the middle of the last century before roads and electric lines were constructed. The minority feels that such bulbs are important to the future and that they will enjoy their special status. So it is suggested that the change to Article 3. that the use of Jack's fish must be authorized. It's like I came in against what I said. We believe that the more important things are that those institutions who receive increased roles according to the bill will be co-approached with the bill so that they can take full control of their financial responsibilities. It is also the opinion of the section that fish farm monitors will be located near the location of fish farms. It is totally unacceptable that the situation is thus delayed because of the financial situation of these institutions, so it is particularly important to be looked at to to increase their funding, to form in a financial programme. One of the things that have been growing salmon in Norway for cleaning the last few years is salmon lice. Despite the fact that lice have developed in Iceland are just a fraction of what is in Norway, it is important that we learn from Norwegian experience and take appropriate action. Therefore, it is important that the rule on how to react to the lice is immediately established, and it will also set clear goals in this regard. In 2025, the smaller minority insists that governments declare that local fish farms are free of salmon lice. In accordance with the above, the lesser part suggests that a minister will be assigned to submit a strategy no later than 2021 with the aim of an Icelandic fish farm being worn out after 2025 and that only environmentally friendly methods of working at the hatch will be used. According to the Committee's review, lice eaters have been used in Icelandic fish farms. Therefore, the smaller part thinks it might also be useful for the operators to label the special packaging of the products that have been applied to lice. The minority still feels that there are important things to consider, so there is reason to agree with the law's declarations. Then there are special things like, for example. and ensure that the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder will pay income taxes in Iceland, but their income will not be paid to any other country, as it seems to apply in part to the aluminium companies. Encouraged by the memory of the item, the tax law will be considered in this context. Also, the smaller part is important to develop more and more incentives for innovation and development on environmental ways to fish farming, e.g. the use of closed heifers and land farms In the form of such inducers, there will be some look at factors such as temporary discounts of customs and reimbursement of cost taxes in building environmental management, and there are no doubt more good ideas to consider. Then, in the end, the smaller part agrees with the proposal of a greater portion, as mentioned earlier, to add a new provisional law that states that the law will be reviewed no later than May 1, 2024. As indicated by the members of the largest section, during the past few years much and rapid development has occurred in fish farms, and there is no evidence other than that it will continue rapidly in the coming years. We think it's important to plan for an international fish farm to be in the highest order and I think there's a lot of opportunities to do that. However, a clear rule of order needs to be guided, guided by sustainability, and given great consideration to the environment, nature, and society. Hence, it is urgent that the step now taken to update fish farming legislation become new. In addition to the fact that we are here, we are under the heading "Publices. " paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, participated in the contract of this opinion and agrees with it. Mr. President. I think I've tore up my basic suggestions on the subject and finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u52	President. First, I'm going to say thank you and compliment you. Councilmen who hold this minority party and are, that I think, agree, but also to those who do not sign, especially to whom they are. paritaprevir And the speaker of my part, Albertína the Friðbjörg the Elíasdóttir of Elias. I did well earlier on how we have worked together on this matter. I reiterate that it is not often that we commend one another or celebrate a great cooperation in this discourse, so I don't think it's too much to repeat it and thank them at the same time. A senator. I must say, I find my opinion of things very good, much of which are excellent ideas worth considering and professionally not only on the subject but also on the suggestions it offers. That's why I just want to ask you why. The senator's suggestions are very clear. 2nd Amendment is suggested that the bill be added to a new paragraph. One is that a Habitat Research Institute suggests that the switch between the distant or marine areas of a fire area and when it is ready and before the minister confirms it should be prominently introduced and given three weeks' delay to make comments. I think it's the best idea. But as it is suggested in the minority figure, there has been the development of a division of distant or marine areas in a firefield from the Oceanographic Institute and as a minister. A minister decides to divide distant or marine areas in a fire zone. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's details. Is it deliberate thought that it is a minister who has this authority and not a Meritional Institute? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u53	President. I also thank warm words to me from the bottom of my head. The head of more part, Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. This is a great question, because I didn't come in quite well on it earlier and I should have done it so I would have thanked you. A senator very much for the opportunity to explain this better. The reason we suggest that the minister arranges this exchange or advertisement to be offered a proposal from the Oceanographic Institute is simply that we received a tip when we were working the motion that Archipelago is not a administrative agency, and hence it would be abnormal that Archo was given the role of advertising the proposal, making comments, and evaluating them. The Ministry would, in fact, be better off than the Oceanographic Institute. It is not in itself an alternative to being careful about the role of the ARM as an institution in all of it. Also, I think doing this is a good thing. I've got plenty of time here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u54	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u55	I think this is an important suggestion in many ways by working to ensure the introduction of the public to the new coastal areas, how they are used. This opens the door to an important opportunity for the public to have a view of the location of fish farming in the area, which I think is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u56	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would like to say that I actually agree with the proposal and agree with the final words of which. A senator's translation of the importance of people's ability to promote their views there. However, I'm going to state that I am putting a specific question mark on giving this authority from a CREEP Institute to a minister, but I hope we can discuss this on the committee. I can't see a flat on a surface other than that we could find a mutual solution, because it seems like we're going to be the same. In that light, I also want to ask a suggestion about the 23rd team. For there is a new law, a rod, where I am, and where I am. A senator has spoken about knowing that we will revise that suggestion. I actually retracted the point of the greater part. It is suggested in the opinion of the memory of the part to confirm the application welcome for a specific date, March 1, 2019. Was it checked at work on these adjustments, and some committee opinion about how it was possible to make a valid date? I'm just a little worried that drawing a date to create a legal problem, that it doesn't do quite well, but it's something you're ready to sit over and look at. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have been properly examined for this change in whether this would last forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u57	Mr. President. As for the first thing, whether it be for a minister or for Frodo, I think it is, as it were. A senator mentioned that it is indiscriminately upon us to examine it. If that means that we can get together to secure the public access to this, I think it's the best thing to do. Of course, for the rest, we were given the opinion of a professor of vandalism at the University of Iceland on what would happen, in fact, we had all applications underneath, if they were to fail, and there was not thought to be any harm to it. In fact, I began to wonder if it was reasonable for us to have frozen the situation as it was when the case was presented. It would have been like doing it when considering, for example. sensitivity issues in markets or such. The minister would have suggested that the situation be frozen. I think it would have been very wise because, as the system is built up now, like the current permit application system when it's based on the first coming, first good. We're suggesting a change, and that's the principle, I think. It is my firm belief that with the changes we make in the new bill on how the applications will be dealt with, it will be just more powerful for the settlements, for nature in every way, that the applications will be addressed according to the conditions set out in the new legislation, because they will be looked to exactly in their interest, not whether someone was pushing to the Food Institute and Organization before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u58	Mr. President. We will discuss incredibly important and exciting topics related to fish farming. We are faced with unique opportunities to shape a regular work for a industry that has passed through a wide range of waves throughout the ages. In the last seven years, fishing has slowly grown in Iceland. I have to admit that the short time I spent in the water management and agriculture department was a fishing industry one of the most interesting subjects you had to do, especially because there are many opportunities for an Icelandic community to contribute to an increase in wealth, but at the same time, the challenge for us in politics to shape the legal environment, employment, social and natural environment so that the sector will last longer. We need to have the courage to ask questions, to question challenging questions, face the challenge of searching for answers, and the first answers are not necessarily the right ones when considering them. As noted, on a very important trip to Norway, I would like to thank both the head of the Committee and the head of the story, as well as the president. But at the same time, I'd like to, so that I don't go on to say that it was extremely clever when we were out on this important journey, which was very well organized and we were visiting just places where we could look for information that we needed and answer to the Greek questions, was a contingency so that the fish business was set up on a program without the presence of the committee and without the presence of the committee here at home. It's amazing. It's amazing. This, in part, underscores the program management that has been at the council and now confronts everyone in these last days. But that's another story. We're talking about the fish fire, and I want to know that there's a lot of stuff in this case that's fine. It's changed very positively, but not as if I'd wanted to see them, but there's some very important changes there. Of course it's tempting for government opposition, and I'm going to describe that there's a lot of parishes, if you can talk about parishies, for government opposition to come here and hack certain factors, but I'm not going to go there. It is so important that we try to use whatever opportunities we have to build up the powerful business that fish fishing can become. But then everyone, including the fish farmers, including the communities around the fish farm, has to listen to the normal requirements for environmental protection and protection around the country. There are many things to say about the political bitch, but we took very reasonable steps at the time, I guess it wasn't 2005 or 2006, when Prime Ministers and all Congress, remind me, supported the limitation of fish farming to Iceland. We know this story. It was decided to say: Iceland is largely shut down for fish farming except at certain locations, in the West, in the Eyjafjörður - and well - meaning, there has not yet been distributed, the burden - tolerance and the risks - and then the east. I think it was a good decision. They were trying to move on, and we were able to imitate it in a sense in other places. And what has happened? This is a message to those who want to go to innovation, to pioneers. The Kingdom has set a specific frame. Then it is important that such advice be trusted and built up so that it can be continued. Evolution has been booming, but in the last six, seven years, fish fire has evolved, so it can be said to be and to build up. Will we yield to the demands of fish farming? No. Do you recognize the increased demand of an important community in the case of fish farming, such as southern Western Europe? No. Rather, I am convinced that if we dare set up requirements for animal protection, for the information, for the structure, for the structure, for which we Iceland are on the road to fish, for the most strict price on fish farms, we will be exposed to the highest prices for every salmon taxon that comes from Icelandic fish farms rather than anywhere else. We need more, too. I've been over it before in this chair what we have to do so that Iceland and I are competitive with large fish breeders like Norway, who now have over 1.1 million tons and are going to go up to 5 million tons in 2050, and Chile, who have about 500,000 and are going to go to at least Up to 700,000 tons. We've become very powerful and trapped in the market, and we've got a very strong market position because they said, "We're going to make the most stringent rules. They've got 75,000 tons now. How, then, will we compete in such a market? We do so on the basis of quality, and by all knowing that we will be dealt with in Icelandic nature with caution, with sustainableness and scientific standards guided. We have a responsible profession. Although strict demands now may be a little uncomfortable, may create a certain insecurity in sensitive communities, I am convinced that this will give us lasting strength for the long term. We will not end up in fish farming like the minks. We will build up for an extended period of time, and we need to do so. We're talking about sustainability in this process, environmentally sustainable, but it's also a form of social sustainability. We have to look to the community around the fish fire. But that community must also understand the natural requirements of those who are concerned about the environment and the requirements we make for fish farming. It was fragile and still fragile, and it was illustrated in the reviews of the case. This was also shown in the conclusion of the committee appointed back then and returned over a year and a half ago. It represented fish farms, fishing companions, wild salmon people, and salmon fishing rivers, and then the Ministry. There was also a representative of the Environment Minister, a good sign. It was extremely important afterward, to make this credible. This was a decisive conclusion and a unanimous agreement to build around the risk assessment. I'm going to commend the government for trying to build around the risk assessment. I may not have thought it to begin with, but I didn't feel that she did it out of a lot of ambition. I feel that all committees have tried to strengthen the risk assessment. This is the key to achieving the long - term reconciliation in the development of fish farming. I was not going to name those who had to go out of their way to rock the Merro. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think it's important that we emphasize scientific counseling. The risk assessment is based on scientific criteria, the risk assessment of the gene pool we should use. Is it perfect today? No, but we've seen how Frodo's fishing counsel has evolved over the years. Was it perfect, 1983? 1990? No, but we have seen that we made wise decisions, that the political power does not eventually move what Edro's adviser says every time because of fishing laws. This has been a success for us. That is why it is so important that the lawgiver gives the signal that we are not going to interfere with the risk assessment of genetics. I think very much about it as soon as I agree that a four - year - old meeting committee should be appointed. It is a committee that we should have infested pastures and even others to build responsible fish farms, including some of them. on the grounds that we're here, the legislature of the council, put them. How do we follow it? How can we improve? Where are the baits? But the fact that this committee is authorized to go even. reviewing the risk assessment of genetic mix, reviewing the scientific advice of Edro, the weakness of my opinion. I know that within the majority of them are people who agree deep down with me in this regard. However, in view of the natural need to achieve a measure of harmony among the more part of the council, this was a legal compromise. The compromise is that they are added to a representative from the Environment and Resource Minister. It would've been sooner, though. I'm not gonna blame him. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, Kolbeinn Proppér, because he's fixing this, but I don't think it's the government and the government's leadership to have allowed this case to go through without making a comment on this exact point. The risk assessment should really be considered. Were these questions raised within the government by the left green? Should genetic preparation be reconsidered? Is it really that way? Are we going to have a meeting committee on fish farming, and there's no one from the Environment Ministry or its representatives? Of course it doesn't work. It's naturally part of the council's treatment that it's the council fixing a very big bait, but it doesn't go all the way, I'm sorry, but it fixes a very important bait. It's just our modern government that we connect the environment to the best of our ability. Are there sufficient demands on this matter? No. I would have liked to see much more motivation, and I would have encouraged us to go much sooner than later in a closed fire. I'd like to have seen to encourage the fish farms to have live cameras from the heifers. Some have, and they have even begun to do so. Others have not. I think there's something important about transparency and credibility. I've been told how Scots do it. They are on their way to evolution, but they take great care and are very proud of their fish farms, have their fish on the table with the British royal family, and in other beautiful and good places to introduce the fish fire. They say: We cultivate slowly. They want to try to eliminate the hatch as soon as possible, to reduce it as possible. We grow cold, and there's not too much expansion. I want it to be working on such boundaries set here. In part, they're there, but it needs to be made much clearer. Now there are Scots, including. Fergus Ewing, minister of national affairs in Scotland, proclaim and provide new rules to increase information about salmon lice and the dangers of lard age among farmers. It is changing the rules so that they become tighter. It will be a standard guide that will be informed of a particular period of time, the criteria for salmon lice, which are somewhat affected in Scotland, but not as much as in Norway, are reduced. There will be fewer lice per fish allowed. We're supposed to pick up and exaggerate because we don't have salmon in the same range. Therefore, we must do much more in order to set stricter standards for those in need. This includes: to change proposals from the memory of the committee I support, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandrafjörður Elisabeth's Elíasdóttir for coming to the Convention of the minority, has done a great job in this regard. We suggest that the minister will set up an action plan on working on the need for a European fish farm to be free of lice by 2025 and if there are no lice in 2025, certain measures will be taken. So if a minister is to present a plan for nonstop fish farming no later than next year. We can go far more powerful and far more ambitious in the way we are going to build fish farms. I've only got a few things to do. I'd like to state that in all this discussion now about the end of Congress and the end of the matter, we've said, of course, we'll finish the fish fire. I think it's very important. I feel that there are certain members of the board who now want to slow down, and even I hear that the Central Party, which is actually on the committee, has suddenly begun to hesitate. There's obviously some pressure. But I agree with the people in the West, the local government who came to the committee and said, "We don't want this uncertainty anymore. We just want clear lines, and we want this case to be done. And I think we owe them that. With a good conscience, I can say, there have been a lot of opinions in this process, and much of this has been an example in everything. So, yeah, we're supposed to finish this, but we have to take some time. I would have liked to see more ambition for the vision of the fish fire. There are pressure groups, both from nature - protection organizations, fishing communities, and then from the fishing fire and the surrounding community. At the council, we should show that we are looking for the best ways to develop this important sector by taking a high rate of environmental factors into account. I'm once again stressing the risk assessment, that's not to be taken lightly. Do not be messing with it or reduce your teeth from the risk assessment. Don't offer something that becomes a political policy. I'm warning you, and I'm gonna let myself hope that you're trying to unwind that thing with the changes in the part, many of which are good. I'd also like to state that I'm very happy to be putting in temporary contracts until 16 years of age. The whole matter is certainly a common resource, the access to fishing grounds, sea zones. I find such permission extremely important, while we're about to establish a constitution or we're starting to introduce it. The same is true of us, however, when we speak the mackerel. It's a little strange, but at the same time, I think this is the basis for further reconciliation with fish farms. This is part of the fact that I and we are ready to take that approach and speak to it, although in a critical manner, when it comes to environmental matters, we feel that we do not feel that we have enough to do about it. However, temporary negotiations are extremely important and, in effect, a certain way of beauty competition is being done, as it were. It is a specific auction, taking into account certain factors that the parties can install. I think it's an interesting experiment. I'm not necessarily sure that it's perfect, but it's certainly an experiment that the state can get the best of its license, taking into account the scope of the situation itself, and the effects of those who are offering the permits. I'd like to state that I'm glad that more of the Committee is pulling back the deadline for the 23rd license. par., to the 18th Amendment of the transition. It's funny, and I agree with my executive part that we might have been rather frozen by all the applications at the input of the bill. I heard earlier that we were wondering if we had been wondering about this in our memory. Yes, we did. We were asked to attend a meeting of the Supreme Court's Supreme Court to review certain factors. I also use my legal expertise to believe that by doing this, I follow a moderate degree. Of course, more than what cannot be done can be considered, it is a suspicion of publishing that the matter is presented simply because of some connection or something else. We must be careful that equality values are permitted. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we present this adjustment proposal, a smaller section of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] But I pray to the highest. Mr President, putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u59	President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. A senator for the topic of speech and work on this matter. It is such a matter that it is too easy to be indiscriminate or to find a way to criticize just and in no way want to work with it, perhaps to ruin it. This has not been the case. I really feel like will in that direction. A senator came in, that we'll be at peace with this very controversial industry. You're absolutely right. To make peace, a senator says that people must yield to their strict demands. They need to listen to other viewpoints and meet together - but never compromise when it comes to basic environmental and natural requirements. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's first entry into her final talk about the adjustment of the proposals we drew back for the permit. The reason I asked him why. The head of the minority opinion Albertína of the Elíasdóttir of Elisabra is merely the thought of the date. I have no doubt that we have the authority to decide that applications will fail. I'm only wondering if a date is the best way to do that. I think our will is clear. We've been speaking to him, and he's made it clear in the committee's opinion. We want to close the door after the old system and move the environment into the new system. Then I think of it as our final solution together to figure out which way is best for it. That is why I ask sincere questions about this date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u60	Mr. President. Yeah, we covered it pretty well, and the occasion was even different. Reports related to leaves and applications in the room. They knew that there was an increase in applications after the case was presented. For some reason, fish farms prefer to be inside the old system rather than the new one. However, I believe that there is a need for us to show a measure of moderateness and understanding. We thought after reviewing this it would be fair for the applications that were entered into the system before the development, but then those that came into the new system later. Of course, there are other ways to find out, and I am, of course, ready to do so. We need to find the way, not the best way - I'm not gonna tell friends and relatives, but I think we should. A senator understands what I mean. The responsibility is ours, who are in here. That's why I want a special heel. A senator who obviously understands his responsibility in the sense that we are building an article that is delicate and controversial. We need to try to draw some lines of reconciliation and get it together because we have the goal and the basis for it. Everything that leads to suspicion is not good for such articles, not good for communities, whether they are from the West or from the East, or for others involved in the development of fish farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u61	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. She was in her first speech about the importance of reconnecting with the Environment Ministry and the Communications Committee. I agree with that, and I point out that, in fact, we're making up more places on the bill. by looking also for information about the natural institution when it comes to switching to fire zones. - I'm sure now I'm confusing institutions, I don't have paper in front of me. At the very least, it has been linked again to the protection laws of nature. But in view of what happened. A senator said, both in response to my answer and in the same way as in his speech, I'm just going to let myself be optimistic about our reaching a good conclusion that most people can accept in this matter. I started writing about fish farming a long time ago because I pretended that both the articles themselves and critics, environmentalists and politicians wanted the place to be a guard of certain things. I sensed that there was a possibility of being more content with this controversial article than it was then. I still believe that it is possible, and I believe that the latter opinion of more part is a step in that direction. I believe that my body's opinion is also a step in that direction. Now it is clear that we will bring the matter into force between 2 and 3. and work harder on that. I sincerely hope that we can simply combine these committee views, withdraw each other's proposals into one opinion, and combine them. I think it's going to be the best message we can publish in the community in terms of fish farming and in terms of protecting environmental factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u62	Mr. President. It's always this with the political bitch, when we can go over being truthful, not just devilish and devilish and go back to the old states just to be opposed. When something that was not relatively good has actually improved, and it has actually become much better than one in the heart who had the courage to hope, then it should be said - and not use the case as such to arouse everyone in the community, even if such an opportunity exists. It is political opportunity for the opposition to do so. I reiterate: I think long-term ambitions, environmental demands, healthy and normal requirements for fish farmers are small. I also feel that there is no clear message that we want to continue building up our community, although I know that the mind is in the hands of all members of the committees to build up, including the U.S.A. The communities in the West and East, and the payments we receive for fish farming are entering the community. Because there is a large budget for rural development in these areas associated with fish farms. We cannot overlook that. I would have wanted to see an even more decisive step in handling it. I would also have liked to see, and I could about it in my talk, clearer demands on closed cooking equipment or closed heifers, unfertilized salmon. I might spend one speech on unfertilized salmon and the demands, but we can go this way, it's such a unique opportunity. Therefore, it was so fun to be involved in this process, and although there is greater and minor opinion and we will sit by, even against something, but in most cases, it is still that we see the conversation returning to the majority, and I am grateful for it. I think it matters. I also find it interesting to see that it is important to have guests on the committee and to listen to their common sense. For that, I want to thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u63	President. At first, I'd like to say that I will not be able to vote with this case. Although I can vote with certain articles in the matter, I cannot vote for the whole case. It's really very simple for me. It is a policy that the Piras have agreed on in their open and democratic electronic system that does not authorize it, and then there are mainly two factors, regarding the precautions and the payment policy. It says in our course, with the permission of a president: The Commission shall base on the safety precautions and the payment order for all decisions relating to Iceland's nature. In this bill, two main steps are being taken: one is to allow a much wider fish farm than at the same time a much more powerful environmental framework is to be set, not a good frame, but in the right direction. So there are gaps in this matter, and as other speakers have said, such as before. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, if I understood her correctly, is beyond what you could have expected. The caution is only that if there is a risk of serious or irreversible consequences from some type of activity, in this case fish fire, the lack of scientific conviction is not used as a reason to postpone. The best information has to be done. If information is not sufficient, then natural values will benefit from the doubt when it comes to e.g. biodiversity, i.e. if a fertile cook escapes from these open places, and goes up into the river, and spawns are mixed, and stocks are mixed together. There's no way to make sure it's not on the bill. This is to happen sometime. They're supposed to set up some kind of dams or fishing stairs or something the salmon have to go through if they're going to get up into the river, that's one of the things I asked on the committee. They can be photographed there to see if they are farmed or not from the pictures. I'm told that in Norway, they're after salmon. But there are other ways. The fish can be killed in this ladder. There is one thing that could be done. If the most advanced technology was used, as the bill so often puts it, we could avoid the use of cooking salmon that can get into the rivers to spawn. Technology is there, I'm told. However, the lack of it and the approval of the bill is being agreed on before it appears means that the precautions are not followed and include: That's why I can't accept this bill. Regarding the payment policy, it simply means that the person who is contaminated pays. If someone harms the environment through their actions, fish farming in this case, they should be paid for this damage. I can't see it happening if it escapes a load that goes up stairs and there's enough equipment to take a picture of the salmon and see if it's a farm salmon. I don't see it in the bill that the fish farms are supposed to pay for sending men to the place to pick up the fish. However, there are other measures to reduce the risk. There are overcrowded nets or 200 yards [200 m] out of them. There are several ways in which the precaution and payment directive do not meet. I came in late myself. I was put on a professional committee, where our chief member of the Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, had to be a lot abroad. I came in late to finish this, so I approached the matter a little in the big context and thought, " What is this case really doing? Yes, there is a fish farm, and it is being increased, increasing the environmental protection and reducing the risk of the fire. But why are we doing this at first? We want it to be a thriving industry in the country. We want the valuables created by the fish fire, the jobs it produces. The value of the material wealth comes to both the community and the State. In order to get the overall picture of the valuables left in the community by the fish fire, I asked the Ministry to give me the information I shall follow. But I also began to ask, " What is the harm that the fish fire causes and leaves behind in the land? ' What does he look like? First, I'm gonna start with the value creation so that you can weigh and evaluate what you think about the issues on informed terms, what you think about this matter. Again, I say: I have to follow what says in Pirata's approved policy and cannot vote on the case, but I still felt that it was important to be able to approach it objectively and in an informed manner, so I asked for information. I asked about the built - in effects of fish farming in general from a valuable creation. It's an information direct from Haguems. Fish farming has grown a lot since 20123/42017 - these are the figures I received from the Ministry and were compiled from the Habitat Office - the business income has reached a minimum of 19 billion, so it's a reasonable dimension. The value of production is over 20 billion. 2 Billions there are cost of management, total sales and services of 15 billion, pay costs 3 billion, cost of social security over half a billion. During this five - year period, the number of workers has passed out from 250 to less than 440. Then I'd like to ask, "How much of it will be left over? ' The number of workers has increased greatly, and they are also thinking about secondary jobs, the work of working the fish, and so on. There was one before. A member of the committee who pointed out that they would not remain in the country. The valuables that are created and the activities of the local fish will not necessarily remain because today there are fishing ships or freight ships that sail up to North Noregs to vacuum the fish from the heifers and sail it to Denmark, where it is worked. Thus, it is not necessarily how important it is for the people of the country to know that work in connection with winning the fish and remaining in Iceland. There's something that could vacuum. In fact, we're just renting out a TV space by expanding their external environmental impact, but we don't leave the rest in the country, i.e. the increased jobs that might be possible, and many people think of and look to as one of the reasons for being willing to accept the environmental costs of employment. If, as mentioned in the Committee, the cost of workers is perhaps seven times smaller in some countries where you can sail, inside the Baltic Sea, but in Iceland, there is something that might be very profitable to do. But let us look for jobs and secondary jobs, not necessarily. In terms of funding, I don't seem to be well-approached enough for the thin self-finishing lid. For people to understand what it means then, it means that the value created by breeding companies, the income tax that most companies have to pay to the State does not return to the government if they are some foreign mother society that lends fish farms in Iceland, controls interest, and controls interest, so that businesses at home have to pay off the loan to a mother society that so gives them credit. It's called the thin self-finance. Most Western nations have come to an end. In Iceland, something's gone wrong, including 'Cause the aluminium companies in Iceland have been doing exactly that work, at least for a very long time, which means that the income tax from that production does not yield to Iceland. This is also important to watch if we watch global interest from having fish farms in Iceland, what we leave behind from valuables and jobs, and what is left behind in the form of environmental talk. In terms of the environmental impacts, fish farming can be maintained at very low risk for the environment. One thing is that it can be brought up on land. It takes a lot more electricity, so we look at greenhouse effects, etc. or to use electricity for other production and need to be viewed in context. If this is done at sea, environmental costs or external effects can be greatly reduced, adverse external effects can be observed on the environment. Today, it appears that every two weeks the bottom of the ocean, both under the heifers and elsewhere in the fish fire, is dived into the ocean floor and examined in this regard. This includes medicines and these, but high levels of medicine may cause antibiotic resistance and these castor lice, which include the medicines. wild salmon can also be infected with natural food. That's what matters. It was our suggestion in the memory that medication should be prescribed, and of course, alternatives to medications should be used. There are other methods, such as using hot and cold water and other methods that can be used to remove salmon lice. If you use the best possible technology that is spoken of in the bill, you can do things in a much environmental way and even you can say very environmentally, if that is, for example. you can prevent genetic mixtures by setting up dams that the fish have to go through and kill them if they are photographed and computerized, as well as by fin size and so on. This can be done in a much environmental way so that the precaution is much better followed and nature is left to the doubt, more than it is now. If you look at the overall interest in it, this bill is being done much better than it is now. When it comes to voting on the matter, I've talked to the Congress about it, but no doubt that in the light of Porta's approved policy. However, we will vote with certain good principles of environmental protection that are clearly being inserted into the bill. I've examined and investigated the benefits and defects of the bill and interest, what's left in the form of some kind of environmental talk and then some valuable thing, and overall I'd say this could be done much better about those factors. I would want to see, in fact, linked to this, but also to a great deal of other factors, that a thin self-finance was banned by law in Iceland, as most Western nations have done, so that a company cannot avoid paying income taxes in Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flurburfjörður Elisdóttir wrote to the committee's least opinion, and I came to her with it, and this is related to a case at the same time, suggested as a resource charge. This is a resource push, which is exactly what it is. It is taking advantage of the combined resource of all the people of the country, which is this visual space to create valuables and it would be very natural to set resource costs, as if the production in Iceland uses a common resource by attending the centres and catching wild populations around the country. We feel that it is only natural to base on that foundation to obtain resource expenses. Then, of course, it is Martyrta's policy to offer no new rights in terms of our sea resources. But we would like a minimum of the distance that has gone by today so that those using the national common resource will pay for that resource. That's in our suggestion. Let us see how the vote about her goes to the Assembly Hall. Regarding the future, there have been two basic issues of government consultation on the change to the Constitution. On the one hand, there is a bill on the change in the Constitution of natural resources in Iceland and on environmental matters. Then it would be interesting to see how this bill would fit into that standard if it would be accepted as if it had been inserted into the consultation puzzle. It says, with President's permission, about the environment: Iceland's natural nature is the basis of life in the country. The responsibility for protecting nature and the environment rests together on all, and the protection should be based on a precautionary and long-term basis using sustainable development. It should be supported by the maintenance of biodiversity and the growth of biodiversity and maintenance. All shall enjoy a wholesome environment. The public will be able to travel through the land and stay there for a legitimate purpose. - It doesn't matter here. - The natural world will be well cared for and respect the interests of landowners and other rights. Clearly, the rivers where wild salmon is present are not guaranteed by rights and rights. This is not guaranteed properly by the bill. But I will continue, with the permission of a president: It must be further checked in the laws on the content and limitation of the public rights. The law shall recommend the right of the public for information on the environment and the impact of its implementation as well as for the preparation of decisions that affect the environment. There are precautions and long-term reasons, but precautions are not well followed. It is not a substitute for the interest of landowners or other rights when it comes to wild salmon rivers and it is not putting up the technology that is actually needed to prevent genetic mixing, i.e. that a fertile cook that escapes from the heifer does not go up to the river and spawn. It's not stopping it. This law, in my opinion, would not pass the rules of a bill on the change in the Constitution of environmental protection now under government consultation. For the resources bill in Iceland's nature, that's where it says, by permission of the President: ▪ The natural resources of Iceland belong to the Icelandic people. The use of resource resources should be based on sustainable development. Natural resources and land rights not dependent on private rights are national property. No one can get this quality or rights related to them for a possession or permanent use. I'll step outside the text a little bit. The bill says that the right to use is only 16 years of age that creates no special rights, so it seems to me at least in this respect to meet the views in the bill to change the Constitution of resources in the nature of Iceland that is in the government's policy. I'm going on: ▪ The laws of the legislature and the executives take custody and their provision of the nation's rights. Residents of natural resources and national rights belonging to national property or owned by the Icelandic state shall be based on law, and should be controlled with equalness and transparency. According to the law, remuneration for a profit is required. The law in this case refers to some kind of currency. It is not as far as it is going, though, when it comes to using our common fish resources in this bill, it is going a little shorter than it is, so the nationals are getting less common resources for the use of the common resource, which is submersive of this resource than when the output is used to feed the resource. Also, different people have taken up the material for the benefits it will bring, i.e. valuables and interests for the community and work. That's even. Based on a report from a Based agency I am referring to, and then there are figures from a KPMG report made for Vestandi contact. I suggest that people learn about it, but also look at it in the context of who would like this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-12-121.u64	A respectable president. We are here discussing a significant matter, which is a change in various laws related to fish farming. First, I would like to agree with my colleagues who have come up here with thanks to those who work on a job committee and have come to this matter. It has been the full integrity that all of us have tried to achieve this, and all of us have tried to aim toward strengthening the legal environment of this work, which is to be built up, and we all agree to do so as best to allow it to grow and grow and return to its national structure. We may have a small disagreement about where to go, but it is important that we have agreed on it - and I think we can reach an acceptable conclusion compared to this - to make sure that this will be done well. Because if we make that decision, it's for our communities, the environment, and the work that we can build up for the future so that we can't find anything else. It's all about it. Of course, there are differing opinions about the fishery. We have seen that many people are afraid, afraid that open water is dangerous to the environment and wild salmon stock. There have also been reports that this wide - open heifer cannot be called because it has become quite different. We're going into the third and fourth generation of fish breeds and we've been burned in previous generations. Now that we're going to do better, we're also building on the experience and technology that will come and take place. In this regard, I think it is of utmost importance to agree that we are taking care of the article and assume that all technology changes and knowledge in these matters will come about by improving the environment so that everyone will be like you. That's what matters. In the end, in this bill, we expect the law to be reactivated and considered no later than May 1, 2024. There's a lot of things that can happen until then. Also, we've only begun to anticipate the effect this will have on us. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir concluded that at baseline the risk assessment was not adequately and not sufficiently evaluated. I might just object, pointing out that it has been the main line to try to build the risk assessment rather than to take it out, and I think it matters. One of the most important things in this relationship is the counterrequisite action that I consider to be key. It is being legalized into the risk assessment that these measures should be taken into account. They're divided up. In the first place, risk assessment is to take into account the measures applied by the operators in this relationship, such as light control, larger waste disposal, and less memorizing. This is to stop it from being run away. But if we were to escape, we would use counter measures. We'd try to get the fish that'll probably get into the rivers. And these are just the methods that are used in Norway and taken for granted. I believe this is a key to our chance of working together and protecting the wild salmon population because we're about to. So we're doing these counter-important operations to promote environmental management and a better deal with other interests, I think I am. Then there is another, health care. We want to underline them, and I think it's the common will of all the business involved, whether it's the business companies or the communities. Health of animals and the environment is the basis for building up the work for sustainable development based on ecology, social and economic support. This points are viewed in new laws with new requirements, yet they are meddled in stone. The official must then monitor the development of this article and ensure that the operation will be handled with utmost care. I think this is an important point, to consider the health issues, which are then, e.g. An epidemic of lice and fish, as well as other diseases, can use environmental techniques and ensure that we will always be looked forward to protecting the environment we are using. There's a lot of things we're trying to think about in this relationship and I'd like to mention, because there's been a couple of acts and the spokesman of the case, OK? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, came in, that we want to reenter the committee regulations regarding the allowing forces. We wanted to draw a line where we could assume that we were putting some doors or fences in front of the old bill, in terms of the old songs and the new ones, and any uncertainty will be removed as to which permit applications are in accord with the old bill and who will have to consider new laws. When the committee's opinion was published, there was some uncertainty about the identity of applications. And I don't want to say anything. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, said that we were bringing in the interests of someone else. We're just looking to allow those who are very far in the process, no matter what the companies call them, they're not pulled out. We're even talking about an eight-year process, which we'd be unplugging, starting again with the new bill. This may not be what we thought and wanted to draw a clear line, but it may be somewhat vague. I hope there are some conclusions we can all accept in this regard. It is of utmost importance that we are somewhat clear about this and that we do not turn the bill away so that we still have the uncertainty of the subject. I think it's the foundation that everyone needs, both partners and businesses, that people know what they're doing. In this relationship this also has to be very clear, as I said, and I think it's our meaning that we get it this way. We've been over here discussing the benefits of the fish fire, and I think it's just a big deal. I think it's got bigger issues that we're putting together for the Senate and the pro board. This is important to all of us; each point is important in this regard. I have a few points that have been put together for fish farming on the West. We're talking about we have a preliminary and structurally-rated risk assessment of 80,000 tons. However, we do not have a risk assessment just that. In this regard it could be said: If we had 70,000 tons of fish on Western soil, it could provide some 65 billion total prices, meaning 730 bones and 420 derived. Each year the tax would be 2.8 billion, and we might see 700 million running into the countryside. This is a big deal. I was in a meeting this morning, where the West Side Office introduced a number of scenarios in the future of the West. This was the case. By doing nothing, this might continue in some uncertainty, and uncertainty may be the worst of what you live in. That is why we need to be a little clear about this. If we give certain clues, we keep our word, we stand our course, we could see this picture a little clearly. Then maybe after 15 years we're talking about it. Then we'll find that we meant what we said by building for this operation, and then we're making this country sustainable and uncertain. There's something else I'd like to mention in this relationship, and I might like to agree with a review from the Environment and Transport Committee on the bill, a very nice bill, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ In such habitats as fish farms, the main challenge lies in finding and maintaining a balance between natural and natural protection. Fish farming in open water depends on many environmental factors, causing stress on them, close and far away. In the opinion of the Committee, it is reasonable to require that such farming be the most sustainable and develop progressively in a sense of sustainable sustainability. The Environment Committee is accepting the work that has been carried out on a job committee and we hope that we will be able to return, so that we can work on the structure rather than to stop. I may have introduced the factors I wanted to emphasize in this matter, but it is always a matter of taking a course and keeping it in place, putting into practice how important it is for my communities and the areas in the vicinity, like in the Westfjords and the East. That's a huge deal there. This morning's meeting at the West Coast pointed out that society and Western society were competing not only with other parts of the country for people and communities but also for competition with the rest of the world. That's what matters. That we can get up from work on the bill and give away that we are making them more competitive communities on a global scale. Then I think it's all come to pass.
