ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u1	There's been a letter from Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, 2nd. South, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. South, Vilhjálmur Árnason, 9th. South, Árnadóttir Þóra Arjörður, 6th. Smoke. n., Kolbouri Óttarsson Proppér, 6th. Smoke. So, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter, 8th of them. That's the north side. , and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, the 12th. We're out of here. "that they will be absent next time in public affairs. Today, therefore, in the United States, the World Council of the United States of the United States, Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir, 2nd Preeminaries of the Southern District, Páll Jóhannsson Sigmundsson, 1st Prefect of the District of Independence, Jónína Konráðsdóttir Konsádósdótir, 2nd Prefecture of the Left Motion, Reykjavík's National District of the North, Álfheiður Björk, while the Avarman of the Arts of the Arts, has proclaimed by the National Reserve of the Left Council of the South Council of Reykjavík, Orri, a representative of the Middle Council of the North, Þorgrímur of the North, and District of the National Council of the United States, Óskarsdóttir. They have all been invited to serve at the General Assembly before, and they are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u2	Earlier today, Vice President I took on behalf of the Generals' signature list by our representatives of the Institute of Energy on the third energy package. The business has been presented in a reading hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u3	Before the session, the president would like to report that Árnadóttir is working today as the office manager of the II Parliamentis. The president kindly welcomes a new office manager to work, expecting a good and successful cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u4	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of consent to postpone the General Assembly meeting at Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from September 2 September 2019, or later, if necessary, to September 10, 2019.◯ The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u5	A respectable president. I vote with the case. Over the years, the matter has been working at the council and considering and treating, both being heavily overcrowded and excluded in the process. The work on the Committee was also extensive and extensive, and many experts shed light on the matter, answering questions that have arisen. I agree with the third energy package because what's about us, consumer protection with increased monitoring of energy monolification status, is positive and is in accordance with the course of the Independence Party. However, most of the items discussed are not done in the current energy policy debate, but third energy package does not make any difference, whether by converting sea cable, full power control of our resources, or the equations of distribution costs or otherwise. Let's talk about energy, protect our resources, and how we do it to improve our quality of life, and the third energy package will not change anything there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u6	A respectable president. When people have speculation and a measure of fear about such issues as the energy package, it is normal to listen and answer. In addition, in the past nine years, the whole Icelandic government system under different categories has carried out exactly what it was to do, to pursue Icelandic interests, and to protect Icelandic interests. The energy package isn't about a sea cable, it doesn't go against the constitution, it doesn't take in any way... [[A hairsick in the Senate.]] [[The president calls.]] The energy package isn't about sea cables, it isn't against the constitution that all of us council here have sworn that in no way they take energy resources out of the hands of our Icelanders. [[A hairsick in the Senate.]] He guarantees a stronger Icelandic government government. Large users no longer have the power of monotonous positions to receive cheap electricity at national expense. He guarantees competition, freedom, he ensures the position of consumers, and he continues to ensure the firmness of our Icelanders in cooperation with other sovereign nations. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the Parliamentary Party will vote with this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u7	The president kindly asks visitors to keep a sound in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u8	Mr. President. Few island nations are more precious than close relationships and cooperation with the outside world, and in fact, mankind faces such challenges that we cannot solve them unless we work a lot together. The vote here is part of a huge deal that has brought great happiness to us Icelanders. Most of the induction, however, has a direct effect on us because we are not directly linked to a European electricity market. However, because of the discussion, it is proper to state that we are not opposing a constitution. We're not giving in to the authority to decide for sea cables, where, when, and whether to be activated. However, let us take advantage of this discussion as an incentive to accept a new constitution with a clear provision for having the nation's resources. The Conspiracy will vote with this induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u9	President. I've heard of people who are concerned that the third energy package will make us powerless to sell electricity in Europe. This is the concern I've heard a lot over the past few days, but nothing in the documents that are being discussed today will change anything about the government's custody of natural resources, nothing. It appears that a conflicting case against the third energy package was designed to raise doubts and to undermine trust. There was a lack of trust, so it does not help either. This does not change the fact that nothing in the third energy package gives any indication of further activations in Iceland's nature or that the cable will be laid. I will vote on the facts, not on suspicion and propaganda. According to this, I would vote for further activations that will destroy Iceland's unspoiled nature, but that's not what this case is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u10	Mr. President. We're taking care of here and now and at last a pact proposal for the so-called third energy package which has caused severe and long-lasting withdrawals in the Generals' work. We in the left movement ◯ Green supply take careful consideration of warnings, research, even our own research, expert opinion and discussion. We have reason to believe that, still, there will be a full custody of the nation's electricity resources and its use, and therefore I will pay and the rest of the VG votes with the approval of this synonym in a good partnership with other members of the council who do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u11	A respectable president. The end should be examined at the beginning. We've introduced two energy packages. This is number three, third out of five. It is clear that the main objective of the induction of this energy package is just one, and it is a common internal market for electricity in Europe. There is a shortage of green energy in Europe. It is obvious to me that the energy package is not focused more on what is, in fact, the induction of the energy package. It is the common internal energy market in Europe, that is continuing to drive, to get us under the command at Brussels, and the people's party say: No, thank you, on the induction of this policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u12	V.E.G. President. We're going to vote on a pack of three energy, first about the removal of controlled warning, later on on about what is really contained in a pack of three, including about the owners' separation of transport companies where we received an exception. The discussion has been about many other things, preferably the things that are not contained, that we are somehow giving up the authority of resources, that there is an abnormal supply of power. It's a British, respectable president that someone would approve of it and have been thoroughly disturbed. The discussion here will ultimately be the focus of the sea cable fixation. That is and will always be the decision of the Generals and will be further assured of our agreement today. We candidates stress that the resources of the nation are shared, and we want such regulations in the constitution, and that the energy companies are to be owned by public property. But there is another and further discussion. A respectable president. We candidates agree on this matter with the presupposed here for the basic structures that might connect with the EU energy market, that they will be built only by the survival of the Council and the review of the legislation on the basis of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u13	A respectable president. The longest discussion in the history of the United States has ended and finally came to a vote. The discussion has taken 150 hours, and it is good to remember that the Norwegian Council spent four and a half hours discussing the exact same issue. It may be said that the matter is fully researched and that all questions have been answered. The third energy pack is not dangerous for Iceland. These are natural and good updates of the order of action approved 12 and 16 years ago. There is no doubt that a third energy package, as it is available, fits the constitution. With the approval of the Parliamentary decrees and the existing bills, we are adding even more to consumer protection. We are making sure, beyond what has been done so far, that there will never be a sea cable here but with the approval of the Generals. Decisions on how to use our resources will remain in the power field of those whom this channel and a energy package of three make no requirement for the privateisation of energy companies. Such decisions will always be on the hands of the government of the United States, and they do not allow privateization.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u14	A respectable president. Nothing here will be approved except in the third energy package. The point is, we cannot accept something that is not there. It is the contents of the pack that matter, not what others say about its contents. There is no doubt that the case is permissible. I don't know of any jurist who claims that there is no doubt about it. There was a doubt in the matter as it was last year, it was presented in the context of the discussion that came from the legal opinion, but the case we settled here is permissible. There is now, and there is no doubt, not from any point of view to me among the jurists. There is nothing in the case that leads to a cable, either directly or indirectly. There is no concern for energy resources above the head, either expeditation or rights to use. This isn't a state-of-the-art campaign, anywhere near it, there's no excess incentive for the continuum transfunctioner without a transponder cable and there's no privatization. I vote on this case for Iceland's interests, because I think it's in accordance with Iceland's interests. It strengthens competitive surveillance. But suspicion is about a new constitution, as we have seen, about national resources, records and clear boundaries of the sale of power, national law, and law. [[The president calls.]] But neither suspicion nor deceitful politicians will change what is contained in the package itself. I vote with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u15	President. We have arrived at a place where even Stefán and Friðrik, much mentioned in this discussion, says that by the way this package is done at the General Assembly, by putting it into the energy policy that it needs to be agreed by the Generals - some say it isn't enough, but it still needs to be approved by the Generals, which means that it can be done again in the future if it goes to the sea cable - that it doesn't go against the Constitution. Even they say so. I'll vote against the case because I'm just a bit of a stickler, with President's permission, that we're always slow and calm to move power out. We need to change the constitution so that it is perfectly clear that the nation's presence is needed in the case of exposition of the State. That's what the new constitution says. That's what we're talking about in a working group of St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, the way we gave up Kingdom power. Then the people's resources in it, as well as if they should then change the law, even if they are not absolute, to implement some kind of plan, fishing permit, or anything that has been approved for the promotion of government. [[The president calls.]] Then the people can call it to them. If this were present today, the third energy package could not be used in the tremendous panic propaganda it has been used to use and split the nation like this. The people could take it to heart, and that is what we need. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u16	Mr. President. This has been a very controversial subject, but the discussion has led to a rapid understanding of the past and, most important, summer. No one needs to wonder how the induction of the third energy package will have, for the European Union has answered it itself. In fact, it does with a description of the package's objectives. This is done by means of his work, for use in Cyprus. This has been done by rejecting Norwegian request for an exception, e.g. About the cables of their own population. And, of course, this has been done by recent lawsuits, on the one hand against 12 European states for not offering the rights of energy, of fortresses, and now, at the last, by lawsuits against Belgium, where men had imagined that politicians could do exactly what I hear most of those who intend to support the package today believe or at least claiming to believe that it is possible to do, but the European Union has already answered that it is not possible to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u17	A respectable president. In this discussion, I have noticed that there are often big differences between what politicians or others say about this matter and what is contained in the package itself. That's it. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson with a talk on several subjects in the European Union. I would like to encourage people to read that language, look it up, and study that language themselves. There's nothing to argue with. The senator argues against the third energy package, nothing, not the case against Belgium, not the case in Norway, not the matter against Cyprus. Please look at it yourself, don't believe us politicians, just look at it yourself. Truth will eventually look to the right place if people do research, but it will not be otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u18	Mr. President. There is good reason to encourage people to examine the matter themselves, and people have, in fact, done it. Many people have done so, and much more of the nation's population has concluded that they do not want this induction. Then let it go. Congressmen sees to come up here and here again and speak like the common people, as if the private supporters of their own party are not aware of this, and they, politicians, need to know what they're doing, they're being fooled, they're scared for no reason, etc. But if one resists the will of the voters in this matter and truly violates the will of a great deal of government supporters to finish it now, the case will not be over if one imagines it to end today. Then it's starting for real. Then this begins to have an impact for the future, and the effect is that this vote, and how people defend their votes here today, will not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u19	A respectable president. The role of the anti-continent is also the case. in providing upbuilding criticism, analysis, enlightenment, and clear social issues, and suppressing fear by being responsible members of society, working against the turning of Congress into the scene of tabloid evangelism and dictatorialism, combating the fact that there is a lawsuit on the shoulders of slander, narrowness, and fanaticism. The energy package is a warning to us as to our freedom, for there will be other matters that will be taken captive. It is a challenge for us not to allow political elements, such as the Central Party and its groups around the world, to design a series of events and to reverse the facts in order to get oneself out of a crisis and eventually to take over the power. There's nothing in my opinion other than political predators, and if you don't object to it, it will continue. It is the real threat of democracy and the independence of the land. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u20	Mr. President. The members of Congress who talk about decapitated democracy do not know what democracy is because much more part of this nation is opposed to this day, and those who do not obey the nation's call will eventually be held accountable, both they and their political organization. [[The point is, it's not true.]] There's a better time. But to say that by agreeing with this case today, people are doing the business of democracy in this country, Mr President, and it's wrong. It's something we shouldn't do because, as we've seen, this case doesn't end today. Don't forget today. [[Up front.]] Those who accept this matter will build themselves and their groups a long - term reed for the future. [[A hairsick in the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u21	The President has a right to keep a sound on the bars.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u22	President. I'd like to catch this ball, because now's the time. All classes, led by Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir, are working together to review Constitutions. If it's the real democracy of the Central Party and what. The senator who discussed the case here that the nation can bring a case to him is the possibility of a new constitution. It also contains an arrangement for government exposition, and it can be completed. It is in the Treaty, and it can be completed before the end of this terms as well as that the nation can bring a case to themselves if 10% of voters choose. If there is a real democracy, it's available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u23	A respectable president. Now it's finally time for us to vote on this subject, which has had a lot of discussion. It is very well prepared because there was a great deal of concern from the public in the country. All of them have been answered, but I hope that the discussion will continue. I think it's very important that we discuss matters, although not connected to the third energy package but which came into this discussion, whether it's the energy or the global interest care and in this case when it comes to the European Economic Area. Happily, for some time now, since we arrived at these matters, we have worked decisively to support the interests of our Icelanders. It's very important. In short, we do not have to consider the points, but the rest of the issues related are not, and it is of course, very important that we continue to discuss them. I vote with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u24	A respectable president. I vote with the case. All that has been said about the matter in a material sense has been said, but then I think that we need to keep in mind the nation's high General Call from 2012 on a new constitution that meets exactly all the concerns that people have expressed in this case, whether it concerns national sovereignty, national law, national property on resources, or the constitutions that we agree with here. It's all there. It's not in the third energy package. It's in a new constitution. Let's focus on what matters, from now on, the new constitution of the Republic of Iceland. The concerns I mentioned aren't logical to the third energy package when you're better able to look. I respect that people are worried about them, but I see a discrepancy between what people say about the third energy package and what I read in it myself. I vote with this package and will stand by that decision for the rest of my life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u25	A respectable president. That's the big time. We have seen in the community how the nation has woke up during the summer, during the discussion, that experts and people in general are concerned with the opposite sort of politics and natural. There have been great words throughout the earth and throughout the earth. The fact is, only this, that we've always talked about in Floki, and I've always pointed out: What is the goal of bringing in this energy package? Is it where we want to go, into a common Europe market? I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u26	Mr. President. We now vote on the Council's Misconception of the Foreign Minister on the third energy package so called. Twenty - five years ago, we agreed to negotiate cooperation with our neighbors in Europe. In that contract, there's a way to resolve a conflict like this, i.e. when individual nations are not satisfied or have some comment on the rules that the European Union is going to implement in the region. That's a good way. That way is open. That's a contract. Let's go where the contract itself says.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u27	Mr. President. This issue has been prepared at the International Assembly since 2010 with different governments and different categories. The members of all classes signed the committee's opinion of this matter at the time. I think it is well prepared, long-made, and fully completed at the Generals' scene, and well prepared by governments who have made clear warnings, and the following will also provide clear details on how to handle the proposal for sea cable repair if necessary. I will support this case, but I will use the opportunity and the name of the members of the council who are concerned about the various matters involved in the payment of this case to ensure national possession of resources in a constitution, to ensure that the place will be a security officer of the official ownership of important sources of energy, to stand to set a clearer set of laws on land and land purchases, and to ensure that the General Assembly is well equipped for energy and resources as we have heard concern about the public of the country. But it just doesn't have to do with this matter, so I support it. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u28	Mr. President. The people expect the Council to protect their independence and sovereignty in our beautiful land. Aggressive control of resources to land and sea is essential to this. Here is a proposal to execute judgment on the legal advisers of the government, Friðrik Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst and Stefánsson Már, the foreign institution of a decision they claim to take on plans, innovations, and dispositions of important Icelandic energy resources. It is shown that a constitution is not a strong word for it. An all - out body of the press is at a better option.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u29	Mr. President. Still no answer has been made why we should introduce this third energy package, how it works in Iceland. In fact, it has been used in an imported argument about consumer protection, which, when put in Icelandic circumstances, turns up in its resistance and revolves around the market of energy. It has not yet been established why the provision of the terms written in the EEA Convention should not be used to obtain an acceptable result. True, both the chairman and the vice president of the Independence Party have said very clearly in the discussion that such a law is active, could be used, and would not put the EEA community at risk. By going that way and actually changing the nature of the EEA agreement into some kind of contract that is not equal to the right hairs of countries but that includes the European Union's offer over us, the contract is being undermined. This case will be very damaging to Icelandic interests, and I will say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u30	V.E.G. President. With an energy pack of one and two in its own time, an adventure campaign was set out with us Icelanders and our authority over the beautiful energy resources of our country began to be impaired. Now we are on this uncertainty tour at the local location called a pack of three energy. I believe that now is the time to resist. We must not introduce a contract that could harm our interests. It is claimed that without a cable, we have nothing to fear, but it is likely that if a power company were to sue competitive national activation to ACER, the result would have to be that land activation, which is the highest market - powered, would have to be divided. This is the real world, so we have to go for it. I say no to an energy pack of three with all his patches, belts, and shoulders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u31	President. The fact is that a pack of three energy does not result in a violation of national sovereignty. It does not automatically translate the privatization of Land reactivation. He doesn't change Iceland's energy prices. It does not automatically open for the shape of a cable from the country. It does not involve experiencing the ownership of energy resources. The issues of a three - pack energy package are, in fact, small issues based on a number of European issues. The following is not to be forgotten that the EEA Convention has led to the development of issues that must be read in particular by national sovereignty. We have, and so we will continue. Finally, it must be remembered that the cover that the Central Party has used in this case must not be repeated to the people. I'll say yes and vote with all the debates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u32	Mr. President. In a solar song, Jóhannes úr the Katla says, including, by permission of a president: I'm gonna have to kick some ÞjóðunnÞjóðansdóttir Expiry of options: Will You Live Forever? slave girl in landlords on a blood clot alone and bets? The people, more than any of them, have answered that question, "No! " I also say no to Iceland's becoming a slave in foster halls. I say no to the third energy package, and I will not support the three issues he has at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u33	Mr. President. We're paying a vote on a third energy directive from the European Union. A large percentage of the nation's surveys offer these packages. The vast majority of party groups are opposed to the case, including the majority of members -- [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] President. I wish for a sound in the hall. This includes the majority of the members of the governments. It is still true, despite the claims of others, that this introduction is in a conflict with a constitution. Nearly 17,000 people, I understand, have now delivered their signatures to encourage us not to introduce this. My conscience, Mr. President, I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u34	A respectable president. There has always been a time when I will never support any of the steps that can have the least impact on the self - determination rights of our Icelanders over the nation's resources. The struggle for sovereignty and personal rights to make decisions was long and hard, and that is very important to me. By permission of the President: Oh, Iceland, a beautiful family, To time indefinite let thy goodness be assured. All the cruelty from your shores made and all your counsel continually. Every day saw the revitality, every dream comes true in a work to be a beloved Iceland No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So far no more Iceland Be in subjection to the nations. Here should be a line on this matter. The risk is not worth it. I'll never take a chance for Iceland. I say no to the third energy package and related issues. [[Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u35	Sounds on the floors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u36	A respectable president. It doesn't have to be surprising here in the hall today that I will say no to this council proposal and related matters. But I just wanted to mention it at the end of this discussion that there are many things very frustrating in it. What may be most frustrating is that those who were supposed to be defensive are the worst.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u37	Mr. President. When we take our stand on difficult issues, we need to do so on the basis of information rather than blundering, not on the basis of fact, but on the price of a fortune. That's why I say yes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u38	Mr. President. Icelanders have nothing in common with EU energy. We have one of the lowest energy prices in Europe, and that's how it's supposed to be in our oppressive country. Who would have believed that the market of our energy would be introduced by our left green? Who would have believed that the Independence Party had become the EU party? EU energy packages are subject to higher electricity prices for households and companies. A large majority of the supporters of all classes are opposed to this matter. The nation is against it. The people protest. History will show that the Central Party was right. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u39	A respectable president. The administrative issues that have been discussed in the matter of this synopsis have received a thorough inspection. I don't think that there are any political issues upstairs that are unsupervised about the council. There have been a wide range of topics that were involved and were actually in the discussion of the first energy package. Many of these also applied to one energy package. Here we heard the last talk from this public talk that people talk about the market of energy. That's all the points you have in your discussion about the first and second energy package. We're not voting on the first and second energy package. We're voting on the third energy package, where the decision is not on the market area of energy, but on other technical applications involved in being participants in the EEA community. Following the progress of this situation, I think we need to consider the future rules on how we will conduct the Constitution of the EEA. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, it has not been possible in this case to complete the subject talk that belonged on the basis of their rules and all too much of it is taking place now at the removal of government instructions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u40	A respectable president. I ask a lot of questions. I ask myself many questions. When I hear people's concerns about this matter, I also ask many questions. I read very much when it comes to learning about the subject and answering those questions. I understand the concern people have been concerned about this because they have been in the air for decades. But when it comes to the subject, I don't see how these concerns are reflected in this case, how could a third energy package be attributed to anything else that might happen by the government's decision that is not related to the third energy package? I've looked and searched, and the statements that have been made about the matter are usually not in the content of the third energy package, they're elsewhere. They are trusting in Icelandic politics, where the problem lies. It is the contents of the Icelandic constitution and the solutions it provides for the problems of a new constitution. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say yes to the third energy package, because its contents do not reflect the concern that people have been concerned about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u41	A respectable president. It does not matter how often some say that certain questions will be answered. They have been answered. The question that has not been answered, however, is simply why the heads of the Central Party, who prepared this matter, suggested at the council that it would be accepted without notice, changed their mind, and acted as they have done. That is the question we must want to know. A respectable president. If you want to take a line from the Norwegian Middle East, which is against the EEA agreement and it's been a very long time, you do. That's what people do, but don't say it's for Iceland because it's not for Iceland and it's not for Icelandic interests. I say yes because saying yes is the best interests of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u42	A respectable president. The country protests, advocates of a party that had to give itself over, and has used this case to do so, and has become a member of this case a national confusion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The people protest, they say. Yes, there have been some 17,000 who signed a challenge to the Generals to reject this matter. It is the people who protest. Yes, there are people who are concerned and who are legitimately concerned, and a number of people are legitimately concerned about a number of things about the energy environment in this country, and that's especially why people are concerned about our resources. They will be at one time only worried, and that is by means of a change in constitution. But this group, this national nutcase, has shown no interest in that matter, claims to be conservative in that regard. [[The president calls.]] In this energy package, there's nothing to be afraid of, and I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u43	A respectable president. I'm gonna come up after this country the biggest mix-up, but I'm not going to do it here. A respectable president. We will discuss energy issues that are of immense importance to the nation of Iceland, more important than many others. We have not yet fully understood why we should implement the EU energy policy. However, we have been brought to the fore with regard to home bridges. We know we don't have to fear the EEA deal. It has the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, confirmed. However, we know that a pack of four is ahead, and we know what's in it. We can get a closer look at the bigger picture, which most of us choose. Well, apparently Congress officials don't. They choose not to see the bigger picture and what we have in Iceland all over it. A respectable president. If it's national effort to protect Iceland's interests, I'm a big deal. If it's national effort to resist international authority in Iceland, I'm a national fanatic. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] But I don't want to get cross on wood. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u44	Mr. President. The third pack of energy is not about the payment of our national resources. He's not about the violation of Iceland's sovereignty. It's about consumer protection. It's about environmental protection. During Recession, we have a strong view that walking in the European Union is for the benefit of an Icelandic nation. In the meantime, we will, in effect, protect the European Economic Area Convention from the unfounded attacks such as those that have occurred in connection with the introduction of this case because there is nothing else that remains when it comes to its understanding. The European Economic Area Convention is second best in position. ▪ Best of all, the second, told Snæfríður Iceland of Íslandssól to his father about choosing a life partner. It was her choice. In this regard, we need to approach the matter differently from what it was approaching our personal affairs. We here need to keep national and national interests in mind. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u45	Mr. President. We're here to resolve a case that has been in operation at the government and the General for almost a decade. This particular issue does not involve any basic change in the order of electronic energy in Iceland. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] The big changes were legalized over 15 years ago and some of them are directly derived from our involvement in the EEA Convention. A major factor of the third energy package on the Landsnet system has already been established. Iceland has received an exception from another important point regarding the tenant separation of the Landsnet. Following are factors such as increasing the independence of the electrical watch, which is probably normal and normal. Of course, the discussion will continue, so those who talk about having a very bad case for us who support this matter are certainly not, as better yet, the debate on energy matters will continue. The aim of this principle is the free trade of consumers for the benefit of others, and my opinion is that we should not abandon that goal but seek ways to achieve it even more fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u46	A respectable president. A lot has been discussed and written on the induction of the third energy package, and nothing to add. After reviewing the whole situation, no big news appears to be introduced by the third energy package. They appeared with the induction of the first and second packages. The third energy directive was primarily designed to address the following elements: catch up with demand for separation of competitive and EU transport factors, the electronics monitoring provided, increased cooperation with the energy monitors, and increased consumer protection. So the changes are made in this bill, i.e. increased consumer protection. The introduction of the second energy package required that the electronic watch be independent of the interests of electrical companies and the third directive assumes that only one administration of the command will be controlled by the electrical monitoring. It should also be legally separated from independent government or private organisations and the activities involved. The Member States will guarantee the independence of the surveillance authority, thus ensuring impartialness. I support this bill for benefits to consumers of the nation's electricity markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u47	Mr. President. I come up to explain the Central Party's position on this bill. Its aim is to create an Energy Institute in such a way that it can play a vital role related to the decision-making agent's decision to the foreign institutions under the merit of increasing the independence of the Agency. The concept of independence is turned upside down to cover that in this matter the Agency is taken away from the authority of democratically elected representatives on the land. Then the Agency, which does not submit to any national democratic means, is entrusted with the authority to lay high fines on a national enterprise on energy level. The media rejects this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u48	A respectable president. Here we are discussing this eight - page document, which is the source of the third energy package, which ends in Icelandic legislation. It's not much. It's eight pages. The text itself is on nearly two pages, and I encourage all to read this bill because it clearly shows just how small this is. I wonder where the whole plot is, I wonder if it's in 1st. or 2. g. in which income limits are expressed due to reimbursement? Or I suppose it's up to 4. in which Power Institute receives administrative warrants and reminders? Or I suppose it's an increase of 0.18 or 0.45 dollars per kilogram every hour to 6. par.? Where is this state deed? Where's ACER and ESA in here? Where are these woes that follow this issue in Icelandic legislation? They're not there, Mr. Honorable President. I'd appreciate it if people just read this magazine. It can be found on the Web site of the Generals. This is a case of No. 782, you go into Congress, then you start with a bill, and you look for 782. Read this, and you'll see how embarrassing this is from now on. The members of the Central Party and a few more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u49	Mr. President. It was long claimed that the induction of the third energy package actually had no effect in Iceland, but at the same time at the council this bill that we are about to vote for, the bill of altering the nature of the Energy Agency and making it really the national rule for Iceland, moving the Agency from democratic authority within the country, and letting it hear under incorrigibities, foreign power instead. I have recently pointed to the European Union's lawsuit against Belgium, especially for starting these proceedings, that Belgar, although not having given his national rule to absolute and extensive authority, wanted to retain the authority in some way by Congress and government. The answer to those who want to accept this Radio on Power Institute is that by doing so, we will go beyond Belgar. We are going to go all the way, meet the European Union's demand that the European Order of the United States have unscored power over energy projects and decision-making of the European Union's link to the electricity system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u50	A respectable president. I find it interesting to see how the language changes. Now the problem is that Power Institute will become too independent, not that it will be part of the European Union or that the European Union will bring some institution here, but we are now supposed to be terribly afraid that Power Institute will become more independent of its work. Oh, no, what a general position - or the other. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The matter against Belgium is specifically mentioned. Of course, we should stick to the commitments we agree to make. It is not news that treaties are carried out, that international treaties are carried out on international rights. That's not news. It's not a threat. That's something we want to have for ourselves. In the event that someone else conflicts with our agreements, there are ways to resolve such issues, which are, for example, the case with some other person. to these routes now against Belgium. I just want to make it up because Belgium is often named that what Belgium didn't do is what we're doing here. Surely the ESA can't be boring about that, can it? No. All we find in this debate is that if people do not live up to their agreements, they are naturally the result. [[The president calls.]] It's not news, it's normal, it's a respectable president, and that's how we should want it to be because of our interests, rights, and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u51	Mr. President. The set-up in Article 3 does not include instructions for its implementation. is what some may wonder. But that doesn't matter. There are regulations issued by the Minister on how Power Institute operates. We still create a law in Iceland on how this works. According to these laws and regulations, the Agency operates. Where they're being removed, there's some kind of secretary-of-concerning authority on the decisions of the Power Institute. It is independence. We're avoiding the interests of a minister. It's been bad enough in the past. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u52	Mr. President. I see reason to thank the supporters of this bill that has come up here to discuss the vote and to explain what really comes into existence. So it is to meet EU requirements better than Belgium by implementing the full requirements set out by the European Union. What does that involve? What did the Belgs go nuts on? In view of the European Union, where did they not go far enough? Yes, by believing that, despite the induction of the third energy package, they could leave behind power in the U.S. Congress of the United States, over-exploited agents, over acts in the electronics and conditions for linking to the EU electronics system. However, the supporters of this case have now made clear that this is done only to negotiate, so to speak, and that is a contract to take over from this institution and bring it to an institution that does not belong to democratic authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u53	Mr. President. To celebrate the last comment. The speaker would rightly agree that it is not a new statement that laws recommend that individual organizations are independent of their jobs and have independent authority. That's not a new word. That's true of a lot of surveillance agencies in this community. This does not change how they operate on the boundaries and regulations set, but they are more independent in individual decisions. We can refer to competitive surveillance, financial surveillance, a number of surveillance agencies that have roles similar to that of the Power Institute in this case, so there is no new word, and no reason to create any ghost stories about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u54	Mr. President. Those who are worried about this bill, I'd say they're looking at what's available. If the new constitution had arrived, 10 percent of the people might bring the matter to them. What we see in the total energy package is that today about 7% of the people have signed their refusal to accept it. The 17,000 or 16,000 people should look to what is available today in this ideal period under the government covenant, according to a staff on the Supreme Court. Prime Ministers to whom all classes are involved, including members of the Central Party. There's a reason. Gunnlaugsson Sigmundur on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason sometimes replaces him if he succumbs. It is offered during this election period, before the end of the term, that the nation itself can bring to them the primes approved by the General. This is what we're supposed to look at. If we had invented this, a third energy package wouldn't be the problem it is. He didn't create that splitter. The people would be able to call the matter to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u55	A respectable president. I just want to say, in between one and two. The bill is we're paying votes on pay limits for currency, which isn't a state-of-the-art campaign, not a treason, not putting no power into Europe. These are pay limits for remuneration, which are well explained in a report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u56	A respectable president. We're here to vote on Article 3. the bill on the independence of the Power Institute. I just wanted to say in the light of earlier words that I would support this article regardless of what the European Union might think of it. I like this article. I think this is a good idea, and I think we should support this, completely out of the reach of the EEA community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u57	A respectable president. I think it's important that we go through this well, so we make sure this isn't a treason or a general campaign. This is where we vote on Section 4. which is about the authority of the Power Institute to give reminders and administrative guiltys.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u58	A respectable president. There's a vote here for 5,◯8. par. In between 5 and 7. will be discussed with the charges that go to the Commission of Electric Energy, not to ACER, not to ESA, but to the European Commission of Electricity. Remuneration is discussed in Article 6. where expenses are raised in part per kilometer hour, probably about a hundred dollars for each country's home. It's all the sovereignty there. Eight. is again about the independence of the Power Institute. Count 9. is then the validation principle that I think will explain itself, clearly different from the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u59	Mr. President. This arrangement suggests that there will be a change in the council resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. The committee presented views and objections to the sea cables. A greater part of it feels right to state that this arrangement is merely a matter of requiring a decision-making authority for such a project at the General Assembly. It has been suggested that the decision to fix a cable may be shifted from the Icelandic government and the values of the Parliament's decrees have been questioned. The majority of the employment committees do not agree with that view. In view of the greater part, the wording of the synonym is clear, making it clear. There will always be a decision-making tool in the hands of the Icelandic government. In addition, the State has unfavourable authority over the natural resources of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u60	Mr. President. I come up here to explain the Central Party's position on this matter. This case is part of a compromise tool for bringing in the third energy package. This matter is a most meaningful, unconvincing way to justify an unconvinced case. To the national rights, these are forbidden, and they have no national value. We do not participate in these premonitions, which are only for home bridges, Mr. President. [[Up front.]] It has been claimed that this energy package should agree on the opinions of consumer protection and the reductions in electricity prices. The two factors connect, so the Icelanders will enjoy the consumer protection of reaping a higher electrical price. [[The president calls.]] We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u61	A respectable president. Here we are voting for the nation's future energy policy. Much has been said about our national willingness and whether we trust the nation to make decisions in our own matters, let alone the huge matters that concern them for the future. The following is an adjustment form from the people's Archipelago, which leaves no doubt about our trust in the nation to make decisions that will concern them for the future, and instead of the fact that what is presented here, it will be set up in a council that will not be the last to see if it will ever be here and when and where it will be laid. I hope at least that all who trust in the nation will respond well to the adjustment, for it should not be a snare to anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u62	Mr. President. When the then government began an exploratory discussion about fixing sea cables with the British government, it was not strictly under law that the decision to make such a procedure should be made at the General Assembly. By accepting this bill at the highest level. However, we are making it absolutely clear to the government at any given time, despite her interest in fixing such a string, cannot be done without the approval of the General Assembly. That is why I feel that this is a big development, and of course we support it. However, I do not believe that it is time to suggest from the people's group that the Council should not come to them, that they should be referred directly to the nation. Then I don't think I'll pass, so we'll vote against her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u63	President. So the people at home who are concerned understand what we're paying votes about, I'd like to say that the third energy package has been approved. They have approved the Commission on the independence of the Power Agency, which had to be done in order for the energy package to be filled. Now we're voting on the alert, i.e. that the approval of the U.S. Marshals is required if a cable is to be placed. It's the alarm we vote for right now. What that means is that if a government at any time sets out to sea wires, strong politicians who want to cross the nation, they can't do it without the survival of the Generals. A general body of defenses can become publicist, and the General can file a lawsuit. Just as the case with the third energy package is a synopsis proposal that could be applied to a filibrator, so it will be with the General Reconception Act in case you plan to launch a sea cable. Those who vote against this vote vote against putting on defenses at the Council so that it can be stopped if future cables are set. That's exactly what it means practitioner. [[The president calls.]] Then there's a wSæland. With an excellent suggestion to add it not to the General but to the people that the defenses are there. [[Up front.]] I'm not saying it's to be taken by the Council, I'm saying it's to make defenses and if those who claim to be defensive in this matter vote against the defense, it's a very hollow chord. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u64	Mr. President. Any conversation we discussed would have included the introduction of a cable at the General Assembly. But in this matter and the next, we come to the issues that the former prime minister Pálsson called praiseworthy deception. I surely agree with the Þorsteinn of Paul's Pálsson that it is a delusion and ministers have even claimed that these regulations are not really of any importance but are intended to make humans feel better about the matter. It is, in fact, very interesting that the construction, the sect of Pálsson's son Þorsteinn, and the United States, have become more successful with the largest and really the only issue of their policy in government opposition than in government. But the Council cannot afford to be deceived, so neither the matter we discuss nor the next one can be supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u65	A respectable president. I firmly believe that there are voters for themselves who are to decide what goes on and what they should not do. I'm going to refer them to another great change plan or something. paritaprevir Sæland Goad's decision to fix a cable would be automatically placed in a national law. I have no objection, I'd probably sign such a list myself if I were asked as a civilian, but I believe in the process of a new constitution and that we're taking up as part of our policy in the Piranha, i.e. that 10% of voters can ask for national fees. If there is a ratio of approximately 25,000 people, I would present myself such a change or support it if someone else had done so before me, as it is now. On the other hand, I have not been told that the request for a national fee is not allowed to come anywhere except from politicians themselves. That's why I feel that I can't support any of the new adjustments I made. I'm not against her, however, so I'm sitting by, but I encourage everyone who wants to influence the Porta's attitude toward the national agreements to collect the signatures, reach 10%, and we're going to make the adjustment of the material, and we're going to support issues that are the same content. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u66	The third energy package has been approved. What's available right now is increasing defense. If a sea cable is to be placed, extra defenses are put in. Then you can say it's a fake, etc. When the proposal was made, it may have been designed to deceive, possibly, but now the middle party and all other classes of the General Assembly are finished, they wrote down for us, the right to engage in language code, and then they wrote under Congress that they allowed the discussion to end in a period of time, two days, and then a vote. That's what was signed, that's the signature of the head of the Central Party underneath. Then, by the U.S. Congress, the people have signed that they are not allowed to file a lawsuit and that the president has authority. Here you will be adding an arraignment if you are to place a cable later in the future. That's what we're voting about. You can say: "It was an illusion when it was presented. But now the energy package is approved and this is the only defense left behind. It's not a lie. It is a pragmatic reality, so a future government could not start. It could be stopped at the General. [[The president calls.]] There's a hollow sound, there's a really hollow sound if you don't want to vote with it in order to say somehow: we voted against all the energy packages. No, these are good things that were inserted, even if they were put in as deceptive, it is now a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u67	Mr. President. It is true that because of the various charges that have been committed here, Árni Friðrikssson Hirst and Friðrik Friðikssson received it specifically at a meeting of the State Department of State in August, this comment came from them: If available documents are read together, i.e. The Council of State Ministers and Parliamentary Reunion proposals for travel, industrial and innovation, as well as for the legislature of the latter, in addition to reports and other evidence, we feel that the warnings are properly held there. All of this needs to be crystal clear in all the media. That doesn't mean turning back a month, six months in time. This is what came from our esteemed jurists a few weeks ago on this matter, so it is clear to all that the matter of meeting perfectly in their opinion is fully understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u68	Mr. President. I wanted to include in the matter briefly before a vote asks for this proposal and a new proposal. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. I say for myself that I can't agree with a new arrangement where it is assumed that a case will go directly to a national bill without the arrival of the Council, as can be understood in the text of the proposal. On the contrary, I think it is important that if there is a decision in this area, the situation will be treated carefully and extensively at the General Assembly. I would like to suggest that a national agreement set up here in a synonym has no administrative position in which our administration order allows for certain tax laws that are binding. Of course, it is permitted at any given time, that is why, when it comes to these matters, it is permitted to pay a national fee according to the General decision. [[The president calls.]] However, it is, of course, only counsel but not binding and, as I say, as the proposal is here, assumed that it will be without the arrival of the Council that I would not accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u69	A respectable president. It's something special if you don't seriously intend to vote with this case if they're on the other hand talking about their concern that this is going to be a sea cable. Here is the point that many times have been pointed out that we find it important to have, i.e. that there must be a direct meeting attendance before making any decision like this. That's even. They're here because they're scaring you. I don't have to go over it in particular. I think it's amazing when those who are here against the energy package have special reasons for the harshest EU opposers in the case. It's getting interesting. In terms of national law, I think it's something that, although I'm not very closely attached to it in such a general way, let's face it. [[The president calls.]] Obviously, though, this suggestion is a defect, such as a beard. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson pointed out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u70	A respectable president. Here, many have stepped on the deck today, and one of the council's chief specialists is what's remarkable and what's insignificant, or what's common. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has spoken a lot. If it's food. A senator that quality depends on their strength, or on the number of pages, I think that Pirata should just rest, not be putting up a matter of Congress. On the other hand, I'd like to, for word's sake. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, to remind them that there is a somewhat old legal opinion that political affairs do not interfere with government operations except the government that accepts it. The next government to take over may conclude that this body of Congress doesn't have anything to do with it, it's not bound by it. There are no defences, as the senator is talking about, if that is what is being referred to, and hence this cannot be approved. [[Up front.]] Even if that was just one argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u71	Mr. President. Of course, such false reasoning cannot be understood, that it is like any other body of Congress that somehow falls out of force, and what the next government wants is important. Hv. A senator knows better than that. These changes are made in the electric law that needs to be followed by Congress, so it's not like a traditional concierge. You can't put a cable project on a protocol without its approval by Congress. It would be a violation of the general law, not just the interpretation, but the general law. That's a fundamental difference. Clearly, a person must expect to be correct when he or she is aware of the facts. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u72	Mr. President. It is not much to add an explanation to the Supreme Court. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers on the value of the proposal presented here. I must recall, though, that article as easily as possible. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was referred to as a new tool not to propose to the General Assembly at its time a proposal for a return of the European Union application. [[Taken out on: right.]] It was decided that when we were told that this application had been retracted, Congress laws would have no greater value than that it would need to be replaced by a revocation, which has then caused considerable uncertainty about what really happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u73	A respectable president. The point is worth the effort when talking about defects in this adjustment arrangement. It is worth our attention when we know that in our representative democracy, we are 63 members of the United States, and it is always the governments that, in their power, control all the things that are going to take place here. That's a fact. Now we're working in a group, senators, with the highest power. Prime Minister for changes to constitution We're calling for more direct democracy. We are trying to send a message to the people that we trust them, and we are trying to build trust, our council, which is very trusting in society. What would be better for us than to step forward now and show our trust in the nation? I'm surprised if those who call for a direct democracy and a change in the constitution and so forth are not prepared to participate in giving the last word if and when it comes to bringing an end to this land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u74	A respectable president. I had complete confidence in the people to make decisions on matters set out here. I also had complete confidence in the nation to express my interest in national pay at such times. It is an excellent guide in a new constitution, 10% of voters, which has simply not been met here. As soon as it's done, I'll support these suggestions and offer one of these, in fact, I'll have them ready in my computer if that's done. Direct democracy does not mean that politicians are in favor with the sending of their personal interests or what they care about in a national fee. It's not the authority of voters, it's the authority of politicians. That's why it's very important for me to be called by voters. If that's a plea, I'll back it up. If it doesn't, I just don't see why. It's as simple as that. As I mentioned earlier, I'm not opposed to the case, and if it were to start a meeting for a proposal that would be here for an consideration of laying a cable, I'd probably sign it myself. But then I would do it as a civilian rather than as a politician who himself wants to drive and drive to the extent that the nation controls. The people themselves are to decide how much they have control over each matter. She is fully capable of showing that support for national pay when she so wishes, as she has repeatedly demonstrated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u75	I will, of course, vote with this case. I totally understand the point. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and this is a conversation that takes place within Pirata, exactly where the line is. I'm on this one. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson has spoken of this as not being binding, etc. but I'd like to suggest that this is inserted into general aspects of the development of electricity transport systems. It was put there by Congress resolution, but in a bill we're about to vote on right after then says, by permission of the President: The link between the country's electrical energy systems and other countries through cables is based on government policy on the structure of electricity transport systems. This has been legally established and must be followed by what is said in the Senate arrangement we are voting for now, that it is entering this transport. By law, it has been bound in. At that time, the General has declared by law that they are going to have to be a national agreement. There are also other ways to go. For example, this can be done by a change in terms of the failure of the bills or concierge unless the nation has first approved them in a national law. Yes, if properly spoken today, binding national laws can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u76	President. It would be best if the nation could bring the matter to them in a national payment if it was time to spread a cable here. But since we haven't approved a new constitution and the option is not there, I support the proposal to set it up as a national law. It would be better to go on a different course than I think, especially in view of the fact that the present government has done little or nothing in my opinion in promoting trust in the World Parliament and in politics and with us politicians, particularly important for this to be agreed on, to go to national law. We should have done much, much more to strengthen confidence in the Council so that such tremendous distrust would not exist. That is why people simply do not trust us in this decision. We should then allow the nation to come to that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u77	Mr. President. The case we vote for is not about the fix of a cable. So it is a little special to make a change in national terms about something we're not discussing or voting about. If the Council may agree to a sea cable fix, then there is a prerequisite for making a proposal for national payment. But not now, and not here. So I don't vote with this proposal, but I encourage members who support the proposal to act more quickly and wholeheartedly in the changes in the constitution being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u78	Mr. President. The energy package has been approved. These are the only items left to follow, that we can do something today, at this point, i.e. putting it in the energy policy and with the bill that we accept right after, a law that says that the approval of the Generalis is needed to launch an aquaculture project. Why should we not agree? I see the Central Party is against it. Then you ask, and I've always asked that question in this matter: Is it just about politics, about politics, or is it about real defenses for the Americans? People paint themselves in democracies, but will they allow the nation to represent a 10% vote? Let us pay very close attention during this terms. That's available. Is that what the Middle Class wants? I'm not so sure, I'm stuck about it. Here, people have the opportunity to set up defenses, to have a seminar to stop a cable project from starting, and to vote against it. [[The president calls.]] Middle-class members are against us. It's politics, as a suspect, far rather than a guard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u79	A respectable president. This table is the most remarkable of subjects. I just want to draw attention to the fact that the last case of the motion is as follows, with the permission of a president: The basis for such a decision by the Council shall provide a comprehensive assessment of the environmental, social, and economic effects of such connections and activities. Of course, if you prepared a lawsuit that Iceland could somehow be reported to sea cables, that would be according to the decision of the Power Institute. The compromise is nonsense to me and to anyone I know about who's done enough research. But suppose they were to be charged because it was the decision of the Power Institute that was charged. There is nothing in the third energy package for the decisions of other institutions, so here are other institutions. This would be more defense for Iceland if the rational support thought that water could be reported to us to force us to land a cable. So people who are afraid of cables and who take a serious case of the Central Party should vote with this proposal. In view of this, it is very interesting as it stands today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u80	A respectable president. This is a vote for a change in government policy regarding the building of electricity transport systems. I feel a lot of people in this room are talking like we're part of a joint energy market in Europe that we're not. It's a big deal. This suggests that the decision to fix a cable is always at the General Assembly. We are and will be a sovereign nation that will make our decisions based on our own interests and will do so from now on. This suggests that the people and the government are being introduced into the development of the electrical transport system. We left greens have opposed and are opposed to sea cables, which is why I propose that the General always has the final decision-making power if anyone ever thought of putting in this sea cable that I don't think will be in the immediate future. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u81	Mr. President. The bill we're taking into account here suggests that by means of electricity laws, we will be improved by new provisions for the linking of the energy systems of our country to the electrical systems of another country through a series of cables, according to the government's policy on the building of electricity systems. That's the Congress arrangement we just agreed to. The main objective of the bill is to ensure that if the decision to link the country's electrical system to the electrical systems of other countries is to be implemented, the procedure should be in accordance with government policy at any given time. So if you're changing electricity laws to conform to proposals for the change in the synonym, which was put along with the bill and we were agreeing to it. A greater proportion of the committee points out that the legislation is being adjusted in harmony with the aforementioned adjustment of the synoptic resolution proposed to require that the sea cable not be attacked by sea cable unless it is agreed with the General Assembly. This is followed by a copy of this copy of the greater portion, regarded as the long- been sought here in spring, which was always available in the council's data but was made a great deal hasty in regard to the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u82	Mr. President. I come here to explain the Central Party's position on this matter. It's very much the same procedure as the first one. Here is one of those empty warnings that are designed to enhance the subject but have no value in national rights. It's okay. It's okay. It may be. To consider that we were walking in the European Economic Area with the aim of paying the way of Icelandic products into the European market, but we are now in a position to be faced with the need to follow the current policy, to negotiate mutual access to the market, to be in a position to access the European market, we are required to have access to the European market. [[The president calls.]] We'll say no to all these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u83	President. This is the bill that will establish what we agreed on in the council review earlier, that if it is to be placed in the sea cables, it will be with the arrival of the General Assembly. We know what that arrival needs to be like. It is a mass resolution, and just as with the third energy package, which was a synonym, a filancy can be used. It also says that it must be a thorough study of economic and social impacts. The Senators all know that what this makes is an opportunity for a smaller section at the General Assembly that doesn't want a cable to be able to pursue a debate in the future to stop it. Then they say, "Yes, but this is not enough." No, this may not be enough, but that means that the right will be activated. By accepting this bill and by making the law the right thing to do is activated. This is completely incomprehensible. Can't even really say: Yes, it's good, even if it's not enough. At least they make this small thing back there, minor defences later on. Is that impossible? Can't you point out anything that's good? Does everything have to be against everything?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u84	A respectable president. I want to point 'em. Councilmen say this is not part of the third energy package or the case we agreed on earlier. [[Taken out on: right.]] The first two things are. The first case was a pact proposal to accept the third energy package. The second issue was the bill for bringing in that energy package in Icelandic law. The two cases, what we're voted for right now and what was before, are something the Icelanders decide to set up on their own initiative and for reasons only in Iceland, nowhere in the EU, to meet the concerns people had of a pack of three energy. A law against the case mentioned above is not a vote against a pack of three energy, or anything that appears in it, not a staff, not anything. We are only asking if we will have the Council determine whether or not there will be a sea cable. It's our own decision. I just want to keep it up if people think they're voting against the third energy package by voting against this case. This would only further illustrate what the lack of understanding seems to be complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u85	This is your last chance. It's still possible to vote. It's still possible to turn its vote. This is the last chance to raise defenses later in this process if the nation itself does not have the right to bring a case to themselves, to call the primes of the Council, which is now available in this ideal period, and the middle party can join in the Congregation of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for a change in the constitution, that 10% of the people can bring a case to him. If it doesn't come to pass, defenses are being built because the Central Party has written down the right to practice filancy in this, did it in spring, got this butt now, two days plus one. It's a signed deal on that, huh? A senator who smiles at it, and there it is bound under the council, by the laws of the council and by the rules, that the media - and that is said the United States Party - gives up his right to practice a lawsuit in the matter. However, the defenses are being raised earlier in the process. If they're going to make sea cables or link Iceland with a sea cable, then the Allied Parliament will have to get there. They are being raised up to defend their language. If there was a huge disagreement at the time, the people could say, "We want them out of the EEA community." [[The president calls.]] Guards are being built, and the middle party does not want to participate. Why not? [[The president calls.]] It's not a matter of business, and I can't see anything more than that politics is more important than protecting the people in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u86	A respectable president. We vote on a reduction in capital pay. Thus, subsequent uses of software will be taxed, as is done by capital pay. The subject of the bill can include Based on the treaty of the governmental parties, it will be noted that there will be a change in taxation of music, Icelandic literature, and the media. This idea, however, is not new but has been discussed for a long time. In the case of taxation, the author's financial organization has repeatedly discussed the unreasonableness involved in not handling mental and wooden works in the same way. With this change, we are increasing our reasonableness and acknowledging that our software is like other money - rich assets, assets, and stocks. Thus, it is only reasonable that the subsequent use of such material, whether in books, music, art, or other brain - based material, is taxed, as is the case with rent or capital pay. With this change, we are increasing the significance of creative articles and building up the important areas in which creative articles are involved. With this tax reduction, we are improving Iceland's competitiveness when it comes to creative articles, for while energy is our most important resource, the intelligence is no doubt important too. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. Councilmen to support this fine matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u87	Mr. President. It's in a way very interesting and interesting tax experiment, but the experiment is very uncertain, e.g. We are not sure exactly what the meaning of the words is for the use of a page. No other printing should be for later use than filming from a book should be. But what about another building by the same drawing, etc.? This is very unclear, and it is also unclear with a fiscal tax, whether or not this will change anything about it. I'm sorry, but I just have to think of this bill as really threatening the stability of the tax business and I find it very interesting that this is done because it opens to a very large number of articles that are not the ones that are being thought about by the bill itself can start moving their income to pay taxes instead of income taxes. It is irresponsible and difficult to understand exactly why that route has gone rather than an environmental improvement because it is really what everyone agrees on the need to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u88	A respectable president. This is probably an issue of rights for artists and other authors. In nature, it is capital pay and therefore natural to tax them as such. We in the United States support this case and we will vote for it. The other thing is, the money tax in this country could be higher. He's the lowest person in Iceland from all over the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u89	Mr. President. Despite my last comment on the whole bill, it is right to assume that these changes made to a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee are to improve the situation by removing a legal body from the film, and therefore we will vote for them. However, I could not see myself supporting the committee's opinion simply because there were a few things in the text of the committee itself that I felt would indicate that this was a more positive bill than it was. However, the adjustments are positive, so of course we support them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-132.u90	Mr. President. We're here to vote for a change in income tax law and a budget tax law. The bill as it came to the council had some flaws. During the council, there have been changes in the case that greatly improve, so I say yes.
