ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u1	The president would like to inform you that on behalf of the Generals, the vice president of the United States yesterday, Wednesday, June 12th, took on a signature list to support Nara Walker. The business has been presented in a reading hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u2	President. This bill could be quite a step. They're bringing the administration of agricultural products from Food Institute into the Ministry. However, I would like to reiterate that it was clearly stated by the committee of the person who is being transferred, or by the Food Institute, that they have funds to do something together that has been achieved by having information expert at their disposal and that once this team has been moved up, they have been able to make real use of the information they have had, that they have to get access to the information they have had, that they have remained there, and that they are not sharing this team, so they can really take care of what they are doing. We're on the yellow button because we don't know what's really going to happen, but if you follow this advice, which you don't know when it's time for money, it's probably going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u3	Mr. President. The recommendation of the memory of the part to further clear the access of the media to a court order was agreed on yesterday's discussion. It was the idea of turning to the principle that anything is forbidden unless it is permitted to do so unless it is forbidden. It was disappointing that this happened, but minor adjustments were made on paragraphs 2 and 18. The bill that looks for improvement. Therefore, I will support the situation as it is now, but I'm afraid that a body of Congress should not seize the opportunity and clear those rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u4	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in the laws related to fish farming (generalisation risk assessment, fireland distribution, administrative fines, etc.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s In view of the fact that many members of the Parliament are on the rosary in this matter, I intend to shorten my case as best possible. First, I'd like to thank the members of the pro board, the Chairman and especially the manager of the case, why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, for good guidance in this matter and good cooperation with the committee, as it has been observed in this chair. Of course, it's quite a big deal, and I'm not going to repeat what's been said here. The head of the committee opinion was very careful about the issues involved, and the key element will be included in the Committee between 2 and 3. to correct the bait that has to be fixed on this great and important matter, and I trust it, and we trust that it will be done at peace. This is very important for those communities who are trusting their jobs ground and settlements in these communities on the West and on the east. It is very important that we make this happen to them so that they can look to the future with good employment and trust. Laxeldium has grown in the back of the West and east, having a tremendous impact on the survival of the population and rural society in these quarters and is now working up to 500 people in salmon farms in Iceland. This year the production of farmed salmon is expected to be about 25,000 tons and will increase over the next few years. The value of this production, as in Western Europe, is comparable to that of the cod, thus telling us very much what is underneath. I'd also like to show that if Iceland is to live in the economy and prosperity of this country for some time, we will have to increase the land's export value by one billion a week, 1,000 million each year to live under 3% of interest each year and the quality of life that this nation demands and wants to live on. We have the biggest chance of getting this thing out of salmon farms. This is the article that can give us the most of the income that this population needs in the years to come. It is the sector these settlements are going to build on, and they are now waiting to eliminate the uncertainty of this sector and the companies who are applying for permission to work and operate their companies in these places. It is of utmost importance that the message from the council is that we are going to be behind this article. For a brief talk, I would like to mention just one of the main issues and the innovations in this matter, which are the so - called genetic risk assessment. It is new on a worldwide scale set out in these laws. It also places a great deal of responsibility for Iceland's Marine Research Institute to take this food and do it as well as possible. I trust the Oceanographic Institute perfectly. In fact, it is not normal for such an institution to take such responsibility, but it has been decided by this law to do so. The risk assessment includes the assessment of biological effects on farms, parasites, disease and genetic management. Then there are counterbillary measures for these factors, such as generation-changed fire, size of sea, grid, monitoring a river, description and delay in puberty, which are extremely important in this risk assessment. We are saying that the risk assessment will be made alive after the counter measures that the companies will perform, and it is important that the Marine Research Institute take into account the compliant measures made to allow the risk assessment to work whenever possible. A very important point in this matter is also that crops and salmon farms become as important as possible and are not leaving the country at all. The income of the rural society is also important, not only from employees but also from the fire itself, and it will be considered in a special currency, which is the next subject at the end of this matter. I just want to say in the short talk I'm going to deliver that is an enormously based language. It's a national matter. This is a settlement where the Parliament must stand with the scattered settlements, stand by the places that are already started with salmon fire, and stand by the companies that are scraping hundreds of people's jobs, and will eventually become thousands. This is the point of growth in exports in Iceland, this is the article that can see to it that prosperity continues to develop in Iceland and that we will return to our country where we have chosen. The economic and positive effects of the fire could be thousands of billions over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u5	Mr. President. We'll discuss the fish farming business, i.e. a bill to correct the adjustment of various rules related to fish farms It was already clear that this case would be the major issue of this council. At the beginning of my talk, I want to thank for the work being done in the field. Work committee, especially the head of the Committee, who has directed this work by firmness and smoothness. Then I'd like to thank you too. Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otharson Proppér, who has shown great ambition in this case. I thank all members of the Committee for their enjoyable cooperation. The work of this committee cannot be considered as different from being added to the group of people who have discussed their trip to Norway. [[Up front.]] That trip was very successful, and perhaps it could be said that if some member of the Senate ever found it difficult, we could recommend going to Norway and studying fish farms. That would be at least not corrupt. There are a lot of factors in this matter. Like the last speaker, huh? paritaprevir Of course, Ásmundur Friðriksson, this is a large area of the country, this has to do with jobs in the country, the communities in those areas where this type of work could be considered. At the same time, they are under very high interest in the environment and in the environment, and these aspects do not all come together, so they need to find a way. The route here is to build this operation on a scientific level, and I will take a closer look at it in my speech here. A goal that I consider worthy is that this article will be strong and powerful and characterized by sustainable development as the protection of the environment and nature is guided. It is very important that this young industry, if properly maintained, become a great source of employment and income and have a positive influence on the national culture of the Icelanders, have a solid and reasonable law-and-order work. It is attributed to the Committee's Committee's Committee that the factors that were best discussed in the management of the Committee were risk-benefit assessment of the genetic mixture, management permits, their values and applications, equacy in open and closed systems, benefits, bile and risks as it is called, and the importance of a regular work programme review and adherence to the development of the sector, as well as natural protection and environmental issues. Mr. President. This is a very important factor in the bill presented here to legalize the risk assessment of genetics, and it is an Ecological Research Institute that is assigned to achieve such a risk assessment. This risk assessment includes evaluation of the amount of fertile salmon that is safe to produce in aquaculture at any time, but when comparing, it is appropriate to be able to provide a carrier tolerance assessment, an assessment of total production in each area. The risk assessment may not be adequately selected. There is no risk assessment; there is an estimate of the amount that is considered safe to raise. But well, the key point is that this assessment is on scientific grounds and on the best knowledge at any given time as the most skilled scientists we have. Also essential is the assessment of work and the evaluation of the sort of scientific practice, which is so called censorship, and, of course, very important that the Narcotic Institute continues to maintain a strong relationship with similar institutions, especially in Norway, and that the most skilled scientists review the findings of the Agency. Mr. President. It's a little bit of a lump I'm measuring to get my way. Mr. President. Risk food is designed to prevent the Spanish salmon that are used here for cooking and is an alien species in Icelandic nature mixed with wild commercial salmon. They are important, and their protection is very important. This bill contains many steps in preventing possible damage to wild crops by evaluating, with the so-called risk assessment, the target of the sustainable use of wild strains being compromised. In this context, the Marketing Authorisation Holder obligations are sharpened, including to cope with strokes, as well as to increase the surveillance and supply of Food Organization, there is a wealth of authority clearance to lay hold of government fines. Motive measures are important, to help minimise the potential for genetic preparation. This information is discussed, and I don't need to review major aspects of this relationship, most of them are well known, but it is a reason to draw attention to important regulations that the Fish Office is authorized to measure the need for a fugitive in nearby fishing rivers and lakes and removed, and that fengnu approval applies to a hunting club or seafood court when a fishing club has not been established. Mr. President. Emphasis is placed on this in the opinion of the greater part, and I think there's no disagreement about that at the time. It is important to identify risk assessment and carrier tolerance with experts. This is a new statement that a minister of three men named on a fishing team, a root genetics, and/or ecology scientists to study the methodology used by the Marine Research Institute to provide food tolerance and risk assessment. It is attributed to the Commission that a minister's authority should be given in order to address management issues, e.g. where there is a need for a change in business permit following a change in risk assessment. This is failed by the fact that a minister will be obliged to set up a regulations that will address these issues in more detail. A meeting committee on fish farming, which is a government advisory on fish farming issues, is expected. The role of the committee is also the case. evaluating the basis and processing of the data on which genetic management is based. I am stressing that this meeting site has no authority in any way to support the assessment of a marine research agency, as it only makes a change in its proposal if it is for itself. Of course, it can be discussed in which such a committee should be appointed. For my part, I thought it would be a considered option. That view did not have a sound foundation, but I appreciate it that in some way a three - man expert committee may be failed with the precise qualifications for professional living. From what is expected in the bill, it is also assumed that, as it is called, the terms of environmental and natural protection will be represented on the committee and the natural requirement was absolutely necessary. He or she responds by appointing representatives of the committee to the Environment Minister. This group of people has strong opinions, and they do not deny that there are some who strongly insist that it is not appropriate, in order to speak out in a mild way, to raise fish in open heifers. However, in the bill, there are incentives that I believe are important to the operators in a sea Mrs. Manion's water supply, as well as on land. There's something to mention. To my view, there was a great deal of solidarity. A committee to emphasize the protection of wild salmon strains and to protect the environment. However, a greater part of the proposal is made that if we divide distant or marine areas in a firefield, the Agency should consult with the EEA and the regional Council of the territory. This too is thought to be a better link to laws on nature protection. It is true to assume that the time of management is a factor that often occurred. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that all Marketing Authorisation Holders sit at the same level and that such licenses are reviewed like any other permit. It is therefore proposed that the license will be temporary and reviewed on at least The MAH shall submit, if requested, the required data for a review of the license. This is a very important thing; it is also assumed, at least it is reserved for the greater part, that it is important to ensure that the institutions that receive increased roles under the law are expanded and that they can provide financial support for their activities. Of course, technology comes forward, and it is described in part by the Commission's opinion that it is not long before the use of fertile salmon is practiced in sealed and semi-endumed cows, that it should be headed, and that in the coming years it must be revised in fish farming legislation, which will take into account the progress, including: on fireware. Therefore, it is assumed that the law will be reviewed no later than May 1, 2024. Mr. President. I can't help but mention one point that, as shown in the case of the layman, the majority of the items have retracted a proposal that is found regarding the management of applications for a license. A solution to this issue is expected between the 2nd and 3rd. I'm going to say that it would have been good to say that this conclusion is already in place of 2nd. and I will also allow myself to say that, of course, it would have been good for them senators, at least Those members of the panel who write under the opinion of the greater part - and I'm theirs - would have been informed about how that matter would please him, as well as what the benefits would be most in this relationship and what it would be considered to be of an organization to be unique value. In this regard, it is essential that a successful solution be made to an enterprise's financial interests. In fact, it cannot be resolved until that solution is found and found to be acceptable in relation to the rich interests involved in this relationship. The time available for that relationship has become a guess. I want to end my case by saying that to the media members, it was important to ensure that as far as the highest solidarity in this matter is concerned with the best interests of this article before us and the best-growing communities in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u6	A respectable president. We're talking about fish farms, and I'm mainly going to enter the environmental and environmental elements. In particular, I'd like to deal with natural fish species like trout and salmon and the effects of fish breeds on those natural strains. We have to be absolutely careful that there will be no effects, but as little as possible. I'm saying for my part that I've caught up in most parts of the country. It's amazing in the West, and you're afraid of the danger of such a huge fish farming can have on the environment. I'd like to state that I'm looking at the committee opinion of the greater part, and there I'd like to point out that the committee says word for word, by permission of the president: Therefore, the Commission encourages alertness in the broad assessment of the environmental impact of fish farms and stresses that they are met by scientific counter measures where necessary and if they are to be minimized by the environmental impacts... What one person feels is minimal, however, may be the peak of environmental impact, and this is, in effect, a mild wording. This is where the environment and nature should always be first, and we should make sure that if there are any options, the environment can be chosen at all times. We're supposed to make sure of that. A section on salmon lice and other parasites describes counterargulating measures against parasites and diseases, as follows: ▪ The right to protect against salmon lice and other parasites is environmentally friendly.•The right to use it is to protect against salmon lice and other parasites. I say they're only supposed to be environmentally friendly. We're just supposed to talk clearly. If there is a environmental product and it is more expensive, it should only be selected. In order not to extend my case much, I'm going to include most of the committee's items from a small part of the employment committee, where I will agree specifically with the Glaive Land. It even says, by permission of the president: Despite the fact that this was not specifically discussed on the committee during the winter, it is clear that it is highly controversial whether fish farming should be allowed in protected areas, such as the year 2000. In the Jacklands. They are part of the Horn of Patriot Peace, a unique region worldwide. It lay in the middle of the last century, before roads and electric lines were constructed. The minority feels that such bulbs are important to the future and that they will enjoy their special status. So it is suggested that the change to Article 3. to avoid allowing the use of glaciers to be allowed under fish fire. This is especially true because it's where I've got my roots. In the Jacklands, in Drangavík, my mother was born and my grandfather was there, and this is a unique area to protect in every way. There's no need to think about getting into this kind of business. And then it's with the blessed salmon lice. I don't know what law is about it, but with a regular lice, it was spoken of as a mess. I think the same value of salmon lice so that the more monitors and cleaning, and that it makes sure that salmon fires don't get bad, because there's less chance these people will come. As a result, I also want to join in worrying about my fishing partner in the country from a fish farm. In some way, we need to try to make peace with hunting companies and other things so that we can have these jobs in harmony and harmony. I understand the need for fish farming in these delicate areas where there is a need for a job structure. This is a huge deal in that regard, but as I say we should, and we must always be guided by nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u7	President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. I want to ask you why. A senator in the definition of when we are preserving wild strains. Let us take an example of a river that was not caught in the late 1980's. It then releases salmon or initiates some kind of life in it, whether it is salmon, pink, or anything else. Does the senator believe that after being released into the river some kind of fish, the river has got a wild root? Perhaps we are referring to the fact that as long as the oldest humans remember, a certain species of fish in the river were fished and thus the stock is lost in it? I don't remember what happened. A senator is on the committee -- No, okay, then I'm not going to ask him about this technical thing. [[Foreground on: No.]] However, it is important to remember that this has been introduced and discussed, not only on the committee, but also publicly, that there are several counters needed to reduce the likelihood, I'm not going to say to prevent the fact that it is a big word, that wild salmon can survive in these rivers that we truly want to preserve. I admit that I enjoy fishing and being out in the wild, but I also enjoy seeing human life and employment build up in most parts of the country. I wonder what. A senator has studied or received a presentation on which counter measures might help us to maintain these years without necessarily reducing the possibility of making employment in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. I have not fully studied these counter measures, but I would support any action that would lead to the risk of a firefish going up into the river as low as possible. I understand the Norse have divers to keep track of this. This may tell us a story about a large fish coming up, or it's a feeling if a divers needs help. Then it's about wild salmon. Wild fish are those who have grown up in the river and are only there from the beginning. But I know that we've been using salmon from a nearby source, so we kind of have a wild stock. It's taken from a wild stock and switched to another. It must be the best way, then we've got salmon that's always been around the environment and I'd say it was the best. And then I also know that we've been out in a year, and you don't know what salmon was putting in there. I don't like it because you don't know how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u9	V.E.G. President. If I recall this correctly, it was here for years or even decades being a vacation during those years with releases that came in largely from the same station - I can't remember whether it was from the Feldrum or Kollifjordur. This was released in Iceland to try to get rivers started and to make hunting and life in them. It's not a wild salmon population, it's obvious. You've also seen the difference between catching on where there are friends and big fish, and then you're driving nothing very long to the next on, where you're cursed dicks, all sorts of other fish. We need mine to know well what we want to define as original or wild or how we want to protect it. I'm not putting the same symbol between growing up with all kinds of strains that come from somewhere else and aim it for a year where it's just a wild stock that we so clearly want to protect. There are many ways to perform counter measures. If a person suspects that he has been released, a divers has been sent down to the river to see if there are any fish found. It's technology that we saw in the news a few days ago where a picture of every fish that goes up into the rivers, and so on. Also, there's evolution in the fire. But just to be clear, why? A senator does not object to salmon farming, he does not object to fire, but he does want to be careful, allowing nature to enjoy the doubt in which value and protection are clearly involved. That's what I'll take, if I get it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. He said: "Yes, we're all on the page that I have fish farms, but I also want to stand with nature and natural fish. What I'm also worried about is these counter measures in the fish fire. We do not know how warming works. We know that now the pink is yielding as a result of warming, and then we do not know how pollution will affect the wild salmon population. We're dealing with a variety of things, but with these things we control with fish and other things, we should always be careful that nature enjoys the doubt. It's my opinion that we should do everything we can to make sure of it. At the same time, we also need to consider the fishing industry because we may also have a future food supply. It's just part of our environment, but we have to do it that way too. I know it may be hard to get this up onto land, in heifers up to the shore, but we're supposed to be going for it. Of course, if there is a modern - day growth or future, this is to be built up, it should be used to protect nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u11	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill to correct the transformation of various laws related to fish farms. I think it's very good that we're completing the discussion of building stronger foundations for fish farming and strengthening all the laws on this important career to the future, not only for the local region, but also for the national structure as such. There we have the opportunity to strengthen the nation's economy and increase the export value of goods. Some 70,000 tons of fish are said to provide an overall value of 65 billion in total, and there may be about 730 jobs, 420 secondary jobs, a total of 1,200 jobs, compared to the fact that fish farms go up to 70,000 tons as the current possibility of doing so. Last year alone, only about 11,000 tons were produced, so we still have some to reach these 70,000 tons. The article has been building up gradually, and I believe that in some respects it is good for men to get in trouble. Or it may be said that governments have drawn their feet to meet the growth and growth of the branches by not coming until now with these layers around the fishery. There are a number of factors to look at, and as mentioned above, there is a natural part of this work that makes it stand up to environmental issues and that the article is as sustainable as well as all the environmental factors involved in it are carefully protected and monitored. I believe that the suit that has come about now following the work of the Committee and the adjustment proposals presented after the work of the Committee between 1 and 2. if they are all concerned that they will further strengthen the perspective of the article from both sides, both that the article itself has called, to eliminate uncertainty about factors such as how a risk assessment model will be built up by scientists in the Marine Research Agency and from the environment, how we can further strengthen that we are not at risk of our original salmon stocks, and that we do not take the risk of genetic involvement with the salmon stocks of the country. I think we're going very carefully in that area, looking for any advice to reduce the risk of genetic mix, and trusting our most skilled scientists in the material that will work with this risk assessment and model. The risk assessment is now being established and this should take into account counterweight measures that reduce the possibility of genetic preparation. It is, in fact, there. light management of committees and Sea size, Matrix bags and other measures that can be done to reduce the genetic mixture and risk of these agents. A marine research agency will also look for suggestions from the executives themselves on the challenges of companies developing and counting the best of these materials and looking to the latest technologies and to the Norwegians with enormous experience in these products. In the work of the Committee, there were new technologies in the changing legislation, including the installing of a scientific committee outside the Marine Research Institute, which will also address the risk assessment model. I think it would very good to put it through a scientific committee, that the Minister will appoint three scientists on that committee to review the risk assessment at the Marine Research Institute and give credit for May 1st, 2020. The secretary will then report to the General Report on how he will react to the result of the review of the independent Scientific Committee that is covering the work of the Marine Research Agency. Better to see eyes than eyes, as they say. Although there is no lack of confidence in the scientists who are working on risk assessment in the Marine Research Institute, it is always very good for scientists from other sources to review it. Granted, it is of utmost importance to such areas as the Icefjörg deep that is closed today because it has not yet come up with a risk assessment or has not yet reached the point where it can be opened to fish farms in open heifers. As it looks now, I am very optimistic about not passing long until it becomes clear what the rest will be in the building of a marine farm, e.g. In the depths of Iceaf, so I'll name it. Over the past few years, I feel that the bill has been given a lot of support and that we added to the board of consultations that is nominated in the bill that the Environment Ministry will appoint representatives into that board of consultations. It should be said that this Convention Committee will not affect the results of the Marine Research Institute for their proposal to go to sea-veil about a model of risk assessment for those areas that have been structurally assessed. Still, it is very good to have this field of conversation with the shepherds who come to discuss some of the issues involved in the growth and maintenance of fish farms and also look to all the factors involved in this article. I'd like to thank all the people who have done the case, the Commission who have worked very hard together and have made tours, both south of the West, and to Norway, and to study sea farms in those areas, and to see how important it has been for building in the country, both in the south of the West and in Norway, and then there's a huge development phase on the East coasts. All of this matters to us that we make good progress, that the lawgiver is willing to build around this growing commercial legislation explains laws that the industry knows how to work in and that we look to the criticism that has come from the environmental sector, that we need to be careful about genetic preparation and all environmental factors, risking disease and many of which we trust in our good professionals and institutions to be effective monitoring and monitoring. I think it's gone very well. One thing, however, stands out further and has been examined in more detail between 1 and 2. Um... i.e. where we draw the line on applications that are in the system today, whether they fall under the old laws or the new ones. We've been looking for a very clear view of where we draw that line. We'll take the case back between the 2nd and 3rd. on the job board where we will present a proposal in that subject and will base it on the professional opinion it has made between discussions and watching to face because a number of companies have been working for many years to meet applications for fish farming. We want to take into account the amount of work that lies behind and the cost of money that has been spent, but we also don't want future years to be the applications of companies in a marine farm based on the old law. It doesn't make any sense. The line has to be drawn in a perfunctory way. I'll finish here. I believe that the case was handled well by an authority official and by other committees who have spoken from a professional committee. We'll settle the matter at this council because I think that what everybody calls to do is to eliminate uncertainty and that we have a solid basis for building this article to the future for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u12	A respectable president. I thank the head of the professional Presidency Committee for a fine talk and a review on this matter. I agree with that. It is important for a senator to control these activities, to have rules and laws clearly, and not to have the need to touch as many items as possible there. On the other hand, I'd like to ask. A senator whether I have correctly understood that there is any doubt on the grounds of those applying for permission, saying two years or one year ago, applying for permission, on which laws they are based their applications. It can hardly be normal to change the rules afterwards, i.e. The laws that will go into effect now must apply to the future, what will take place after it has taken effect. I've never known that laws can be restored. It must even produce some kind of reform or something like that. It leads me to what I don't understand, either. How is it that a greater proportion of the committee is now working on some adjustment form in this regard of 8. ... and has not informed members of the Central Party who are involved in it, who have worked faithfully to make this case better and as good as possible? The information is kept from them as to what is being made up of the changes that the senator mentioned to be to come in. It is very special that not all people who feel the opinion of the greater part are informed and are presented to them as to what is being done. These are the questions and speculations I would like to address. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The commission was that those who had reached the longest point in their application procedure could enter the old law. For the committee, a lawyer from the University of Iceland, who had considered whether the State was subject to damages if all applications that were inside the system were zeroed out when the law went into effect that we are discussing. He concluded that the State was not subject to harm. From that point on, the committee began to work on what could be done in that regard. It was true that opinions within the committee varied whether the whole matter should even be zeroed out or not or taken apart. In our view, the conclusion was to be moderate. Applications that have been submitted and that have not finished are not handled as such and that they are not being spoken of as some retrospective law covering them. Applications that are not yet in progress in the system are just not ready to be finished and can be built on and therefore there is no illegal use of new laws on applications that have not been completed in the system. There's nothing unnatural about that. In view of this lawyer's view that the state was not a liability, although it was all zeroed out from the date when this law went into effect, the committee has been considering what we can do on a very serious matter and has been primarily looking at it. Maybe I'll come into it better in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u14	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I repeat it, and I ask. A member of the council whether it is normal for those who are on the committee opinion with the greater part to be held in the dark with what is the adjustment in the motion of the greater part being involved? Is it reasonable that they are not shown up, sit down with them, and introduce the changes mentioned? Hv. A senator indicated what is being done in the mountains. Did I understand the senator correctly that one of the ideas is possible that a group of companies, who have applied for permission or are in the process, will be granted an allocation under the old law and others don't? Should a specific time point be based on the date when you apply for the application, considering what you have already received in the procedure? It should also be noted that the equality of those who have applied for it. Of course, I'm not a law major, and it may well be that the lawyer's condition. A senator testified to the conclusion that there is no need to respect or consider the applications based on the old law. Rather, they will be referred to these new laws. However, I find it very special, although only because of a prince's failure to sit at the same table and apply in good faith, at great cost to research and such. The basic questions are: Feel it bad. A senator normal to keep his members on the committee opinion outside the information, that they are not introduced to them, that they are completely in the dark? And is it correct to understand that it would somehow be appropriate to divide the number of people applied according to the old law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u15	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is not a newborn member of politics, and he knows that some cases need to be worked a little longer before they are taken to fellow political parties, even though they are involved. This issue has been in the process of intensive implementation, assessment within the Food Agency, the Organization and the EEA. All of this is added together, where the applications are attached to the three institutions that have access to the case. The job permit is at the Department of Employment, the Department of Environment, and this has been considered by our complete consent to the Commission, as I understand it, that we are dealing with the perennial way of looking at those who have put up with this great amount of work and cost and are in the long run to complete their applications in the process, that they go through the old law, but that those who are working very short on the way of the new law. To draw that line, we want us to have a solid land, that we are doing this so that there is no doubt in the legislation when it comes to determining where an enterprise is divided, in the first or the second group. We are now finding conclusions in the material that we will introduce to the job committee between 2 and 3. It's just not been time to introduce it until we have a fixed land under our feet in the material where we can draw the cut line and there's no uncertainty where the institutions that accept an application for the companies and have applications classified as companies, so they have to apply for the new law or fall under the old law. This is a work that has been going on with the main authority of the case. [[The president calls.]] We and I as president have been informed about the matter, but there is no reason to discuss this at an open meeting where the matter has been on a delicate level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for a fine talk and her good work on the Committee on the case. We've been going on for two years, and we've been very good together in this important and challenging matter. I'd take it from the senator's answer to a question why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, about the application procedure we've been talking about in Article 8. I find a slight misunderstanding in my answer, but I expect it to interfere very quickly. I'd like to ask the senator about three things. I'm going to take the second answer to the second, but the senator mentioned the relationship with risk assessment and countermeasures. Risk assessment has had small protests in the discussion, but is it not possible for us to tighten our level of work on counterweight measures so that almost 0% of genetic risks can be discussed so that both factors, risk assessment, and counterweight measures can work together in the genetic mix problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator warms the words to the chairman of the committee. It is absolutely true that we have worked very well together, all members of the committee, away from groups in this case. Just so I mention it, we know that laws can never be repeated and, of course, need to be built up new applications and the reviews that are supported by new legislation. I couldn't agree more. A senator with the fact that risk assessment and counter measures need to be played together, and as it is prepared now, I have faith that it will and will therefore be a great deal of desire to work well, carefully, and helplessly. Much knowledge is based both in the article itself and also in the relevant institutions of Veterans Institutes. These demonstrations are well - known, and they are already being used by the Oceanographic Institute with cameras to test in Isafjörður. I have full faith that this article will build quickly and well in the environment and at peace with nature and that the local people will be happy that this structure is well built.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u18	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I think it's excellent that we can work together and that we have the same vision in that regard. Then there are two more points presented in the contrast with the provisional exercise made by the senator. Now it's time to take this part. Visitors on the committee have been observed to also be seen to see to it that officials, familiar with local standards, are considered for their longevity. There are natural differences in the distance between the currents, how the bottom is, how life is cleansed locally, and how much fish it can carry. I don't think it's mentioned in the bill as such but I'd think it'd be important to have people who are familiar with localities. In connection with the icebed of Ishafra, the senator's speech correctly stated that it is closed, but the senator spoke of her optimistic view that it would soon become clear there. I'd like to ask the senator if she can explain clearly what she sees in the matter of fire in the depths of Ishafra.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is precisely the counterbillary action that is made clear in this matter and that has also become even more relevant to the second committee's proposals. They are involved in strengthening the risk assessment and the work of the Marine Research Institute in such areas as Ishafjörg. I think it'll make it more likely than it's less likely to be, so I'll talk very political, sooner or later what the conclusion will be. I think that this bill will be agreed on by our town scientists, and we already have the tools and tools to work in an antiquities program to work on it and to build the model on which the risk assessment is based. I'm very optimistic about it, and I'm glad it's all going into the process. I point out that it is very important that we finish the matter at this council, that we do not drag it out until the fall. I trust the entire body of Congress has an understanding that this article calls out for the completion of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u20	V.E.G. President. We here discuss a bill to correct the change in various fish farming laws (general assessment, distribution of fire areas, administrative fines, etc.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s This bill has been going on for the last two years. At the end of the last assembly, the decision was made to postpone the case for further development and to have a huge number of work done in the winter in this case. I must, as others have done, and I happily do so, thanking the Committee for good cooperation, and the head of the Commission for excellent and very fine management; it's been very good working on the Committee. On the contrary, it has been that everyone from his heart has been working to achieve success and prosperity for the benefit of all the people. Of course, it is so important to have such an operation in nature that all factors and abilities are looked to. And that's what I think everybody's been riding on. I don't live on the West, but I live in the next town, on Snæfellsnes, and I've been watching the West or been connected there for some years. When I first stepped into the assembly as a deputy in 2013, I remember that I soon traveled west with members of the council to do so. looking at fish farms. At that time, they were starting to arrive, and it was a tremendous joy to see the life that had just started again. I am not saying, though, that it had no life before, but to see the growth that had begun and the optimism. The people of the settlements in the West had a flash in their eye. I had seen the years before that the number of people on the West was shrinking. Professional life was on a tight schedule. Then, with that force, the fish fire comes in, and then the whole thing turned around. Now, the most powerful species in the West, at least in the South Fjords, have become substantially less abated than the local salmon fire has become. It's been completely mutagenic, and it's very joyous. At the same time, there was an immediate concern that we were not to go too close to nature, that we had to let nature enjoy the doubt. I agree with that, and I think that's everyone. That there has been a record of success in the fact that all parties can agree with the outcome. It is a community, national and environmental matter, and these three factors all need to be okay when this is over. In the fall, we on a job committee went west, and it was a very enjoyable visit. Then I found this difference in 2013, the magnitude of growth, and the possibilities ahead of me if things are handled correctly. It appeared earlier in the Chairman's speech, and in fact, I knew that if the production of fish fish is up to 70,000 tons, it would be about 65 billion in value and industry. Last year the production was 11,000 tons and has increased over the last five to six years. So there is optimism that the rest is good. But as I said earlier, it must be arranged so that this structure is made of responsibility. I was also going to mention, before I go further, that the employment committee's visit to Norway during the winter was truly pleasant and beneficial to us. The chairman of the Committee deserves credit for having received it. It wasn't a personal thing. It is not a personal thing and it is not customary for the above to go abroad to get information or to go on a job trip. I am very grateful that we made it on this trip. We had been calling for it quite a while, and it became reality. We went to Bergen, Norway, where we lived for about a year. week to collect Seaports, fishing companies, lectures, and so on. The experience of North England in fish farming is well over 50 years of age, and they have many shorelines. Things have worked out. They've had all kinds of problems, and salmon fire went down pretty much over there for a period of time. Now that it is in a very upbuilding phase, they have learned from past experiences, and we can learn from them what they have done and what they have not. There were a lot of things on this trip that shed light on things you didn't know, so that's all. There will be men, for example. It's a lot of talk about how a fish mixes with wild fish, and in this bill, it's a big deal about that, is starting a risk assessment. It has not been undisputed, and it has not been determined how the criteria used in the risk assessment are met and how they are calculated. You have heard from visitors that they have a different view of it, and some just want to approach it in a different way and even talk about it, even those who want to be careful about it and also play a business of cooking, that the risk should be 0%, not 4%, as in the risk assessment. But as it happened earlier, I was talking about what I was talking about. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, has developed quite well in Norway. We have begun to follow along with them here too, as we have seen, in two years we are in the depths of Isenaf, and we are excited to know how it works. The fish pass through a semi-employed silo to form the fish, and if a fish is suspected of being from salmon farms, it can be taken to the river. This sounds a little strange, but this has been the case with the Norwegians with good results. It's working for them. There may be different kinds of gaps between rivers, their intensity of water, or how they are built up, how these things can be handled. But I'm sure it can be done elsewhere. I believe that this can be very effective. In the context of the risk assessment, there was also a change in the treatment situation that Hall is not on either side of the risk assessment table but that there is also a minister of that sort. They feel that it is the right thing to do here that Frodo is not placed on either side of the table, completely with the science show, and also with the right decision. Keep in mind merely being a scientific institution and adviser as such. There has been talk of, and talk back and forth, closed covens and land management. In a developing phase, most of which may be short enough to cross Iceland's coasts or on the shores of Iceland. The problem is mainly high altitudes because they do not tolerate high altitudes. It has largely been the factor that has been said to cause them not to be able to cope with that stress, not immediately. Closed heifers are thus built up to inject them from clean waters and then from fish to fish, pump them into some kind of tank or other form of tank, or at least from the area where the heifer stands. Then there's the landfire. We heard out in Norway that it is used only in a few cases. It's not much of a building phase. It is also a very expensive equipment, but it is all under inspection. The Norwegians are building fish farms in the sea, and it is built like the oil pots, on the mechanism on which they stand. At that time, we are talking about much more seas, much more depth and a much lower risk of pollution from waste because of more depth, more currents, and because of a much higher nature - controlled clearance phase. It will be very exciting to observe this trend. In addition, the equipment is so large and so large that one such equipment carries more than a thousand tons of fish or more at least hundreds of levels. It'll be fun to keep track of it. It also happened earlier, and it has been discussed here that you will need a full-scale licence clean up so that all applicants are sitting at the same table. I'm putting it in the first place when this ends at this council that it will be completely clear that this article of the bill, 8. g., make it clear that all parties are sitting at the same table. It's a good thing that the review of the law goes on no later than May 2024 because we're not going to get it into stone with this bill, although we've done very well with this case, it's a living document, and we need to be revised constantly. Times change, and humans change, and nature also. Conditions change and situations may arise that we do not see today; there must be a review phase that can be dealt with. That's the way it is. As I came in earlier, this case is in great structure, and many have expressed concern. So we've wanted to be more careful about this, as I listed earlier, by mixing with wild fish, by nature, and so forth. I have full faith that we can put our arms around it, but as I said, we need to reevaluate the results and then work on it. I'm not going to keep it all the further, but I'm right that I'm really happy with this job and how it's done. I'm putting it now, however, that the application procedure needs to be quite clear, all parties involved in fish farming applications must sit at the same table so that things cannot be misunderstood or misconstrued so that there are problems where you cannot deal with what has been started. After that, I thank you for the time being, and I'll call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u21	A respectable president. We'll discuss the new fish farm bill. No one has overlooked the fact that the fishing fire it has produced in the community much turmoil. Looks like someone, including me at the time, before I enjoyed the privilege of being in trouble. A professional health committee. I was quite contrary to the fact that there would be cultivated fish in open seashells, I watched horrible images in which nature and the whole room just got ruined, and I just didn't feel anything about it. I got, just like what I got. paritaprevir The Sigurður Páll mentioned earlier, enjoying the privilege of visiting the southern part of the West in early autumn, and seeing in summary how things are going on, how, in fact, fish farming the things that have been built up in this place, all the equipment of the people in these tiny TVs has completely changed. Well, I guess we haven't taken part of it, and we all know what it was like when the so - called exorbitant exodus and the settlements, the little bifocals all over the country, were left in wounds where the residents fled because they had nothing to do with it anymore. There were no sources left in the settlements, and the most prosperous settlements became fragile for an amazing short period of time. On the other hand, how can you do things and do them well? But then it comes to this: What's the problem and who's the most concerned about what effect, for example. An accident to a fish that isn't a goatfish can carry on wild salmon stocks? The nature of the matter is something we need to discuss, and it is here at the high Council that politicians must take responsibility for how we get these things away from us. This bill has been tried to match various suggestions for improvement and for better security. We don't want accidents. We don't want salmon lice. We don't want to have too much medicine, and we don't want too much pollution under these heifers, which, in turn, affect the environment around us. That's why, a respectable president, we're really trying to resist the fact that this is not going to be done. We have, like a professional committee - I did not have the privilege of being with them when they visited Norway during the days to see how the Norwegians have been developing their policies and advancing their salmon farms. On the other hand, I visited the Faeroe Islands with the Western Council, and there we were also found to see how the Faeroes have developed and carried out their policies. What I'm worried about is what's wrong with us - when we talk about Norway, Faeroe Islands, Iceland - we're different and we have different circumstances. We don't have long, deep, quiet feathers. We have good currents where we see our coronation and possibly greater cleaning, but that does not change the fact that there is much more surveillance as in the Faeroe Islands, where it is measured weekly, where it is expanded and being measured and clearly feels that there will be no new growth until after they have been given a certain month without any kind of fire. I think it is in the range of 6◯8 months that should simply not add new income, but promise to rest. That's basic. It is also fundamental that we respect the fact that here in our community is our wild salmon, where hunting and farmers are everywhere, all the things that really build on and have great interest in being careful not to get caught in exactly because it is driving a firefish up into the rivers and having irreversible consequences. Of course, this is the responsibility of the government. I would have liked to have seen much more surveillance in the vicinity of the environment, where we know that we had become an accident, and it took up to ten days to react and arrive at our place. That's not adequate. It seems to be moving towards at least to put your mind on it better. But better, if it's enough. I would have liked to see a much greater and more strict follow-up, to see, for example. ... totheexploitorwho'svery active. The nations we've spoken of, both Norwegian and Faeroese, have experienced their decline in this regard. We may feel lucky in that we can avoid suffering the same bad things they did. However, that does not change the fact that we must try to do so in harmony. We cannot be completely divided in this regard, and we must also try to do this so as to meet these potential dangers and see what this is doing. However, in order to make peace, it is our here to prevent the irreversible damage to living things. I don't mean to keep this far, but of course we have to put our broken ground behind us, and of course we have to do our best in this regard. That's what we're doing here and now. Not long ago, we had to run up to our hands and feet, where suddenly we lost permission to continue in the West. In fact, during the council, the leg and toughness grew, and in one day we managed to prevent damage. That is why it is very important that we secure our legislation, but we must continue to improve it. We have to keep on making sure. I heard something like that. The Norwegian council has now been taken, at least As far as putting up cameras in the Deep. It doesn't change the fact that they have divers who regularly monitor and it's really holding it, it's really making sense to try to avoid letting go and that it's just going out of beds. That's exactly what we have to do, and I believe that. The head of the professional road committee will not yield if I know it correctly, to continue to improve and correct this. I'm sorry, I haven't been able to follow along on the committee long enough because of working in another committee that always overlaps with a job committee, but it doesn't change the fact that the last time I was there was talking about what was not good enough for me: it was really only one hand to follow this more and less. There was a connection with Edro. Although there are many good things to say and that there are our experts, I would have liked to see more extensive outdoors than maybe that has changed. True, I don't see it on the bill. It was as if a minister was putting away his commission just to Cape, and I thought it was kind of strange. That's why it would be fun if it were. A senator and the head of a professional committee told me something fun about how it had been fixed, and I was just so reluctant in this case that I didn't see it. I would love that. I think we're on the right track, despite the fact that, as I say, in the beginning, we were completely against salmon farming in the form we're talking about here and now, and in fact, my arguments were almost just because it's just, you know, the only reason I was. Now you know better, and I've taken in some knowledge that wasn't there then, and I'm just saying to those who are opposed to this, because just because I encourage them to know what enormous interests it is for those who come and get a job. I think there are about 300 jobs around this, e.g. ... southoftheWestland. Would that not be, in view of the number of people, around 9,000 cigarettes if we were talking about proportions? I think it'd be quite a bite for us to swallow if 9,000 or 10,000 Smokes were to lose their job overnight. So we must keep on trying to build up the broken - down settlements and to meet them with all our means. As I say, I encourage a professional committee and all of us to continue to act and hope that we will keep our arms on this and take responsibility for it and do our best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u22	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss fish farms here. I want to start out like a lot of guys. Councilmen have mentioned in their talks, especially members of the committee, to say that the work has been done very well and that it has been a good partnership with the Committee on this big and important matter. I'm sure this is one of the biggest cases taken up on a pro board, one of the biggest in the winter. The matter actually came to the committee last year, too, so the discussion has been extensive. As we have seen, we have visited the South in the West and gone to Norway, so the work has been extremely good, materially very good, and exemplary in the complexities we discuss here on how all the work and research has been done. In Iceland, when we compare ourselves with other countries in fish farms, the risk is risk assessment. What is suggested here is the fact that the risk assessment will be fundamental. It's about this aspect of the matter that we're looking at, how we're doing it. For example, in Norway, a special facility, we learned in the Norway tour, is a so - called traffic light food provided by the Norwegians a few years ago. It's more about the salmon lice, which is a big problem in Norway. There are warmer waters and other conditions. It is the intention of the Commission and the members of the Parliament who have been involved in this work on a job committee that has established a long - term fishing industry in Iceland on scientific grounds. In fact, scientific knowledge is guided by all of our work, looking to nature protection and such factors, that we defend nature as far as possible through good scientific work and knowledge for the new industry in the fish industry. As indicated by the changes made in the majority of the workaholics, we establish factors and add them, as is the fact that a minister appoints three fishermen, strains of genetics, and/or ecology to review the methodology used by the Marine Research Institute for the assessment of vehicle tolerance and risk assessment. The committee shall give its opinion and proposal to the Minister before May 1st, 2020. The secretary shall then submit a report on the findings of the Committee and their response. During our trip to Norway, we met stakeholders, we met many of the scientific people, both in the Norwegian Oceanographic Institute and then in the NORCE, also a large, extensive research center, which includes. In Norway, fish breeders are taking over. NORCE contains about 100 experts who are involved in scientific work on fish farms, and the Norwegian Oceanographic Institute also contains 100 other scientists. Norway then contains some 200 scientists in these two institutions. A lot of discussion has been made in the trade board, especially after the Norway tour, that of course we would like to have a little access to foreign scientists in the fish fire so that we can have the very best scientific knowledge behind the fish farm in Iceland. I'm not going to have particularly long cases of this end, but I just want to get on to the potential economic impact of fish farming in Iceland. We learned in the Norway tour that fishing began there some 50 years ago. About 1970 it started. The Norwegians had significant problems during the first few decades, and we can learn much from the Norwegian work in this matter. During the last few years, in the last 10◯15 years, there has been a tremendous growth in the fishing industry there. Today, in Norway about 1,100,000 tons of salmon, and Norwegians have set the goal in their policies that by the year 2050, after 30 years, about 5 million tons of fish will become fish farms in the sea farm in salmon with Norway. We're on our high-bearing assessment of 130,000 tons, and today we have a risk assessment of some 70,000 tons. When we're dealing with these laws now, surely one would have liked to watch them appear before something since then, this law on the basis of what we're putting forward here would have had to have been presented for a little more than 5◯10 years. We're a little late in this process, but I think we're doing very good things and thinking about a longer future to improve the situation. The economic effects in Norway are enormous, and we see from wide and wide around Norway that this large supply of fish in the North Sea has transformed entire communities. The economic difference in Iceland could be an enormously high, 70,000 tons of fire, with an increase of about 50 to 60 billion in export prices. This, in turn, comes down mainly and affects the weather and the Eastern world, as it is now, and has a tremendous amount to say in my view of the long future for these settlements. What Norwegians envied of us, but they observe what we have to offer in Iceland in fish farms, and what I think is learned in this bed of years we've been at this work, it is that the competitiveness of Iceland's farming in salmon is about us putting out a lot of heavy wastes and the natural conditions we have to use hot water, a lot of access to good and cold water and then warm water. Putting out a big waste of money is really our big thing if we want to be competitive. Then we lose months where the salmon grows up in sealands so that the process could likely take 10◯12 months instead of a traditional process that could be 18 to520 months. This is what I think is our big competition and will make us very strong. It was evident that when we met Norwegian fish farmers and experts in Norway, they were jealous of our fish farms. For example, when people were in Norway when they were in their time in a sea farm, they were setting up a total of 40 to 1,600 pounds [40,550 g] of fish. They've grown in Norway, but in Iceland it's a lot to go on and you've heard in recent years that people have even been setting up a $3,300,700 - pound (U.S.). This contributes to the project that a major issue will be ours. This means that there is a considerable amount of time, more time in sea farms, or in fish farms in Iceland in salmon than in seawater. I'm sure we'll have the highest rate in it, with the fish actually on the land, from the time the salmon is slaughtered. This has tremendous implications, too, because experts tell us that as they go into the water, as they grow, they become so much more poor as the size and weight of the fish is greater. It's our speciality in my opinion, and it's going to be very exciting to watch how this works. But the big issue in all of this, even if you don't go on any more, is that you get the best of peace with fish for the long future. I know it's gonna be hard to get her, there's big and big opinions in this case, between the hunters and the fish farmers, but it's gonna get as comfortable as we defend the nature of the country by any means possible. It is also a marvelous interest for fish farmers and fish farmers, fish farms, that they will be treated well, and that runaways and such risk factors will be kept in absolute minimum. We put it into this code we're working here that these factors should be taken into account, e.g. around business licenses and other things, so if you plan to be in this sector for a long time, it's everyone's common interest that things are going well, not going around on nature, and that you get to have the most doubt in all this process. I'm glad we're making it clear, and hopefully we'll be done in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, as well as I would like to use this opportunity to thank him for his particular pleasant cooperation in the Committee on This Issue. Of course, there are many aspects. One side is the one that I made up of a subject at the conclusion of my talk earlier today, that there is no conclusion yet on how the available application will be handled. I'm righting that and the reiteration that I then said that an important aspect of the matter is how a business permit will be handled. This is also an important factor for the reason that the very financial interests of the concerned people are here. It has not been easy to find out where that matter is. I wanted in. A senator who's in the middle of nowhere. The members of the members of this body that meet together to the government, whether he can inform on this point, and to explain when a decision can be expected in these matters, perhaps when, as well as those outside the greater part of the body, would be introduced to the greater portion's opinion, and key advantages considered in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u24	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. It was introduced to how late we are in the process of this law column, and one would have liked to see it appear five or ten years ago. Now it is a bit of us to find the point where we feel fair about the licenses and other things that have been many for a very long time in the process, but perhaps because of the inadequacy of government, it has been very possible to work on it. Most of the employment committees'opinion appeared around 20 May, but it is merely missed when it was precisely dated. But the reason, like what happened. A senator knows that we will take the matter back to the point. Work committees between 2 and 3rd. is that we've been building evidence to cover the precise part of a business that has to deal with its surfaces and version. So I assume that it will happen in the next few hours, no later than tomorrow, that we will get the conclusion and then we will be able to build our conclusions by 3. in the evidence that we are hopefully receiving, and then we agree on where the normal surgical point is in this case to ensure that all fairness is properly maintained. The matter is difficult and complicated, and as mentioned in my talk, I would have liked to have it discussed five or ten years ago when we were right at the outset. It's been a lot and a long process in many versions of licenses and other things. There's something we can do about it afterward. That is why it will also become even more complex. There are many changes, but we are trying to cope with this with reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u25	Mr. President. First and foremost, I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. I know that he wants to work hard to show reasonableness and so forth. However, I would like to allow it to be mentioned, and I would have thought that it would not be out of the way of those members of Congress who have worked hard to create the most broad solid solidarity in this matter, as it would show to form a majority - wing and support of it, would be shown the credible, perhaps showing consideration that they would be informed about how to reach a satisfactory decision in the case, as presented in the case. A senator is not an easy subject, but that is the way it is grown that you can see that it will be different from what it will be, and that I will use a word. A senator, a reasonable conclusion. That's what I'd like to say about this subject -- I'm fine that we're in the hall somewhere else. A member of the board of directors, I mean why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér, also chairman of this important matter - that these views are very clear and that the information in this subject has become very urgent. I know that when they are called for, they take it very seriously, and even when it comes to such matters, perhaps they are getting a little nervous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u26	Mr. President. I understand the senator's concern over this process and agree with it. Other than that, I refer to my first answer when I said that misunderstanding was a lot. I hope we make a good time, hopefully later today, but I don't think it'll all be later than tomorrow, considering what we're trying to do here at the council. We're going to finish this before the summer, before the Senate's over. Hopefully, we can do our job when the day passes by in this big, big affair. That's all I have to say about it at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u27	President. You can rightly say that this case is the other side of the same coin as the case we were taking a break in the discussion, i.e. Total books on the fish fire. We're looking at the payback side here. I took my story regarding the other matter over the ideas that are going on about the price of the environmental fund of sea farms. Here's the thing that's going to bring the total payoff. There have been various viewpoints in this regard over the years. It's like the highest. In fact, in the history of the case, a marine dignitary minister and agri-gri-gri-grit is especially considered here to see how the amount of payment is available on the Faeroe Islands. I believe one of the main advantages of that process is that the price falls on quantity, no matter when it was released. We know in other countries that the fee may be paid for the release of the permits, but since this cannot be done overreached, I find this to some degree a reasonable way in which the cost of production is just available to everyone. Hv. The job committee got a number of visitors, and maybe it's time to tell us that we worked these matters together, because, as I said at the outset, it's some way in which the two sides of the same coin were made. The big lines in this bill are suggested to be adopted for fish farming in the sea and to form a fish farm. The main purpose of the bill is to strengthen the construction of infrastructures where marine farming is practiced, thereby strengthening communities and the support of employment in contaminated areas. The objective of the bill is, in turn, to provide additional support to institutions that will supervise and investigate the seminary. The Committee general delights in approval of a bill for reimbursement in fish farms. It was evident that some sort of currency had to be paid. Of course, it does have various viewpoints and studies. the impact of fish farming on structural development, etc. And there was a view of the need for reimbursement to be set to begin with, in order that the Marketing Authorisation Holders would have room to develop their activities and build up their own business. The majority agree with the above views and feel that the currency proposed in the bill is consistent with them. The bill may help us to recall that in seven years, the currency is uprooted. The committee was advised that in reimbursement it was necessary to stimulate the Marketing Authorisation Holder to engage in environmental production. The majority agree with this view and therefore contributes to a change of 4 mg. 2.g. the purpose and the implementation of unfertilized salmon and salmon that are brought up in closed fire equipment will be postponed until 2029. Here we take the refuge for some price that the bill expected for fire on unfertilized salmon and salmon that are used in closed cooking equipment. It's in the spirit of what we've gone over in the fish farms itself, having economic incentives for the business to go into a business that's environmentally friendly. Among the criticism shown on the bill was the lack of a planned currency to the rural community, and it was noted that the construction of fish breeds was accompanied by the need for the construction of the components. The majority of the data shows that the intended remuneration is for use by marine areas which do not compromise the direct rights of possession, as sea installations lie in areas outside the territory of the rural community. Therefore, communities are not removed from rights and are not prevented from their independence. The majority, however, agree with the view that there is a need to ensure that they are allowed to share what is created, since the bill assumes it. The majority point out that the role of a fish farm is to strengthen the structure of wood in which fish farming is practiced. This aim is to strengthen the support of rural employment and to help build up society. The majority of these points out that it is necessary for fish to grow and build up as a sector to support it. That is why we feel that there is a great advantage in having a special fish farm that keeps our income in place. Such a fund would also have a better view of distribution, that it would be in line with the industry. However, the majority suggest the change to Article 2 of the 5th paragraph. 7. If he goes away, for it is not right to give a bill in special terms, yet it is emphasized that from the year 2021 onward, the fund receives a contribution from a trust fund. President. This is a new fee. They're about to start a new way for new jobs. The majority of them consider it important that fish farming currency is always based on a fair and grammatical basis in which environmental factors and equilibrium are viewed in a business exchange between state and rural society. During the current year, a white book on fish farming is expected in Norway. It can be assumed that it contains useful information and normal that it will submit an overall re-examination of the Member State's currency. The majority also feel that with the revision, there will be a proper payment in the Faeroe Islands. The majority stress that at the time of the revision, it will be considered specifically to have powerful economic attractions that promote environmental production and view the switch between state and rural society, while ensuring that the payment is under needed supervision. This will involve looking to the total share of all the items presented on the article, how they will build up during their early years, and when it will be right to take full effect. In view of all of the information presented here, the majority of the items suggest a review of the implementation procedures will be completed on January 1, 2021. In other words, we suggest that a full review be made on the points I read, and the bill will be agreed with the changes that may include: This review and to be considered in a committee study with a change in proposal. Under these publications, along with the individuals listed here. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, Njáll Friðbertsson, and Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u28	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my share of the employment committee with a change in bill for remuneration due to fish farms and fish farms. The smaller portion emphasizes that the nation is involved in the use of its resources. Counts the smaller item to add a cut at 2. g. The bill pays the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder to the resources generated in the business and by the yield of the funds bound to their activities and is considered normal with regard to the risks involved. However, the annual fluctuation in the survival of an enterprise has to be taken into account. Pay on 2 st G's. ... soturnfromthis tax. Thus, in the years to come, the nation's resources could be picked up by a large sum of money. Sets the memory of the material so that a marine eco-efficiency minister will have to submit its bill. The minority points out that resource resources are produced by resource resources in many parts of the country and that close to society often need to make sacrifices and take costs for innovation, development, and economics in individual resources. So the smaller parts are likely and normal to ensure that parts of the resource will flow to these communities, especially to the development of infrastructure and diversity of job life. So the minority agrees with the views presented to the Committee that no special stock needs to be set up and suggests that at least half of the pay due to remuneration will fit into a special department of rural society that cares for the exchange of income. By doing this, an expensive cover - up will be avoided, and thus more of the funding will flow directly to the countryside. The smaller portion suggests that the mobilization of rural society in III should be extended more closely. section on sectoral income, No. 4/1995, as well as in the regulations set out by the secretary of transportation and rural management, with the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister and the Union of Iceland. The smaller item suggests an adjustment in line with this. Under the heading Friðbjörg Frifjörg of Elíasdóttir's daughter and Jón Þór Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u29	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I admit I didn't get the opinion of the smaller part, but what I'm wondering is the key difference between the impact of the smaller section and the greater part of the fish farm fund and the balance fund. I understand the thought of the lesser part, that the money will go to the balance fund, and be distributed from there, but count its course. Don't a senator worry that in the motions of most of the object, there is no comment on how this fish farm fund should operate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u30	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a price on fish farms and fish farms. Two estimates are available, and I'd like to account for the reason that I support the opinion of the greater part. In fact, we do this by two middle-class members, the one standing here, and why. paritaprevir The late May 17th, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, who served as a deputy of this case. There are two main reasons, on the one hand, that, in view of the fact that this is a young industry but the future of which, if rightfully thought to the case, will be paid in moderation, as it is said, in the first place, to allow MAHs to have room to develop their work and build up their business. This is an important point. I would like to underline that this article can be important, not just for the communities where it is practiced, for the employment and revenues of those employed in it and those with whom it is linked in various ways. Of course, these companies will do their part in making money for the money and all that, but it is shown that such activities as you can see, i.e. that this article, hopefully in a sustainable way, can provide much for the community in this respect. We've already discussed a link to a bill that puts high emphasis on making an effort to ensure that the function is fully in line with nature's protection requirements and does not need to be repeated. The second main point that leads to my support of the greater portion is that the greater part is considered to be important, by permission of a president, that the wage for fish farming in the sea is always a fair and grammatic basis for which environmental factors and equilibrium between state and rural society are considered. It shows a very important point, Madam President, that in the present year, a white book on fish farming is expected in Norway. Go on, with President's permission: It is expected that it will provide useful information and normal for a full reimbursement in the country. The majority also feel that with the revision, the remuneration arrangement in the Faeroe Islands will be considered appropriate. It is natural, Madam President, to look at the experience of neighboring nations in this regard. Norway produces more than a million tons, probably about 1,100,000 tons, and Faeroes have very significant functions in this field. When we get what we need. The committee set the stage and went to Norway to study fish farms where most of our questions related to the currency were answered by means of evidence that there was a great review and observation. It is this white book, so it is appropriate to see it when it comes and learn from it. The opinion of the greater part is stated, by permission of the President: The ◯ The more part highlights that the revision will specifically be carried out to make a powerful economic conclusion - as it is called - ◯ encouraging environmental production and to view the switch between state and rural society, while at the same time ensuring that the currency is under needed supervision. - I'm stressing that it is. - Then you will have to look to the total share of all the remunerations presented on this article, how they will affect the development of your original life, and when it is right to be fully valid. Sets the extra item to re-evaluate the arrangements for reimbursement to be completed on January 1, 2021. It's set in time. Based on the publication of the White Book this year, the next year is in weigh this matter and considering that this review will be completed before the completion of this terms. Madam President. With the areas intended for fish farming, there is a special provision for the distribution of a limited resource. It is normal that payment will be provided for the use of such a resource. It is quite simply with this matter that there is no subject to such a point, let me say, in order to state exactly how to pay such a price while the unfinished assessment is made in Norway and is based on the great experience of the Norwegians in these materials. I would like to present two or three points in this committee, and I believe they have meaning. It says: It was noted that in reimbursement it was necessary to stimulate the business of the Marketing Authorisation Holder to pursue environmental production. It is, in effect, very easy to understand that it is a natural factor to consider activities that affect various aspects of their environment, financial incentives are built into the law, allowing companies to choose every option that environmentally sustains them. Great hopes are held that there will be technological advances in the coming years so that a closed heifer can be used to a greater degree than it is now possible to use. Of course, where there are circumstances, it is best if these activities exist. It is good and essential that these financial motivations be built in. This is being done in a clear way in the law we are considering here. Also, there is the criticism that was heard at the scene. The employment committee, that too low the rate of a planned price would flow to the rural community. Of course, these subjects always have opinions. Similarly, a critical arrangement was distributed from the planned fish fund. This was discussed in detail and in the opinion of the greater part, without saying too much of the intention of remuneration, is for use by non-impliatory waters, as sea installations are lying on the sea zone outside the area of the rural society. Thus, rural communities are not removed from rights, nor are they prevented from their independence. Of course, as most parts do, it is only natural to accept the view that corporations will have to be allowed to share the income that is created, which is expected in the bill as follows: The more part points out that the role of a fish farm is to strengthen the structure of wood in which fish farming is practiced. This aim is to strengthen the support of rural employment and to help build up society. As shown by the majority, fish farming is still building up at an early stage as a industry. It must be provided with support at the same time, but, as mentioned in the opinion, the majority of the items are more valuable than having a special fish farm holding on the income that depends on the applications. With the permission of a president, I will continue to refer to an opinion that says: ▪ In this way, there will be equality during the collection and a clear view of the sector, and the need for structure can be determined. Madam President. It's a review of the case. I wanted to use this opportunity to explain my position in these matters. Of course, that might be longer than at present, I will be balanced in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u31	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about a bill for a price on fish farms and fish farms. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but it was mentioned in the previous talk. A senator, Ólafur's Ísleifsson, said that he was on this committee party as well as an assistant who would then represent the one who stands here, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, so I'm not on the committee, but still backs up. As shown in the history of a dog. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér is paid in step. This will be moderate initially and take into account the circumstances. The fish fire is a young industry where justice must be maintained and the fact that the branches and businesses are in a position to pay a price. This is very good and -
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u32	President wants to know why. Yeah. A senator whether he would be willing to interrupt his speech. In view of a predetermined agreement, why? A senator is still on the rosary in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u33	Yeah, I'm sure you are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u35	If I remember what I was going to say. It's no big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the employment committee's work programme on the control of macroil fish. The bill suggests that the catcher management will be adopted in macroil and that, according to the experience of 2008-◯2018, including both years, until now, the control of the stock has lacquered the directives of marine eco-efficiency and licenses from Fishing Offices set for one year at the same time. The bill's even. Presidential Court hearings from December 6, 2018, as detailed in the report with the bill. Some criticisms were made to the arrangement suggested in the bill, mainly because of the different positions set out by fishing instruments and a great difference in the experience of smaller and larger types that apply in the new arrangement. For the Committee it came to the conclusion that the bill would not provide sufficient failure to judge the Supreme Court and that smaller boats would be strongly inclined and those initiatived to mackerel, it would be unfair for those who had taken the road not to enjoy it but to have established rules that would reward those who would follow. For the committee, there were some suggestions to correct the angle between smaller and larger designs. The majority of them consider it important to establish one clear and predictable system that takes into account the role of multiplicity, both in fishing and in the implementation of macroil, whether on the coasts of the country or on the oceans. It is necessary to ensure that the legal structure will ensure the best equality and different structural patterns as well as the operating grounds for those boats who have caught macroil by line and hand within the same system. So suggest that ships catching mackerel will be divided into two groups, a-group within ships that are fishing with instruments other than handhands and lines, and a group of B ships that catch by hand and line. Then the majority suggest a change in fish - control law, No. 116/2006, the addition of the law to a new article, Article 10. b, which calls for the minister of counselling every year 4,000 trains of mackerel to ships of Class B, ships that are mackerel fishing by line and by hand. After September 15, the arrangements for the remainder of the class of A are allowed. Each ship has access to as many as 35 mackerel trains at a price that at any given time receives the same amount of money as that of a mackerel. The Minister must implement a further Regulation on the implementation of the procedure. The majority stress that the distribution in any other way than the above is to be in line with the distribution in Regulation No. 762/2018. As a result, the traditional catch-up market will not be valid for macroil fishing grounds, but will depend on type A and B. The date of September 15 is based on the time of the hand-and-line fishing process and the normalness of allowing after the release of damaged trains to set up groups of Class A that use other fishing instruments. Based on the above recommendations, the switch between macrolide group A and B would be aimed at the distribution of total intensity in 2018 as shown in a table in the Committee. The percentages of A-class 5.40% and B-class 94.60%, respectively. I'm afraid there's something wrong with it. I get it so B Company has 5.40 and A Company has 94.60. In view of the above suggestions, he proposes three additional changes in the law on the two - fold - control of fishing. On the one hand, a greater proportion contributes to a change of 3mg. Section 8. The law states how to assign a market. According to the directive, the assigned catch target of the allowed total resources is determined by a disproportionate ratio of 5.3% of each species. The majority suggest that, in addition to 5.3% of the total number of macroils, from 4,000 trains designed for the mobilisation of boats who are fishing by line and by hand. Thus, the divided force in macroil will be allowed total force at a rate of 5.3% and 4,000 macroil trains, which the Minister will be allowed to take into account. The majority claim that these 4,000 macroil trains do not fall below 5 and 6 mg. Section 8. The law, and it will be reserved only in the manner laid down in Article 10. b, compare with the above. Now the senator must pause his speech, for some steam came on his glasses. Hv. A senator does not see hallucinations but does not see what he has intended to read, so I hope that a world of Congress and all the viewers will forgive why. This is for a senator. - That's a little better. It is therefore stated that in line with allowing 4,000 trains, after September 15, each year to ship A class, a minister will be allowed to transfer a reduced level of macroll in Class B to Class A after September 15, after September 15, taking into account the species modeling and transport rights between hunting periods, which should be arranged at a rate of A-class catchment. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson was absent from the case. Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus would sign in advance. Þorvaldsson Thorðdddsson was absent from the case, but he is expected to sign in advance, in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the authority given here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Friðbertsson Trausti Kristjánnsdóttir, Jón Þór Þór Þorvaldsson Þóðir, Jóðir Þótir Þótirðdótirsson, early in advance, Kolbeinn Otirsson Proppé, Njálílir Fritir Friðbertirssonsson, and Ólafur Ísleifsson, in advance. The situation was so clear that the committee reconnected before the case was given in 2nd. and sent out an extension opinion with a change in proposals from a greater part of the employment committee that I will introduce to the entire body of Congress. They sound like: ▪ The Agency has further discussed the matter and contributes to the removal of 35 train peaks from 4,000 trains so that a minister will be free to decide at a time's regulations for the distribution of 4,000 tons that must be granted special interest in fishing ships. The majority of the data show that there has been a great deal of experience in such distribution, and thus there is no need to set a specific law against it, assuming that it will be carried out in a comparable way as it has been done. The majority of it thinks it is right to be taken from B-class disposition to Class A, and therefore contributes to the change of the product. The majority also suggest that a minister be authorized to aim at a time point other than September 15 in this respect in order to deal with each situation (fishing). It can refer to past and present. The majority suggest that the case should be agreed with the changes specified in the document. I refer to this document as part of the changes proposed to be made in relation to the material that was read above. The same is true of the changes made earlier and followed by the nominees previously introduced here, I refer to the changes in the material proposals that have been made to the members of a committee study on the part of a storyteller. As a result, I would like to discuss just what changes in the situation I consider important. I spoke initially that I couldn't quite agree with the case the way it was before, and I got the understanding that more people thought that we needed to meet the preparations that have caught a mackerel in hand and line and also to defend that by this intervention we don't take the risk of being handed out from the system that is a fishing tool with a line and a hand hand hand to these largest types and that men were in front of the country one day that there was no longer any chance that there would be any resources left for lines and handboats, that it would be delivered from them, and that the system would have had no authority to catch a line, and so far beyond the topline of the country that this could not be the greatest possible option and that we would lose them with much value. That is why the warrants were considered to be up - to - date. A class of Bs that have handles and lines can land boats that are now in the hook-point system but also boats that are in the fishing system if they use these fishing instruments. And Class A is the largest in the ocean fishing for mackerel. I don't think there was much dissatisfaction with the authorities involved in a reference year, especially those who started fishing later, not until 2012 or 2013. Other ocean - fishing pioneers started much earlier, 2007 or 2008. Those who started this much later would not receive a standard that would be based on their actual fishing experience. It was considered how it could be moved, but it seemed reasonable for everyone to be seated at the same level as the reference period to choose 10 of the best 11 years. The majority of the committee stressed, receiving support from others, that the boats who were fishing by line and by hand were made a powerful pot that could be rented out. The bill doesn't have a pot like that. It has already been the way it has been done over the years, and it has now reached a 4,000 - ton pot that these parties can rent if they want to improve in terms of the resources they receive in this capacity. They rent them out of that pot at the price of the hunting fees of a mackerel every once in a while. So that men do not burn in on that source, they can have it distributed to them when hunting ends in lines and by hand, in case it doesn't run out of this pot and for a price. The same is true of the year's raise targets, if it doesn't work out, they can rent it to them when line fishing is completed on the shores of the country. Still, it is still offered that between these two systems, which are actually firewalls for the expansive hall, that can't be handed up into the big system from lines and handles, people within the year can have a kind of move and, if most of them want to switch, take to themselves a mackerel. They in the other system, the B system, can replace with some of the four species of bullfish available, cod, ax, a cast, or a catfish. Over the years, they've divided this into a species transfer, and it's going to continue which I think is very positive. In fact, we are supporting the continuing of a powerful mackerel construction on the shores of the country by banning exposition from that system to the big. There's an endless debate over how this is going to work. This has been taken into account over the years by law, not by law. It has been several years since the mackerel hit the shores of the country. At first, it may not have been entirely clear whether this strain would be here or not, and we can expect it, even though I'm not predicting it, that the mackerel will be removed from our jurisdiction and we will have no control over it. The fishing workers, of course, were pioneers in gaining our rights, but so far no treaties have been reached between the nations that have been on this hunt, Norway, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and Iceland. We haven't reached any contracts between us in terms of the exchange of total resources. It's just decided by our government what it's going to be every time. Now it reminds me it's 132,000 tons. We hope that the mackerel will remain fishable in our weekend. It may well be said that none of those who now become sharers have had to pay for the mackerel. It is only natural that humans now pay for fishing fees and that it is not the default thing to get sources to sell them permanently to the largest and gradually eliminate these sources from the subcontinent system. For that, I believe we've made some changes in this matter. I hope that the bill will be approved as soon as the mackerel is about to become catchy of the country. The CHAPTER has the Supreme Court that the legislation must govern these issues by law, not by regulations. There's nothing to wait for. No doubt, not all agree, but it is with this in life as it is with many other factors that one must reach some conclusion contrary to the viewpoint and class. I think there have been at least some encounters. As a senator of the left greens, I have given much thought to supporting the diversity of compositions and support of small and medium-sized structures that have certainly competed with the largest source of resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u37	Madam President. The European Court of Human Rights has concluded that an article of the European Convention has been violated in the Al Thani case, so called because the Supreme Court Court Court's Aure Kolbeinsson was unable to judge the matter of family ties, while his son Sir Kolbeinn Árnason was a member of the Coral Council before collapse and before the Bank Committee after collapse. Following two of Iceland's Supreme Court hearings from December 6, 2018, the highest decision was made. A marine and agricultural minister is to provide a bill for the cooling of macroils to which we speak. Interpretations judged, including Kolbeinsson Árni, a former high court judge, was assigned specifically to judge the case. Sir Kolbeinn, son of the Árni, was the executive director of LIVU, later a fishing organization, from 2013 to 2016. I want to ask you why. A senator sees it appropriate to accept a bill based on a court order in which one of the Supreme Court judge may be incompetent. Is it not true that the matter is considered? Have you in the parties following the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights examined whether the government should not ask for the rejuvening of the judgment because of the potential incompetentness of the Árni of Kolbeinsson because of the Son's interest in repairs that are being ordered on the basis of the judgment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Aside from the possible incapitability of a judge in the case referred to in this bill, the court did not place a financial judgment against a minister or the legislator on how to divulge a mackerel or this surging species. It was not the judgment's conclusion that it was referred to, but that it should be based on law, not on law. As a result, a team was appointed to point out some ways that could be taken. In the end, however, it is the lawgiver each time who decides how fishing is distributed. It's the Lawgiver. I hope so. A senator will agree with me on that. We can debate it, if we're going to change the current fishing system, how much time it would take to be moderate and look at how long a system has been with the people, but the legislatator can, as such, decide by the law how he employs our resources in the country. So I think we have solid ground underneath our feet. We're putting songs that have certainly been expounded by the various lawyers. I don't think that anything relevant to the possibility of incompetentness on this issue would prevent the lawgiver, from seeing from this conclusion, from deciding on the basis of law rather than regulations as so far as it has been. By law, land shall be inhabited.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u39	Madam President. I appreciate that answer. But if I've understood my speech, then what do you mean? Just a few minutes ago, a senator mentioned why. A senator of those very Supreme Court cases, and the rest of them were the highest. The marine and agricultural ministers provide a bill that, in fact, was a major concern for large production. A professional health committee has made changes. I want to ask you why. A senator whether they in the federal part of the government were wondering about that position - because the state won the case in a district court, that is the Supreme Court that turns the decision around - whether one of the judges is incompetent because of family ties and, in view of the fact that the Court of Human Rights has judged in a very similar way. Did I get it right that the government department didn't really consider that there could be a pot broken? Now it may be all right, but the top management thing will have to, at least, after this speech of mine here, to consider whether or not there was something going on there that could come with the government on behalf of the people of the resource, that there is an issue that the government is working on and that doesn't have to deal with e.g. fines and high sums of money for the judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think it's two cousins' business. We know that as a law on the control of fishing, the fishing industry is under way based on the last six years, looking for find experience there, but in the last three years about other fishing. But it's not a matter of business, and I don't think it's normal for the government to drive the country by law. We're gonna go for a second. Surely a senator would agree on that. Although this case has been presented as a bill in the wake of this Supreme Court decision, it is not the only reason. Everyone knows that it is not normal to be in charge of fish fishing and the distribution of sources by law. That's not normal. Perhaps more members of the council should have called attention to this, and I'm referring to this. A senator might have referred to it some years ago and brought it up to his attention, and I, and all of us, should have been aware of it. It is good, though, that this legal bill is now being done. Although the judge may not qualify, it does not affect the decision of the Generals to govern the distribution of resources into macroils by law. That's what I think I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u41	Madam President. I recommend a board of committees with a change in proposal from a small part of the job board. The majority of the majority of the employment committees agree with the viewpoint of the majority. On the other hand, the smaller portion feels right that a part of the income for the use of the nation's common resource will flow right into the state fund. Therefore, the memory item suggests that one third of macronicotans will be offered according to a procedure established by the minister in the Regulation. The minority stresss that we look upon a minister for the Executing experience on the macrotics, but their arrangements have been successful. Approximately two thirds of macronicotans take place according to the guidelines of the majority of the moiety. At the same time, the smaller portion suggests that half of the revenues made at the auction flow to the Slurpee Fund of rural society that cares for the exchange of incomes. It is evident that in recent years, laws and technological advances have led to a high economic economy in the seas, with a reduced number of jobs and disturbances in marine populations. In many rural areas, fishing is the basis for the community and is involved in the revenues made at auctions, there is the possibility of supporting the development of infrastructure and sectoral development as well as the growth of work, both in the secondary branches of the marine field and in other areas. The source of the water is one of the main reasons why all the land is inhabited. In many countries, many of the high costs of the operation that results in other services to the population paying for that cost are difficult to reject. The service of the rejects to the development is a basis for the operation that provides both a resource to the state and to the development. Therefore, it is reasonable that rural communities who live under that business will be allowed to share in it. Sets the memory of the bill to be approved by the following changes to the Council Report 165: ▪ We're talking 1st. to add three new paragraphs, as follows: A fish room can assign two-thirds of the allowed total volume to each 2 mg. The minister should provide a third part of the permissible total volume according to Article 1 and 2. The secretary must set up additional regulations on the implementation of the decree in accordance with local regulations. Taken by the invitation at the time. 4. mg, except for fees, shall run into the state's funds. The secretary shall decide on the basis of budgetary funds to the special division of the rural community at least Two percent of the budget on income from the bid. The special department handles the exchange of income between rural partners. Under this heading, the paper writes why. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Sufjörg Elisdóttir
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u42	A respectable president. I'm just going to have a few words on the bill and the proposed changes here. It has to be as difficult as it is for a job committee to say as it is for me to get a case that has been as difficult as it has been since my arrival on the 2013 committee. In fact, the basis of a person's mind and heart was open when he was discussing these matters, both the pioneers who started the fishing in their time, put ships and fishing instruments underneath, and were actually the perfect pioneers at these fishing in Iceland, and then those who later came into the fishing industry and had to make sure that the reference years were far more than they had ever been hunting, as in most small boats. It is also very difficult to swallow, for many of those who worked by the rules of hunting in Icelandic land weekends that rented on labour warrants and had rented resources in macroils during the period ran away from sources and in their pockets of authority. This, of course, is not in accordance with the rules of hunting in Icelandic waters. I say, however, this conclusion here, although it is likely to be a huge challenge to all who engage in mackerel fishing, even unacceptable, is that after trying so many ways to be as righteous as possible as possible by the committee. We had a real problem listening to the finest lawyers in the nation come before the committee and speak the big business that would normally go right, and just as caring for the interests of the smaller ones, and we felt that we had their rights. Everybody had their rights. Hence, the majority of the committee's views became determined as presented here. But I still wanted to say those words, just so that we at the council and those who listened to us realized that we had a huge problem. Then there's a couple of adjustments that come with this bill that the greater part puts forward, and I support my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u43	V.E.G. President. I come here running after we are in the position of government, which I call responsible government opposition, an agreement with the government on the end of the council. If so, often this is the case. They get less attention. Perhaps in today's wave of waves, large and large issues have not received proper attention. Because it's a prince thing. The thing we're discussing, changes in the fishery law outside of Iceland's jurisdiction, i.e. ...fishing in macroil, it's a huge deal. This is a princely affair that we would have needed much more time to cover and discuss. Because it's not only being placed in the place of the non-time distribution of the panorama in macroil - it's actually doing the same thing now with the macroil and in the large fishing system, it's not being timed by the harvest share departments, it's actually going into a system we've been having many very disagreeing with, how m.a. it is also worth no less than the fact that it is becoming a turning point in ideologies, politics, and policy of certain categories, deep - seated parties at the council. They're connected to the natural government. It is hard to see that the approach of the resource committee at its time, in the year 2000, is a very clear line that groups agree to stand, including. in the context of temporary negotiations. Everyone has known, and it's been difficult to transport the Independence Party on this ship. He was one group such a bit against it - and nothing at all in return - two years ago discussing temporary agreements. All other classes were ready in some way, especially the forward movement party, and perhaps two or three years ago, presented a very interesting bill that approached this temporary agreement. In fact, temporary agreements and other forms of payment were presented. All right. We can also discuss this. There's a very big deal about how to get paid. You want to go market route, auction route, or go through the income tax or the tax system? That's what we're talking about. But the most important thing about this is that we make a prince's decision about temporary agreements. Why do I say that? Is this some kind of technical issue? No. This underscores the fact that the nation has a fishing resource. That fishing the resources, our sea resources, which are in the ocean around Iceland, is a country shared. What is this bill now about changes in macroil to do other than distance them from vision, ideologies, vision, and policy? It seems to me that the left green is actually disappearing completely from this one of the biggest princes and fundamentals of Icelandic politics over the last two decades. It hurts and it hurts, and this has to protest and attract attention. Because it's being yielding. Why couldn't the mackerel be taken out? Of course, it was in its time that the left was green. The union could do nothing, the then marine outpost minister could change it, temporarily taking the mackerel into this system, i.e. Seek market solutions, travel the auction route, and then the other, to make temporary negotiations. This was not done at the time, but we have the opportunity now. The opportunity now is to use a relatively new species within the landway to take a different route than has taken the cod line. Why on earth is it not new? There is now the Supreme Court that should be followed. Yes, it does, but the Supreme Court doesn't take power from Congress to set the box around how we organize our fishing system and our return. I point out that it is surprising and surprising that the left man should continue to allow the matter to be so. In other words, they say: We will no longer emphasize temporary agreements. It is no longer to emphasize that the fishing resource is the national share. There's a chance to go that way. On the other hand, it is being inserted into the system that is very controversial when it comes to princely affairs: who are the fish in the sea and how we act in return. That's why we bring in this adjustment. We highlight that it will be from year to year - it says here 2019, it can be done in the fall. In that case, the Fish Room should divide a total volume of macroil into 20 equal parts. So we're suggesting that there be a 20-year deal. It's a modest time. Some have spoken about 25 years. I'm ready to discuss it. There has to be a firm view of the target, and we're moving the design to 20 years, beyond the same date. ...and I'm especially glad that the government has seen the light there and is making temporary agreements on access to the nation's common resource, the common sea area of the nation. In the fishery, temporary negotiations are being made up for 16 years. 16 years in the fish fire is considered an appropriate time for fish farming companies in terms of forethought. But in the mackerel, it's far away. That's why we're trying to get the right course of the government, the government of the left movement, and we don't go that way. Don't get dragged in there, advance party and left green. I'm asking you to give it a lot of thought. Hence, we suggest that a mackerel, in effect, be distributed to 20 equal items each year. In 2020, the Fish Room should then be offered for sale at the auction market to 20 years 5% of total resources in macroil. So it's 5% every year for 20 years. The first contract is for one year, another contract for two years, so the overall contract for making it up to 20 years is always offered 5% a year. Besides, the suggestion means that the little boats - and we have to take care of them, especially need to pay attention to them, and to admit them specifically and try to go that way because I think of them this way: OK, can we join together that this will all be an experiment? Test project for some year, including To go this way? And then, of course, we take into account the small boats that receive 5% of the recovery department that become ear-marked miniboats and only they can offer 5% shares and they can't move between boats after they have given a share on the basis of auction. So this suggestion is to take into consideration the small boats and to emphasize primarily that the distribution of the fiscal sector should be temporary, not premature. I will not be tired of underlining that, as men have been talking about, that at first sight this bill of the government might be quite innocent, as it has been pointed out, this is a remarkable bill for their part because it is a corrosive for the left green, roundabout for the forward party. When it comes to the distribution of mackerel, injustice is being promoted. Why don't we take advantage of this opportunity and make a 20-year deal? We set up 5% every year on the market and set out 5% for the small boats as well. This is a simple suggestion we make here, and we want to be taken on it. I am amazed that opposition from the left green now is taking advantage of every opportunity we get to secure national property on the resource. I've been on the board of directors with other presidents, and there's a list of resources that we're going to go to the Constitution. I would have liked to see within the arrangement itself a clear report on the need for temporary intervention, not allowing some timeless distribution. It is certainly stated in a paper entitled The Constitution, or subtracting to the Constitution, and it is especially worthy of highlighting it to include. The head of the advance party has agreed that there will be a temporary source of authority. That's why I'm asking, "Why on earth are we not using this opportunity to secure the national property of resources? " Why are we taking this step so that it will be difficult for us to turn it into something that I believe other than that the majority of the people want to become? That it will be emphasized that it is the covenant of the people, not everything else - and all of this is that it will be solely owned. I'm not going to participate in the fact that when we're discussing this, people will come and say, "You're in front of the fishing system. No, I've emphasized many times. Especially now is it natural for us to think about the fact that the cod population size of cod has not been stronger for years, when Frodo's council was introduced earlier today. But it is natural to think about other species that we need to cross. The fishing system has also provided a tremendous contribution to economic, economic, and value development and to all council groups, left and right groups, have helped to make the system as efficient as it is. But there's always that big, heavy bang, and it's how to pay for the resource. We learned that earlier in the winter, the government pressured against a huge drop in fishing costs on the project, up to billions of dollars. Today, we face the fact that at the same time it was designed to cut, including the cut. in the welfare system. I don't think there's any connection between that, and I don't think we'll ever be able to finish this political discussion about whether we're going to have a lie and a desire to really make sure that the fish resources are shared. One chance after another is to slip away. Let's just keep that in mind. It's not something light. That's why I wonder once again that the left green just let it flow through and let the Independence Party control it. It's incredibly sad and sad to experience it. That is why I emphasize that we present our proposal for restoration and are consistent with ourselves. We believe that this needs to be done for the nation's interests, temporary agreements with builders. We are more than ready to make them up to 20 years, even 25 years of age, of the presupervisability of the industry as such. Of course we understand. And then we can naturally reason on what payment or means to go. We are still convinced of and have not changed our view that we trust the market to do so. We're supposed to put this on the market. It is quite remarkable that a group that once claimed to be a market anxiety party could not agree with that. Because it is not convenient for their friends to take the market trip. We are convinced that when the market is difficult, it is simply less urban. When there is a demand for fish and stock markets, more will be paid. So the nation will naturally get a share in a common fishing resource. This will not only depend on who's in the government at any time, who hits the table once and gets his way, but who becomes both transparent and normal, and probably who gets a share in the common resource that catches the resource. So this is where we're looking for a temporary agreement, a marketing plan. We are suggesting that small boats be taken into consideration. This is something that a man should be able to say. This change of thinking is a sin that such an important matter, as I mentioned earlier, should float through the council during the last days, for we do not have a better report and control during the council, but it is evident when it comes to setting down important matters. That's the way it is now. During our restoration, this matter will continue to be observed. We feel that the right and share of the nation need to be guaranteed when it comes to the control of the resource. We are proud of our fishing system, but it needs to be fixed in certain places. Increasing justice must be introduced into the fishing government so that the nation can be at peace with it, not just for a short time, but for an extended period of time. It leads to success for all, for deforestation, for society and for the nation as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u44	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees to legalize the changing of various laws as a result of the termination of the Board of Elders, No. 130/2016. This is a case of No. 413. The bill set up a changed arrangement to determine the pay of those who fell under the jurisdiction of the CREEP Council, which was canceled by law No. 60/2018. However, it is suggested that the pay of the terms of the national elections and of judges, prosecutors, Ministers, Ministry, State Status, Bankers, and bank managers will be determined by a fixed capital level and then reordered on July 1 each year. The arrangement proposed in the bill prevents the pay from being paid by the highest officials or elected representatives leading to the development of pay. Instead, pay changes in proportion to the development of the average regular pay of the state next year. This will help to overcome the mismanagement that may develop during pay periods. Since the pay of the criteria will be reviewed annually according to the above criteria, there will also be increased transparency and awareness of the salary. The majority of the Economic and Business Committees feel that it is necessary to make several adjustments to the bill and are primarily in line with the labour market tip and other bodies. As indicated in the opinion of the committee, there were a considerable number of reports of interest stakeholders and were taken into account. The adjustment, however, is in a special Senate document, namely. 1552. It is proper and obliged to review the adjustments briefly, but in other respects, I refer to the committee's opinion. First, the majority suggest that the pay of state officials and high officials will not be changed until January 1, 2020, and then according to the development of an average of regular pay of Kingdom workers in 2018. Starting on July 1, 2021, the pay of these bodies will change every 1st of July, as recommended in the bill. However, this does not apply to the pay of the judges and to those taking the charge, but their salary should be changed immediately on July 1, 2018, and annually thereafter as expected in the bill. Second, it is proper to draw attention to the fact that the more part contributes to changing the bill to a remuneration program, which would recommend the value of a sheriff's salary, as well as to other accusers listed in the 1st issue. 18th par. the treatment of criminal cases. The majority stress that when making a decision by a judge and a governor of the prosecution, they must take care of their unique position and ensure that they are employed and that they are independent of the other branches of the state. Third, the majority suggest a change in various aspects of the bill that a minister's license to determine that pay will increase in proportion to 1 January according to the estimated change in the average of regular wages. It will be reported that pay should only be changed on July 1 each year in accordance with the relative change in the average average of regular staff pay over the next year according to the Office's calculations. By doing so, the majority prefer to prevent the pay of government officials and high officials from raising twice a year, while ensuring that the increase in pay is only due to the confirmation of the Habitat's calculations, not plans. Fourth, the majority contributes to a change of 3 mg. provision for temporary implementation in the bill for the benefit of priests and other representatives of the Congregation of the 60th chapter. legalized the status, administration, and practices of the National Church. It states that the pay of these bodies should not be changed until it is concluded with the National Church on the changed donations made by the State. However, such agreements have fallen into force. As a result, the greater part suggests, having agreed with the Ministry, that the pay of these parties who made the last changes in the decision of the Council of Elders since December 17, 2017, will change every 1st of July, according to the same procedure as any other salary laid down in the bill until a new agreement between state and church has been reached. It should be noted, however, that the Commission received indications that there is a basis for making adjustments in the terms of the terms and costs of Congress and the European Commission's legislation to explain fully a division between the Council and the Council when it comes to paying expenses for the travel expenses of the Minister's Committee, and I refer them to the Commission's opinion. In addition, the more part contributes to a change to the 9th sector. The bill, in addition to the decision of the U.S. council on pay and the requisition of the district attorney, the district attorney and the district attorney's attorney's office, which was ordered by letter 19, 2018, was not clear when the bill was agreed. The book states the decision of the Council on pay and the employment of the prosecutor at the local district attorney's office, which also directs the platform or office. Sets the extra portion to add the amount of pay that was set at 1st. Count 9. The bill. Other changes, max. A president who suggests that most parts are technical and are not meant to have material influence. Under the heading of this magazine, which stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. The members of Hanna Katrín the Friðriksson of Friðrk, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór the son of Gunnarsson, Sigríður Á. Andersen, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurzóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u45	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Commission on billing on Iceland's Federal Bank and bill for changing the law on various laws due to the Union's Federal Bank and the SEC's Coalition. The first projections suggest that Iceland's Council and the SEC will be united in one institution, but that there will be no change in the activities responsible for these two institutions in common by the current legislation. In particular, the changes led to the integration of tasks in one institution and to the change in management order and arrangements of decision making. Our objective is to include: to enhance the clarity of responsibilities and to improve management and effectiveness in decision-making and the use of information, thereby increasing the possibility of increased quality of analysis and perspective. Mr. President. I'm not going to read from a word to the word available committee opinion, which is quite thorough, but I would like to point out that the unity of the Federal Bank and the SEC must be considered as a logical step in the development of the country during the past decade and an important step in achieving an increase in financial stability that is one of the cornerstones of long - term economic stability. As shown by a bill to the Council of Iceland, both national and foreign experts have suggested that the Council and the SEC be united, taking the lead in promoting financial stability, but in different ways. The detailed proposals of a staff on the reevaluation of the money policy presented in June 2018 show that there is a need to define one responsible for the application of national espionage and maintenance of financial stability. Strict development must help achieve better coordination during the use of national eco-efficiency and traditional money policies. This will require limited human use in the most practical way in the collection and analysis of information. The Union of the Federal Bank and the SEC includes the fact that all national economists, as well as subversives, will be responsible for the custody of a united agency. By uniting all special precautions in one organisation, the process from diagnosis to decision more effectively. The analysis, decision, and responsibility will be complete in the Sensitive Bank, which will be supported by more extensive and extensive diagnostic work than before. With these changes, they are adjusted for serious defects, which may result in the fact that two institutions have a view and responsibility for financial stability. The Court's review of the bills says that change solves the problem that brought harm to the nation in the financial crisis that the latecomer, the borrower, did not have enough insight into the position of the individual systematicly important banks. The main criticism of the union between the United States Office and the FDA is that of a business agency. In reviews, including. Business unions, Copenhagen and Business Council, point out that it is more reasonable to say that trade control is not within the U.S. Federal Bank but, rather, by an independent agency. This opinion harmonizes with the suggestions offered by the workgroup on the reevaluation of the money policy, i.e. that business management would remain with independent financial watch but that national eco-efficiency and isolation would be the responsibility of the Federal Bank to secure financial stability. There is strong evidence that business management should be in the hands of an independent Rapporteur and not at the National Bank. However, there is evidence that it is reasonable and practical to go according to the initials discussed here. It cannot be overlooked that national economists, economists, and economics are linked in one way or another, although the difference is necessary. National economist means monitoring the stability of the financial market as a whole and as a rule, including orderliness. develop concomitant monitoring. Guardy is turning toward a regular work on and monitoring the safety and strength of the individual financial organisations. Business control is including Monitoring that companies work in accordance with normal, healthy business practices and practices, and that has to do with security monitoring of financial markets in many areas. As a result, commodities and business care are closely linked, with the primary objective of protecting consumers of financial services. In view of this and the smallness of the Icelandic financial system, with a systematicly important financial enterprise, the greater part believes that by integrating business practices and subsidiary, it is necessary to overlook the best degree of loyalty and the use of caution to strengthen financial stability. Thus, it cannot be overlooked that by means of a clean business check from other factors, there is a rather weak monitor. In addition to providing specialised information in this area, it may be advisable to distribute expertise in this country as well as to have certain additive effects of safety surveillance and business management within the same institution. The aim of a united organisation will be threefold: The decision must be made to promote steady prices, financial stability, and a stable and secure financial market. The institutional structure of the combined organisation will reflect these three main objectives as it will be prepared for transparency and distribution of power. A bank manager controls and is responsible for the bank's operations and operations. Three senior bank managers lead the bank's business; money policy, financial status, and financial security. The majority of these points to the importance of a clear organization, structure, and responsibility when it comes to the application of the management systems of the Federal Bank. The bill suggests that the best decisions will be adopted by three committees; a financial conference; a financial committee; and a financial committee. According to the bill, all the committees will be multi-organized and have external experts in them all. It provides support and helps to promote more viewpoints as they are heard in decision making. However, I refer to the activities of the money policy committee, the financial Commission and the FESECs to the Committee, I don't think it's a reason to read it up here. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that with a discussion on the committee, it was reasonable to conclude that it would be a deliberate attempt to increase transparency in the activities of the committee. Therefore, the more part suggests some changes, including The change that both financial and financial standards committees should report to the General Report every year to a committee decided by the president or prime committee of the Council. In this case, it is assumed that there is a why. The financial and business committee as much as the money policy committee has done and will do more often, i.e. twice a year. The changes are also suggested that the external experts appointed in the committee should appear before the members of the Parliament to introduce themselves and their main policies or views on the solutions of the currently visible projects. 58th and 61th. The bill to compromise the law of various legislations due to the cohesion of the Federal Bank and the SEC is proposed to change the law on home loans to consumers, and on currency laws. On one hand, it is the National Bank warrant for setting up a maximum share rate, total financial values, and payment of mortgages to consumers, and loans related to foreign currency to non-employed currency stakeholders. In both cases, such decisions need to be based on the previous approval of the financing committee and the confirmation of a minister. The majority agree with points received by the Committee that it is undesirable to hide a minister's refusal over the use of national language instruments such as the 58th and 61th terms. The bill is about. The majority believe that this would result in a loss of the ability of the Federal Bank to secure financial stability and to reduce the independence and credibility of the bank, especially the financing committee. A review of the Association of Professional Life includes the following: It is suggested that a rule like this might include, for example, the following: has the potential for access to loans and decisions like these to prove very unpopular, though necessary. It is important that such a decision is not subject to political consent. The majority agree with this comment, suggesting a change of 58 and 61th. so that there will not be any confirmation of the Council of the Office on These Factors. This is, in effect, increasing the independence of the Federal Bank, promoting its independence and securing efficiency in response to national interests. According to UNECE, there is a need to prevent the possible conflict of interest due to financial control and the SEC's trade in the stock market, especially on the government trade within the Sea Bank that is responsible for the publication of government funds. The SEC will supervise the stock market and it is therefore possible that financial monitoring committees will have to make decisions about projects carried out elsewhere in the Agency and hear under the bank manager. Or it may even be necessary to make a decision on the application of an embargo because of a violation of the law on price exchange. 3 mg. Section 3. the bill to legalize Iceland's Federal Bank is, for example, the U.S. It should be noted that the bank manager as well as the backup bank managers have rules about how the bank operates. In such rules, precautions to minimise the risk of conflicting interests are expected to be specified. In spite of this, a greater part is needed to revise government funds, which will already be started at the Ministry. Six. Court of the State of Lent, No. 43/190, is authorized by a minister to negotiate with Iceland's National Bank on the implementation of loans, State Accountable and Reimbursement, as well as other projects made by the Minister according to these laws, as per the cost of being reasonably applied, as it should be. Having agreed with the Ministry suggests that the more part is involved in changing the law to a bill due to the unity of the Federal Bank and the SEC, there is an added law on the transition of 6 g. the Government's legislation, so that instead of the Bank of Iceland, it will be put in place by the competent public authorities, one or more, the project. At the same time, the more part contributes to changing the bill's value code so that this change will already be obtained. In this way, the legislation of the changed arrangements for the implementation of the government funds will be prepared so that the application of the project can be done without legal adjustments. The majority of the material indicates that according to 2 mg. 7. the law on the rights and responsibilities of the government is permitted for an employee to move between the government without being advertised for an application. To this I would like to add, Mr. President, from my own heart that I believe that there will be a need to be assured in the future when the government's loans have been revised that this is not done in the way that they will remain at the Bank of Iceland. The majority agree with the review of the UNECH's review of ensuring that financial stakeholders will be absolutely clear whether they interact with the Federal Bank each time on the basis of the official surveillance role that the bank will be assigned to or on the basis of its other roles. This has proved to be particularly important in the work of Britain's Secret Bank after its cooperation with the financial watch there in 2011. Indeed, together with the SEC, there will be a powerful surveillance agency. It gathers central power to one institution making decisions that have a major impact on individuals, businesses and financial and economic systems everything and that are often burdensome. Because of this, the decision - making process and the underlying evidence are very important. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? (b) What will be considered in the next article? (b) What will be considered in the next article? Commenting on this, the Commission's review of financial organizations points out that the development of a financial market in recent years has been in such a way that surveillance agencies have been increasingly obtained with a wide range of control and fines. It is important that each member of the management board maintains an active hold of a higher authority to ensure that the application of a surveillance warrant will bring honor to the unscheduled principles of the administration of the Court. The majority agree with financial companies that a special seminar is the best way to handle it. In addition, a hearing committee strengthens the function of the part of the new agency that has financial control. So the majority of the countries feel that it is important to consider the issues involved in a special lawsuit within the administrations following the conference treatment of the bill. The majority of them refer to the Ministry of Directors and the Ministry of Economics to appoint a group of staff members of the surveillance organisation to shape initiatives for the field and the standards of decision-making committees. At that job, there will be also Consider the assessment of the activities of the independent adjudication committees in the administration board, to which Dr. Páll Hreinsson is working, and it is planned to complete later this year according to the information of the Ministry of Presidency. How the joint organisation of the Federal Bank and the Food Administration manages to carry out its major and delicate role is largely determined by the general trust of the Agency in the community. Trust is earned, but it can be built in various ways, including with increasing transparency in decision-making, distribution of power and a clear shift between the bank committees with the presence of separate experts, routine reporting to the Council and the sharing of information. The greater part suggests that there will be a special law on the obligation of the National Bank to promote increased education and information to the public on the activities of the bank and on the interaction of money policy, financial stability, the health of the economy and the general biographies. This may be done in a variety of ways, including the bank. In cooperation with the education system. Mr. President. As I took steps earlier, the Union of the Federal Association and the SEC is a logical continuation in the developments that have taken place here in the country since the 2008 financial crisis. In the United States alone, experts have been taking advantage of reports showing comments and tips on changes that are desirable in supporting financial support and securing financial stability. All reports outside one from Kristina Forbes suggest that the SEC will be combined, either in part or in all, with Secret Bank. In October 2018, a minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and Reorganization made a decision to start a review of the legalization of money policy, national espionage, and financial monitoring. As a result, the prime minister appointed a project manager to supervise the revision and was closely consulted with the head of the Iceland and the SEC for work. The majority of them call attention to how the bill was conducted. The representatives of the Federal Bureau of Nations and the SEC were closely cooperated. The Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs presented together plans for the unity of Iceland's Central Bank and the Federal Commission in December 2018. Before the bill was fully developed, the Commission presented its information specifically to the Economic and Business Committee. At that time, publicity was held by the Management Board of Economic Affairs, the Management Board of finance companies, and the Commission of Observation Committees. The topic of the bill was presented at a joint meeting of the money policy committee and System Risk Committee and at the conference of Prime Ministers, Economic and Economic Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers with the labour market. The bills were published to the public on January 17, 2019, in a judicial manner by the government. In view of the greater part, it will be an example of how the project management and the government were in preparation, consultation, and presentation of the two primary sites involved. Mr. President. I've done a big thing about these two bills, but I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there's more to all the changes, much to which the greater part suggests and I refer to the whole committee. I have already discussed a few points, but I would like to point out that the greater part suggests that at the bill, there is a preliminary principle that within two years of the implementation of the law, a minister of the People's Council should submit a report on the experiences of the Secret Bank Committee's committees from the execution of values, including the U.S.A. taking into account the work-change between financial status committees and F.I.S.A. On the basis of that report, the General Assembly then needs to evaluate whether there is any basis for any material change in the laws that apply to them. I would be surprised if the council concluded that there was no basis for this. On the other hand, I think it would be good for the council, and especially for those on the Economic and Business Committee, and will be on the Economic and Business Committee in the coming years, to make the decision to have more contact with the financial market and with the management of money, not only within the Sensian Bank, but also outside the Sensian Bank, as well as with foreign experts than with national groups. It should be one of the main objectives of a financial and business committee, except on legal products and other Senate matters, to keep a living discussion of the management of money, financial stability, and to be ever conscious of whether there are any material reasons to make any changes that may be necessary as time goes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the fine talk he gave. I admit that this case has made me very agitated and confused. A senator did not detract from my agitation. This bill, if it's legal, should produce a 300-man administrative booth that's supposed to lead a independent life and monitor itself. I have to say, the moves scare that stuff. The power entrusted to the Sullabour Bank, and even not hidden, has not been good with the past years and years. As I understand the topic of thekraut bank's logs after looking into new laws, and as I understand this union, the financial watch is subject to custody by one of the Secret Bank helpers who is now hearing again under the bank managers. I just have to say that I can't see how necessary independence is guaranteed in this way. There have been warnings, including from Professor Gylfi Zoëgi, who is an insider in the Secret Bank, this is how one foot works. He has given great warning to this unity. So I have to ask. A member of Parliament: Is it not appropriate to stop and consider this matter better before it is sold here through the council 15 minutes before the end of the council with a limited discussion and with limited publicity? Is it not proper to stop for a moment, review the criteria presented here, and see if they meet minimal inspection? I believe this worm at best would be very critical and would like to be responded. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u47	Mr. President. I'm going to start by correcting a little bit. A senator. The late bank is not self-monitoring. With these changes, with an existing bill, and I'm not talking about by the changes that the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee was doing -- I'm thinking of a member of Congress, huh? paritaprevir Well, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, I can agree, he's not in the room, and that's why it's not good to quote him - is to create a new institution that is a powerful organization. We learned to separate in a way that we did here before the collapse of the 2008 financial system, where we lacked perspective on the overall financial system of one another. We are trying to make sure that it is done in this common way. Of course, there are strong reasons, as I turned aside, to keep the trade department outside the Secret Bank. There's evidence to hold it in, and it's stronger to my knowledge. Of course, these are committees made up of independent agents outside the Penitentiary, and it provides support. It gives the Shared Bank support when it is clearly accepted into the law that all committees, money conferences, financial status committees, and financing committees should appear before the committee of the Parliament and report their jobs regularly, at least Once a year, when the last committees are involved, the money policy committee is twice a year. What is more, when these committees are appointed by the external committees, they should also appear as independent members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u48	Mr. President. Well, I'm here with the minor opinion that the senator referred to, well. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. I think he's on the end of the row, so I can explain what he feels must be explained about his presentation and his opinion on the committee. In fact, his opinion shows that he believes that this is too fast, and he does not pause because men have received counsel with extensive knowledge and experience, and they warn. I admit, Mr. President, since the senator's job often depends very much on listening to experts, listening to their opinion, making it happen before they make decisions, I have in this case, as sometimes before, tendens to want to listen. The warnings given are, in my opinion, strong and powerful for us to consider. I give, to be honest, nothing for that although some committees, which I think now number only 70 people when all is counted in this new bank bill, appear before the Senate committee once a year. I don't think it's incredibly efficient. It's not gonna calm me either. I say again, I think we should stop because we have a chance, there's nothing that's rushing us. Since this case is so late, as it turns out, as is true, more major issues that have come into the council in the past few weeks, we should not be quick enough to handle it, not a case of this magnitude. We're not in a hurry, and we're supposed to review it further. We should listen to the warnings we are given before we stumble to do something that we will later regret.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u49	Mr. President. The bill presented here is a natural continuation of all the discussion that has taken place in society, in colleges, and in this Senate hall since 2009, and this has been published by one report after another. You're not in a hurry, are you? Senator, it's wrong to say so. What a fine example it is for the project management to negotiate the bill to a presentation and had even a consultation with the Economic and Business Committee before a formal proposal was made. What a fine example that is, and what is well done should be expressed and commended for what is done! I know, like all of you here, that time never comes, I know from my studies, that all economists in the world will agree. I don't talk about when it comes to handling money and the new financial economics that are about to develop, but new theories and ideas are developing at a tremendous rate. They will never agree. In case of a moment. A senator will wait for all the economists in the world to agree on how we're going to order work here in Iceland on the Secret Bank and the SEC and the financial status, we'll wait forever and never do anything. This is so that we need the opportunity to make decisions as best we can, to the best of knowledge, and to have gone through all the different opinions and opinions on the subject. We must bring them to conclusions and reach conclusions. If we wait for all the world's experts to decide for us and agree with us, we will never do anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u50	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a member of Committee 1 of the Economic and Business Committee. The first minor section of the Committee makes serious remarks that there was too little time to write the bill and that it is unacceptable to go to the head when building up for one of our most important and most powerful institutions. The review of the Federal Bank and the hearings of committees repeatedly stated that little time was given for the production of the bill. It takes more time to examine the changes, any problems that may arise, to analyze and meditate on each stone. Will independence be more successful in coping with future traumas? Of this, 1st is a great question, and other, safer ways are involved. The first smaller section agrees with the view that a global perspective on the risk and strengthens the monitoring of the financial sector, but it seems that on the way the management sector wants to deal with the issues is major defects that could lead to financial monitoring and mistrust in Iceland's Sensitors. The main projections suggest that Iceland's Surllabanki and the SEC will be united and that they will be fully monitored for financial activity in Iceland's Federal Bank, which further enforces money policy and contributes to financial stability. In this way, big, national, and national needs to be united by one institution and all national emissary instruments should be placed in one hand. The primary projection route is not the most discussed in recent years, i.e. to unite national economists and dictatorials in the Federal Bank while the SEC continues to maintain commercial and consumer protection in an independent institution. A smaller portion of 1st feels that reasons need much better why that route was rejected by governments, including government officials. proposed in a recent report on money policy frames. The reviews that the Commission received about the bills warn that commercial care is being subjected to an independent bank. In addition, Paul Romer's assessment, the Nobel Prize winner of economics, is that one of the key financial lessons is the importance of clear understanding between those in charge and those who have a means of ensuring financial stability. The recent years have been successful in implementing money policy, and monitoring has been strengthened. Also, cooperation and agreements between UNECE and the Federal Bank have been expanded and formalized by a contract. Information flows could be improved, without fully monitoring at the National Bank. The first minority requested information on the financial monitoring arrangements elsewhere in the North countries, Britain and Germany. According to the General's Research Service, financial monitoring is in all the states of the North in an independent organisation. In Britain, three institutions oversee financial institutions: England's banks and two sort of financing institutions that serve the PRA and FCAs. The PRA and FC are responsible for this. FCCA is an independent organisation responsible for the council and the Ministry of finance, which supervises business practices, contributes to good consumer protection, active competition, and successful financial markets. The Federal Commission of Germany is an independent agency subject to the Ministry of Economics. Germany's secret office and the F.I.A. have both bank control. The cooperation of these two institutions is required on bank control. It shows that the bank is responsible for evaluating data such as reviews and annual accounts from financial institutions as well as the implementation of field scans and evaluating their results. If there's a problem with this, they'll report it to the financier. According to the same law, the financier should provide guidelines on the continuation of bank monitoring with the approval of the bank's bank. However, the FEC is primarily responsible for the monitoring of financial institutions. The European coast has the power to supervise any bank within the euro. Iceland's secret bank is to ensure stable prices, financial stability and trust and a secure financial system. Its premise is that a measure of independence is guaranteed to the government at any time. Thus, some governments cannot interfere with the activities and decisions of the bank, such as making interest decisions. Since each political situation, the late bank must be able to work toward its goals. The independentness of the SEC is also important so that citizens of financial markets cannot interfere with the work. Then it is important that politicians not be able to influence their surveillance and allow political interests to dominate them. Therefore, it is necessary to minimize the possibility that ministers could interfere with the activities of the FDA and the Federal Bank. The decisions made by these two important strains are thus much more likely to become uninvolved. A price added to two varaban rolls in the Navy Bank is added to make it a total of three. The result will be an enormously powerful independent agency where financial market rules are put in place, control of business behaviour on the market, and financial institutions reviewed as a need for this, e.g. if business is considered to be too risky. The same agency treats the money policy, decides interest and commitment, and can affect the price of the dollar's pay and payment. It is more likely that politicians want to influence the function of such a powerful institution. That may even happen. created by politicians to put the category of political interests rather than professional evaluations in place of the counsel of government officials. Professor Gylfi Zoëga says of this in a recent article in a clue, with the permission of a president: It's been quite difficult to hire a bank manager on a professional level. Instead, the recruitment process has generally been like an almond game for Christmas, where, for example, the process has been like a Christmas party. 16 Apply, and one of the almonds that only the housewife knows where is; applications are evaluated in a way that makes the almond fit. Governments and personal contacts, the Agency is simply, even for unity, too important for political efforts to seek out the most qualified people for their jobs, although the consequences of social failures may be and sometimes have been tragic, e.g. Before the crash. This problem will become even more difficult to deal with after being reunited with UNEP. While a good day can be drawn up by a beautiful shipbook of a perfect world, reality is not usually so simple. Hence, institutions must be made in such a way that there is a low likelihood that there will be a failure in the recruitment of officers and their operation. Such decisions as the Sedendabanite will never be based on a class of political interests. Rather, independence must be guaranteed. Do not create a framework for the Agency that increases e.g. the risk of creating a series of campaign failures because of a group of political interests. Hence, bank managers must be able to use and make decisions that might be unpopular for politicians or stewards, decisions that will be of long - term interest to the public, but that will not serve the short - term interests of politicians or groups. By hiding the Secret Bank advising business practices, the bank can become involved in public disputes with companies and even political parties who want to protect the interests of that company. Such controversies in a small community will soon become personal and could at the same time damage confidence in the Federal Bank and the bank manager. The Sectle Bank's credibility must be assured, but the changes proposed by the prime projections increase the likelihood that sensitive issues will arise that threaten the credibility of the bank. The discussion of the bank's currency management last year shows how problems can arise. Commenting on this, the Commission's review of the bills says, with the permission of the president: It will never be stronger than its credibility, so much is at stake. There will also be an exceptionally powerful organization, with the cooperation of SI and FME, and it will refer to studies that highlight possible conflict of interest and that the authority of the Federal Bank has this arrangement even too much. The review of this too, says the president's permission: In some ways, business care is comparable to that of the Federal Bank on Penitentiary and has had experience with the bank on the part of the project for the application of penalties, compression procedures and police charges showing that such activities are relevant to the reputation of the bank and may have a negative impact on the other activities of the bank. In this context, foreign experts have discussed the potential for a reputation as a result of business management, but Andrew Large's 2012 report shows that the U.S. Federal Bank's action or inaction in the field of business management, if the bank is assigned to this sort of check, could harm its credibility and interfere with the success of the World Bank in other areas. The exchange of stock markets strongly opposes the fact that monitoring of the behavior of the stock market will be submitted to the Huns Bank. Even by permission of the president, the review of the Wall Street Hall tells us. Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The baneman is a stockholder at the stock market. The government's loans at the Federal Bank make trades on a market with government bonds. It is most unfortunate, therefore, that the Council Bank supervises the stock market. True, some trades by the National Bank are excluded from various laws and regulations. In addition, the harbor bank has an impact on the stock market by its actions in other areas, to form growth decisions and support in the currency markets. If something goes wrong in this operation The National Bank of Nations, e.g. failure to provide information according to law or information through leaks is unfaithful to the absence of an independent surveillance provider that can investigate such issues without conflicting interest. There must be any doubt about the ocean in such cases that the zebra does not monitor himself and its protestors. This can damage both the credibility of the stock market and the Federal Bank. At the same time, the KaIhall's review points out that other people are being criticized for the potential reputation risk of the Office for Business Affairs. In addition, a united organization will be very powerful: ▪... it is not desirable to go further in the convergence of power, if not for that rich reason. Clearly, the dangers of such compression are high. If necessary, this will call for a wide range of defenses and detailed processes to restrain power and ensure good governance and will never be as good as the spread of power. President. To address this crisis on the FESEC to make final business decisions. In terms of my 1st share, it's not enough at all. In the above - mentioned article in evidence, Gylfi Zoëgi provides an example of how the independent control can be threatened by governments. He says, with President's permission: For example, a 2008 policy by the Icelandic government is setting up an international financial center in Iceland and relaxes regulations and supports the growth of banks. The efforts of the FME to suppress this growth would then have acted against government policy. Much has been done since collapse to further the SEC and its cooperation with the Federal Bank. The agreement was signed in 2011 and was last revised in 2014. Although cooperation has been successful and greatly improved, it can be done even better. The FEC emphasizes that its surveillance is complete, i.e. that banks, insurance companies, stock companies and markets are in the same facility. Therefore, 1st smaller items suggest that in addition to the joint consultation of the National Institutes and the SEC, information collection and data development of a joint database will be implemented, as well as a computer system. A big improvement would be to take that step and provide information flows between the institutions and increase both perspectives. The conclusion of section 1 is that there is a greater need to be in the process of doing this. A clear warning and concern of a number of reports and members of the Committee are calling for a much better investigation. It would be appropriate, then, to postpone the bill and give sufficient time to do the best work. Under this opinion, write along with the one that stands here, whatever. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and Smári Mccarthy. The first smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee will submit a new proposal. We have come to understand within the committee that the greater part emphasizes that the matter is closed, and we did not bring up the question of suggesting a smaller section of recommendation for a different procedure. As a result, 1st memory has worked on changing proposals involving the role of bank councils and the role of bankers. They deal with the financing committees and the workforce of the vice presidents and when the bank manager takes it, and they have special articles about the outside assessments to be conducted every five years and at the end of the year 2022, where three independent specialists in the area of money and financial economics should make an assessment of how the Bank of Iceland has been able to meet the targets of stable prices, financial stability, and the implementation of financial monitoring. Other factors are looked forward to, as is the case in the making of adjustments, and no reading is required. Then there is a provision. In addition to what it was. The head of the Committee presented earlier would like to add in the memory of the section to make a special assessment of the safety and business management experience within the bank and the potential risk of reputation. President. I would like this matter to go to the Committee between discussions, so that changes can be considered mainly in the 1st smaller section as a security network. I have considered it in the talk where we see the dangers, and if the other part wants to accept the matter this way, despite all the warnings, it is very important to install the safety networks suggested by the first memory. We would've wanted, as I said before, that the common meeting site of the SI and FCE had been developed and a contract would have been reinforced in terms of it, and information collection and data work would be common and common databases, as well as computer systems, and paying a flow of information between the institutions of today and increasing perspectives of both, but not united. There would have been one way and would have been a step that would have reached the goal. The second best thing would have been to split up. A first step would have been that national eco-efficiency and money policy had been combined, based both on economic analysis of national terms, and creating a job of one new vice president and a national economisaries, receiving external assessments from foreign sources, and assessing the results after one year, then taking the possible second step described in IV. the Act on Economic Affairs in its own step after the results of their previous partnership have been evaluated. This is a follow-up of individual organisations, business practices, etc. That would have been a careful flight to the ground, but at the same time, efforts were made to strengthen both the SEC and the Federal Bank. At the very least, the committee needs to review the changes made by the committee, which have been placed here on paper but are not a vote because they are referred back to the committee. Then we will discuss them more with the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u51	Mr. President. Now it's pretty clear that this case is big and important. Not because it's necessarily good, but it's important because all the time since collapse, at least, has been a great effort to build up good and powerful, reliable financial regulations in Iceland. It has largely been suggested that two agencies, Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC, are strong enough to be able to take good care of themselves. This case is now because there are certain weaknesses in the current budget of a financial order in Iceland that are involved in response to national espionage, internal Affairs, and other factors, and it is seen that a better outcome can be achieved by uniting the two institutions, some say. I'm not going to track and repeat it as a dog. Harðardóttir It's from the memory of the item that I'm part of. However, I would like to enter some points that I like to highlight. The first point is that in itself, it is not entirely wrong that the money bank submits to some form of outward authority. We have a board of banking, a form of external authority, made up of the General Assembly, but it is generally a matter of restricting the authority of the bank. Actually, all the emphasis is that Iceland's Sidlabanki is an independent institution, and some have called him a state in the state, that we do not trust the political class in Iceland. Even we here at the Council do not trust ourselves, that when some reach power, they do not rush into the money system for political purposes and to serve their own interests. That terror and panic are acquired. It is something that we as political groups and political people need to take to heart and think that we are very serious about being irrefutable in our own eyes that we cannot rely on one another in order to manage money policy. That's a problem, all right. On the other hand, we need to realize that even the work and role of the bank of cash is being run. Money and money systems are essentially political. The fact that we have a crown rather than a euro or some other currency is a political decision. The fact that the aim of inflation is what it is, in a sense reflecting a particular political bitch, though there is certainly some principle to economics. I just mention it to keep it in place that there is no obvious and normal structure for the UN Bank business. Rather, it is always the decision of the day. The reasoning that has been made to do this now in this way is, in part, that someone or some of them have been caught running this way to my mother and running to my dad a game. When financial watch is not impressed with something, the Federal Bank is consulted, and they are sometimes used as a team for one of the third parties. As indicated in chapter 1, the solution to this is simply that these two institutions speak more together, that they have better relations with one another. It works in some countries, for example. correspondent in Germany Still, there are still other reasons to do so. But when we were going through the matter on the committee, I had to admit, repeatedly to myself and others there, that I didn't understand and still don't understand exactly what this particular solution is. I completely agree with some goals, e.g. to put all national ecstatics under one hat. But I fear that the solution is designed to get the slightest resistance from the present system rather than to get the best possible solution for the future. And now there is not necessarily one of the best solutions. This may actually be an unacceptable solution, however, to be concluded because it was required of a decision-making process rather than to produce the best possible result, which could even be the condition of the situation. We cannot really be convinced that this was the best possible conclusion or that this is necessarily an acceptable solution because the evaluation of many sources and even most people is being done in a hurry. There have certainly been many reports, such as hell. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in earlier, who says it's time to go together. But they were not very clear on how to do so. And it does not matter how this is done. So I'm faced with having to decide whether it's best to go this particular way, in the hope that it's good enough to achieve my goals, it's clear enough that it will not come up with any more problems later and that it will not cause the many problems that have been faced, or if I say, and that's the conclusion that I've found, it would be better to work this thing better. This is not necessarily because it has not been won that long but because it seems to have been made with a view to making a conclusion, rather than being the best possible solution. All right. Then there is nothing else, since there is apparently a great desire for the greater part to push the case through, but that we do it at least as harmless as possible. I really enjoyed having a brief meeting at the Federal Bank the other day, where we took two experts who have been in this business for a long time over how to improve this. That, apart from discussions in the Committee and discussions with others in my section, resulted in adjustments that I think everyone should be able to accept. They're going out to try to get things out of order that we've got more access to surveillance, more secure people in the bank, more professionally than anyone -- not that there's a lack of professionalism at the Bank of Iceland ever but we have to take special care of this when so much is placed under one hat that has such a great independence. The most clear point that came out of those conversations was the need for a clear goal. Then I mean either measurable goals or goals that can be confirmed that had been achieved in some way other than personal measurement. Our goals are that we can regularly say: Yes, it has been achieved, or "No, it has not been achieved. " So we're gonna move on because in the long run, and I think everybody knows that, it's not the final form of Iceland's Secret Bank, even if this is the case. The second bank, as well as other institutions in Iceland, always develops. The importance of having good information about whether this arrangement will bring up the results is a key element in ensuring the best results. Even if you do not agree to do this in this way now, we should at least agree that if we can do something better in the future, we can do so. I'm not going to have any more time at this time. The Committee's opinion of the 1st minor part of the Economic and Business Committee will address the main issues, but I'm just leaving the philosophical question whether there is a solution that is right for the bank and financial monitoring and financial order in a country like Iceland and if anyone really believes that this is the solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u52	Mr. President. It's a lot of bill we're discussing here, on the Secret Bank and the United States Office and Federal Affairs. It has to be said that there's a lot of work to go through this bill and figure it out, and I think most senators agree with me on that. There is a lot of effort to learn this fully so as to keep a good perspective on a subject that, of course, is large and much, as I mentioned. And there's a little bit of a doubt that the bill is a small image of the expert power that we sometimes talk about here and Iceland, as I believe. Mr. President. I'm going to try to draw together the main points in this subject and then take a look at the main points I found interesting in the report. But by an undecided route, it was now past the middle of the 20th century kept in a drawer in the Lands Bank, as named Albert Guðmundsson put it so well in his financial affairs. Then Jóhannes Nordal came to control the bank and did it well for some 30 years, and beside it was political assistants, as it were. A major milestone was followed when Davíð the son of Oddsson took over as prime minister and the direct printing of money by the Federal Bank was banned in an attempt to bond with inflation. Its simplest display rate was the government's overwage loan in the Federal Bank to finance a trust fund. I believe, Mr. President, there is a general misunderstanding that the Federal economy has done especially well in the last few years. I think the situation is primarily favorable because the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson took over at the hedges and vulture funds, as we called them, the nominees, and demanded of them a considerable degree of stability which, unfortunately, was partly returned, as we have discussed here many times. All the floods rise up, as they say, and profit came to the Sullen, but it seemed to me that it was way too late to take away the moneyors' heads. If the valley gets tough again, there is no way that one person will regret putting too much power into such a important institution and having the legal advice of a bank. Iceland's secret bank is in my opinion too much pay today for as little a society as Iceland is, especially if the big SEC was to be added. Of course, this points to the fact that there has been no way to reduce the number of employees together with UNECE and the SEC. It was one of the first things that came up when we discussed the unity of these two important institutions, that there was no way to reduce the number of employees. I feel that this is not entirely correct because there must be an additive effect in this union. It involves identifying similar things, even the same ones, and it must only be that policy and requirement that when the integration of such institutions is made, it follows the same policy. In the Middle East, we have criticized the policy of this government when it comes to improving the state's affairs. That the independent party, who has long spoken about detracting the state field, often used the discarded words ◯ do away with their campaigns and in other matters, is still holding back the words of steeding in the government when opportunity arises. It is just sad, in my opinion, that a group that has published the intention of reducing the affairs of the State will not fulfill that statement. We've seen it appear on the budget bill, and with this, two organizations are being united, and no mention is there that there's being something added to the booth or that there's a reason to save money for the state's budget by setting things up. Mr. President. So I'm starting to think that the bill is the main unit of the Federal Bureau of Justice. The main focus on the change is to arrange the situation, but for the rest of the bank's function, it seems to appear that the telescope is placed in place for the blind eye. First, there is the question of the superpowers of the bank manager. Consider the question: With this new legislation, will the bank manager's power be diminished? It is now, Mr. President, that power tends to corrupt and complete power lead to total corruption. This discarded 19th - century Lord Acton's words have stood the test of time. In 2010, when bankers dropped from three to one, few have concealed too much power. The abuse of power is on all witnesses and is well confirmed by the emissary of the Generals. That's what we know. We know the story of the Samaritan language and of what took place there and the introduction to the Council Bank. Unfortunately, in the bill there seems to be no attempt to control the power of the bank manager in any way from the current level. It is not to say that humans are being reduced, unfortunately, not being careful about what they did and that they have given me a reputation for this important institution. Regarding money policy issues, i.e. interest decisions, seems the same way to remain, and the projects of financial status and financial monitoring are addressed to comparable committees and to the greater extent of their votes. These committees contain bank managers and their subordinates. It may be noted that the SEC will then come under the bank manager's money manager, making his power more important than the other. That's when the Federal Bank board is granted at 2 mg. Section 8. increased rights to information, but it means that the head of the Federal Bank should inform the bank of the information that the bank has which is necessary for the bank's bank to play its own role. It is suggested that the bank's bank manager be legally obliged to inform the bank council on key aspects of the bank's policy and on the rules it makes. Then it's time to move on to the bank council's position. I must say, Mr. President, it is quite remarkable that there is a need to establish a law like this. The reason, of course, is that in recent years the bank council has been ignored more and less. The current chairman of the bank board has, for example. expressed concern that the bank manager has not done the law in the Samherian case, but it has had no effect. It should be noted that the bank Council has much less power than in conventional companies and virtually none. Special attention is stated in Article 8. that they cannot intervene in the decisions and activities of the bank. As the examples prove, it does not seem to matter that the bank council is concerned that the bank manager ignores law and order. Mr. President. Would not more transparency be involved in calling the board silk caps? It is much better described as being part of it. But then you don't use easy language: Is it right to give the bank council permission to take special measures if they find out about lawlessness in the bank's activities? Now there is a door to hire the bank manager and three assistant bank managers. A fitting committee has been appointed. Then the question arises, especially following the Court of Justice, who will really rule the order and what the process will be. What's your career? What criteria should be followed by the selection committee? A question is, will it be used to apply to a so - called excel document, but we know the consequences of the activities of such committees in the national court? A professor at the University of Iceland has said publicly that the office is so powerful that it must become political. The general body of elders, therefore, requires that the prime minister inform them of these vital matters. I'd like to step aside, Mr. President, to what seems most interesting to me in the bill, except for what I've mentioned here, and in the report. It says: The crew pointed out that at the same time, they needed to strengthen the head of the Federal Bank by order of a special vice - bank manager, focusing on national economist. At the same time, another vice - bank manager was suggested to focus on money policy. However, there would continue to be one key bank manager who would take responsibility for his business. These three persons would then form a multiorganized administration that discussed some decisions, for example, related to irregular economic management, such as loans for disaster purposes and market intervention decisions that fall out of regular economic management. Then we will discuss key elements of the bill. It says: The bill suggests that Iceland's Navy and SEC will be united in one institution. The responsibility of these two strains is not changed according to current legislation. The changes further led to the integration of tasks in one organisation and to changes in the management and administration system of decision making, especially in the light of increased national interest. The changes are aimed at achieving the objectives set out to increase effectiveness and clarity of responsibility and to improve decision-making management, to be followed, to be non-necessaries of information and to improve the quality of the analysis and perspective as discussed above. The main points of the bill are: 1st Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC are united in a single institution called the "Surlabanki of Iceland. " The bill for changing the law on the various forms of the Union's National Bank and the SEC, along with this bill, states that the UN will be submitted and its task will be entrusted to Iceland's Secret Bank. 2. The goal of the secret bank is to promote steady prices, financial stability, and stable, secure financial functions. 3. The Prime Minister orders the bank manager for five years at a time, though at a maximum of two times. At that time, the prime minister of three vice presidents, including five years of age and a maximum of two times. One of them leads to issues related to money policy, one leading issues involving financial stability and one concern of financial control. The bank managers for financial status and financial surveillance are appointed according to the appointment of financial and economic ministers. 4. The establishment and management of the Seal Bank are placed in the hands of the bank manager. He is responsible for the bank's business and has a decision in all its affairs that are not entrusted to others. Some decisions are made together by bank managers and vice bank managers. 5. Decisions on the application of the bank's authority are taken from a financial conference committee, a financial acting committee, and a financial committee. These committees are appointed in the area of the Navy and in the area of foreign experts. The current bank manager is the chairman of all three bank committees. Here we see, Mr. President, that this bill is less than a cutting down on the power of the bank manager. By permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The bank's payback managers have professional oversight of the bank's work within their own special fields. They are responsible for preparing work for the bank committee and are in addition to his spokesmen in their field. They also sit in the bank's individual committees. 7. The Board of Banks monitors that Iceland's Council operates in accordance with the legislation on the operation. In the bank council, seven votes are made by the General Assembly. I have discussed earlier the bank council in my speech. But here's what it says: It is suggested that the law of banking be canceled, along with a minister, in charge of the bank. This does not really involve material change, for the current law cannot be determined by banking agencies, in fact, to take over the bank's administration, in which the work of the bank board is deemed in Article 28. current law.How many are there? 3 mg. Section 3. The bill suggests that decisions will be made together by the bank manager and the three vice bank managers and are inclusive in the paragraph. The bill suggests that in place of one assistant bank manager, three vice - bank managers will be appointed, but the word "cursing bank manager" means that the job is better than an assistant bank manager. Each vice president is expected to direct the bank's affairs in the field he is appointed to lead, under the direction of the bank manager. So it is suggested that one of the vice presidents in charge of money policy, another leading issues related to financial stability, and the third to financial control issues, as I have mentioned earlier. Mr. President. I see we're running out of time. I'd like to finally say that I agree with what's happened. Davíð It is Smári to postpone this bill for a time, so that it would be Mccarthy to consider more closely the various facts that I have. mention here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u53	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize Iceland's Federal Bank and bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the unity of Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC. Of course, there's a very big case up here, Mr. President. Here we will discuss the unity of two very important institutions that play an important role in the economy of the country. The late bank has had two primary objectives. One involves stability in prices and the other to financial stability. These are fundamental aspects of the economy. Since then, the Secret Bank has made several other important tasks, such as being a creditor, for one thing or another. Throughout history, the secret bank has had an important work to do, for example, to carry out the currency fund, and to oversee their profits. The late bank is behind a long story as a bank of state funds, in a sense. On the basis of an agreement, he has long supervised the loans of a government fund on a global market, although the nature of the case may not have been too much of a factor in recent years. The late bank has had much of it in hand with foreign food companies who have considered the credit rates of government funds. There are three foreign companies that people know from news, Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, they're named. In recent years the bank has been directed in such a way that there has been one bank manager and an assistant banker helping him with money policy decisions. As for the growth of loans and business banks and such factors, decisions have been made that in everyday speech have been called operating interest rates but have had various names in the books of the Federal Bank. I suppose at present there is talk of a basic growth, or of such a thing. The bank's growing decisions are of great importance and are highly regarded in this regard. The bank has chosen to maintain higher interest here, but in most of our neighboring countries and countries, we would like to compare ourselves with and have a short reason for itself. Still, she has been controversial. The late bank, if I may say so, was given a new and unexpected task after the crash, as often mentioned, in October 2008. They set up a number of people at the bank, who had the responsibility to supervise currency exchanges and to follow the rules of the business at that time. As men may remind us, the International Bank Fund's work of taking up a small amount of material was done. Humans also know how they succeeded. The day came when the zebra was evidently not well prepared to carry out this assignment because it requires that within the wall of the institution to perform such tasks be a very special knowledge of the handling of the cases that arise, it is not spoken of when it can be spoken of as a matter of perfunctory violations of law and because of this infringement. It is a very specific assignment when discussing such matters. It is known that both the U.S. tribunal and the U.S. attorney general have made very serious comments in the hearings of the Federal Bank in these matters. They know this well to be made up of the General Board of Directors and Commission, where the General's agent recently came to an open meeting, which I intend to be available on the Generals web, where he spoke to, I allow myself to say, a very direct way about one and another that would have been unfortunate to the bank's agencies, which were clearly considered right or wrong, that the bank should not have cared for as to all the laws and regulations that the bank felt were valid. Of course, it is far too far too much to get into this. But what I just wanted to draw out with these few words is that there is a recent experience that in an important administrative field, the Council of the United States did not prove to be quite well prepared to carry out such tasks, but, contrary to judgment and strong criticism, it must be said, in its activities in these respects. That's why I have to say that when direct legal proposals arise to unite the Federal Bank and the SEC, it's a bit of observation, to say no. I'd like to refer to a committee from the second smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee on the case as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson writes: It describes a smaller section, with the permission of the president, that it is wise to postpone the agreed bill for a time so that space allows more attention to a number of opinions left unsettled, especially as a result of indications from many sources, which warn against the fact that commercial management will be at the hands of the joint institution of the World Bank and the Food Organization. Under this opinion, I'd like to take it. The point is thus growing, so to speak, that a closer look is needed. Mr. President. In neighboring countries and countries we would like to compare ourselves with, there are various ways in the financial management department and the bank. There is no universal formula in that subject, and this is, of course, ecstatic. It's a matter of view. Hence, it is essential that we take time to consider the many facts that must exist when such an important decision is made, i.e. to unite these two institutions Now there is some sort of financial management that is quite different from the main projects I described here in as my firmest case, in regard to the stability of prices and financial stability. We are referring to the surveillance of individual financial institutions, and it is a natural task that has to be said and given and understood, and each one of you must see that it is not obvious that such projects are to be within the same institutions as that one institution is entrusted with such a vast task. We can also talk about, depending on the incident, the social authority that exists there. It's all for observation. Monitoring the activities of the Federal Bank may not have been as powerful as it would be. It has been observed that the bank board's share may not be as strong as ideal. And while meeting here at the World Council when the bank's representatives come to report in particular bank stability activities, very well paying the price, they are in part not quite suitable as a platform for scrambling and identifying the bank's policy, and for making such precise comments as perhaps material in some cases and desirable. This is what I'm saying because these meetings are open. It's just a good thing to say. A large number of members of the committee are sitting in this meeting and time for each one to discuss a case that may burn on a subject, they are much shorter as the number of members and questions are increased. It is difficult to deal with as much discussion and challenging questions as desirable as possible. I'm grateful to the representatives of the banks who have arrived at this meeting, and I believe they've been doing a great job and have nothing to do with them making one or any part of it. I'm just, Mr. President, to point out that this form is not in all ways lost to achieve the kind of conversation as at least sometimes it would be necessary and desirable to talk about individual factors, and that I don't talk about when it comes to the finer nuances of money policy and the decisions taken. Of course, there's a lot of issues up there. In addition, the bank is entrusted with social power. It has the power to influence two major economic volumes, the sizes that pass through the economy completely. It is on the one hand the interest and the price of the currency. These two economics have a completely unique position in this regard, and there is one institution entrusted to this power. And the point is to assign it a very large amount of power to surveillance and discussion on issues of individual financial institutions. And there's doubt, Mr. President. As this case has grown and the order of the cases here, at least Under the prevailing circumstances and in the light of recent experiences, it can be questioned whether this unity is to be called out properly. In that case, it might be rather wise, as noted earlier, to postpone a later approval of the bill by committee party 2. So it is in these words that much time pressure is being taken, as it indicates, when this has taken place a great debate between the political leaders about the way the Council ends his work during this spring. And I have to say, I don't think it's a very good way to think of such decisions as such important and delicate matters being taken under such circumstances, taking some sort of rush. That's not a good thing to do. I reiterate the view that this case would do well to get a closer look and more detailed discussion before these bills will be legalized.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u54	Mr. President. We'll discuss together Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC, which will appear here on two primary counts, i.e. The bill on Iceland's Secret Bank and then a special bill for changing the law on the planned unity. I'd like to first say, of course, that I'm celebrating the union and I've been its spokesman here at the council and, in fact, long before the time when we Icelanders should be careful when it comes to establishing new institutions and growing institutions in this small country. There are only three hundred and some thousand inhabitants in this country, and we should have the main policy of not allowing us the luxury of establishing new institutions. As we have seen, there is no problem with the lack of any kind of organization in this country, and in the vast majority of cases, the institutions are located in the capital area, usually in Reykjavík, and are increasing at an alarming rate and sometimes, like gourphons on a ice heap. I'm glad that a core policy to unite these two institutions. However, in my case I will first speak of the personnel case. While it is certainly not expected that workers will reduce their level of cooperation, there will be a gradual decline in the collective organisation. I reiterate that it is important that the reduction be made in full collaboration and in agreement with the personnel of the institutions. By the way, I'd like to name the officers. It is assumed in the bill that, in addition to the bank manager of the bank, there are three bank managers, the vice bank manager's name. It's all over the place, if there's any new authority, four bank managers. Mr. President. I want to tell you how I feel about it without a trace. I'm totally opposed to this kind of overwork with the exact amount of pay I owe. I'm totally against it. I believe the government should be less reassigned in this case than in any other case. It is also assumed that there is permission from a minister to make head of the F.A. without advertising the vice president of the bank. I don't want you to be forwarding, but I want to reiterate my opinion. I believe this unity should also be called for an economy requirement. It is absolutely necessary for such unity to bring about some economic gains, some work savings. Money savings for the Icelandic state, of course. At this point in the bill, it is not expected that there will be some savings. But there must be a time. It must then be settled into it with the relevant employees and obtained some consistent effect. As soon as I celebrate the unity, as I will do for all of the cohesion of the public institutions, especially in the capital area, I also want to agree with what says in the opinion of a secondary part of the Economic and Business Committee. I believe that the bill should be suspended for a time to look for answers to the various potential topics, e.g. involved in business management that is expected to be on the hands of the new agency. It has been observed in many comments to the committee that it is more reasonable that trade control is not within the Secret Bank but in an independent institution. This opinion is not new to many sources, but most of the Committee feels that there is evidence that the wise course and that my emphasis on it is equally practical to follow the course suggested in the bill. But then, of course, we also take a similar risk that there will be an added interest in a big institution. We'll take that chance. Mr. President. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the economic markets in Iceland, and during the past ten years, the whole system has experienced a major review and criticism. This is a step along the way to improve the quality of the monitoring. We live in a small country that has little economy and that is important to us. In view of what happened in the years before the collapse, when the financial system grew far above our heads, far above what we could, and far beyond what the surveillance system could control, it is important that we learn from bitter experience and carefully approach the earth and be careful. I sure hope these two bills will make progress that way. Before I finish, there's something else I want to mention that's a lot of talk about after a crash but that's less news of in recent years, i.e. ablation in the bank function. This means separation from business banking and investment banking. It has not been realized, and risks related to investment banking are still present. I miss the fact that this subject had not been discussed in recent years, as was truly the case in the years following a collapse and when the economic depression was rife. Then it seemed like a good Latin, trying to separate them from their work. I certainly don't know and I don't have the answer, but I don't work in that sector, the reasons why it is now that no one seems interested in this subject. Such risks must always exist, even if there are no signs of danger now. I think it must be unnatural for banks who receive the money of employees and people who are saving, and loans to minor projects, perhaps from private partners or families, to be so on the other side of the floor above, to let me say, Mr. President, that of some sort of venture capital or of gambling like this before a crash, there may still be an open way for those institutions to work in a way that was part of the reasons why it happened. One more thing I'd like to mention before I finish my case, Mr. President. I think it is very important that, as the Federal Bureau of Economic Affairs is united, legal practices within the Federal Bank will be strengthened by some convention within the new agency, especially with regard to the deteriorations of the Agency, our Secret Bank, came into contact with the telecommunications company. I believe there are a lot of problems in the Agency and that the legal basis for this new agency really needs to be strengthened. I would point out that there might be something saved in reserve bank managers and that they could be given positions so that the bank's legal department would be strengthened instead rather than loading it into the bank's administration. There are other things I was going to discuss with this bill. I want to reiterate at the end that I believe that there needs to be some evidence that the Council of the United States will be the strong monitoring agency that we hope it will be after the union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u55	V.E.G. President. If I understand this correctly, we're here on two issues together, i.e. Both issues involving the Federal Bank, of course, are of great importance in both cases. A number of opinions were received, a few comments that have been taken, and changes that I seem to improve most of the time have been made. A further reduction of the law on the unity of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC suggests that the case will be postponed and it will work better. I agree that it's wise to do that. I also think it's necessary to come out, at least. Mr President, that I believe that normal, these bills will be agreed on in the next few days or in the fall, however it will all be, to wait with the recruitment of the bank manager and that these positions will be advertised again. There is something special about being in the process of recruiting a new bank manager, then accepting changes in the law, and hiring help from the bank manager, etc. I think it would be more reasonable for a person to make that decision immediately to postpone the appointment of the bank manager. I think that's normal, in view of the laws we're putting here. In the opinion given, the role of the bank and the role of the SEC are well discussed and whether it works together wisely. It deals with the independence of the Agency and its ability to operate independently. You've also seen some speculation about it, and I think it's in the opinion of the 1st section, that the Navy can't become a big, big tie in our administration system that he doesn't obey any laws. It is recommended that companies and even institutions be associated. The organization of industry has a detailed review of the harmony, considering the authority involved. They're talking about multi-organized banking administration, etc. It seems to me that the committee did a good job on the case, as indicated by the memory of the item. It does well to review the changes made by the committee. These changes, especially those related to harmony, are clearly a long way to come about, and natural in the light of the financial crisis and what happened to us. In view of the greater part of the committee, the history and who were involved, scholars, experts, the World Cash Fund, etc. It identifies the changes that exist and the effects they may have. Of course, it seems that each of the suggestions, but I agree with two smaller things, I think they're improving. One of the changes in the largest part's proposals for total pay, in a 790 case, for the Sentencing Bank, are proposed to change the legal staff which allows the secretary to determine the salary of the bank manager and the vice bank manager by permission of the president: ▪ The more part contributes to the final part of the 3 mg per month. 5. Article 5 of which entitles a minister to decide that the pay of the bank manager and the vice bank manager will increase the proportion of January 1 in accordance with the proposed change on the terms of the remuneration under the directive will be removed. This suggests that the proposal harmonizes with the adjustment of the majority of the Committee's proposals to the bill to legalize the change of various laws due to the termination of the law on the advice of manure, 413. You could say that it's normal to coordinate. Similarly, we need to ponder the everlasting question of independence. It will then be discussed by bank experts to appear before members of the Senate and to report to the World Commission and to the FESEC. I think there is a great improvement in the fact that the Council is getting a clearer picture or can perform its surveillance role, which would be the result of receiving a report like this. It is suggested that it be annually, but not twice a year, as is true of a money policy committee, so the level of transparency in banking committees is in itself being increased. I think that's a good thing. The publication of the decision - making and meeting committees is then referred to. I think it really doesn't matter where we end up with this case, it's important that the law of this institution be explained, whether the uniting will or not. Of course, if there is any uncertainty about what the future will look like, it's not bad for employees, whether it's the FESI or the Federal Bank employees. This is improved if this can be explained in some way, but in spite of it, we must not rush down and sit down with even worse decisions than not. It's a big case that's been working on for a very long time, as we've seen here. It is reasonable to acknowledge only 1st decrease in opinion in this matter. More defenses are struck, but in view of the greater part, they realize that they have found it normal to consider what is done abroad. Here you can request information from England, Germany, and other locations that are normal when considering this matter. They make the independence of the FDA somewhat a subject that is natural. It's important that the FDA continues to be independent, and I think it can be implemented within the bank. We know that it has been discussed with a special banker, or director, in that area or department or what we call it. This further underscores what I said at the beginning of my case, Mr. President, that it is normal to postpone the decision-making of the bank manager until this has been accepted and advertised all at once and again. I think there's a better look on the case. The late bank is such an institution that it must exist, as it has been in the past, as much unity and trust in government as possible. That trust may have to be restored over a long period of time, as is true of some other organizations that have since been seen in the collapse, but it is the role of a new agency to work in it. It may be good for you to advertise again and to be counseled all at once. In the opinion of the first minor segment, the President's permission says: It is therefore necessary to minimize the possibility that ministers could interfere with the activities of the Commission and the Federal Bank. The decisions made by these two important strains are thus much more likely to become uninvolved. Under this, you can take it. It's important that the Navy bank at any given time be completely independent, and I think it is. I think we've even seen in the collapse of the bank and the aftereffects that the bank showed a measure of independence. Naturally, it was controversial, but it was shown that there was a measure of initiative and independence. I think it was good in itself that the way things were handled at the time. I think it would have been worse if the bank had lained the laws of politicians at the time. It was important to maintain a firm, calm, and firm course at that time. In talks, people have wondered about money policy and expected it to remain the same. I think there's something that needs to revise at any given time. It must be a living debate as to whether our best offer is in the course of success, growth, and success. Of course, it is necessary to have a conversation between the Sensitive Bank and those who handle the economy. At the very least, I think that harmony has to be there so that the Agency's decisions also reflect economic realities and take into account what is going on in them. I have also often wondered about the fact that when we have seen some of the Agency's superiors appear and criticize certain things, even predicting bad things that should happen if the other things happen, and in one way or another - they have warned against collective agreements, etc. - that it is also important that if we find ourselves in a position to return to some form of financial crisis or crash in Iceland, the managers of the Federal Bank are growing so that they can survive the storm, take the big picture, and focus on what is most important. Then you will review the so-called Icezave case. Various economists and economists, who even now have a role within the Sensian Bank warned that if Iceland didn't pay this account, the chest as the Dutch would want us to do, it might mean a huge year for the Icelandic people. V.E.G. Business minister who was then given special warning against this and good if they did not speak of Cuba of the North, etc. It is important that those in the Secret Bank have officials who do not speak that way, who do not bend despite pressure abroad. It was too common to talk in the years after a crash to count the international community something you would have to bend to. Fortunately, there were individuals who cleaned up and fought hard against it. At the General Assembly, there were members who endured the storm. The result was much more practical for Iceland than it might have been, we tried free of paying the big bills that politicians and scholars, even ministers and people now sitting on the Federal Bank Board, wanted us to take on. It's not a good road, Mr. President, into launching a new Navy bank, a new joint agency, if it's not clear that its rulers today or expected to see the big movie, realizes what is not only legal for Iceland but also just. We used both the law and the justification of not paying and not taking on these debts as men with degrees, bosentan, and so on said they'd be expensive for Iceland. It is important that the handling of this law succeeds. I believe that the committee worked very well in this case, and the head of the Committee endeavored to make the matter well, as did other members of the committee. Without a doubt, things can be changed. It is an improvement, as indicated in a committee study 2. Smaller part, but it may not be the best way to accept it now. It may be better to work harder. The opinion of 2nd memory is indicated by the permission of a president: ▪ On the other hand, 2 smaller parts feel that it is wise to postpone the approved bill for a time so that the balance allows for more careful consideration on the various matters still to arise, especially because of signs from many sources that warn against the fact that commercial management will be at the hands of the United Nations Agency and the FDA. It's worth taking. There is always a problem when we want to reduce the number of government institutions, unite institutions, decide where it is good, and where it is not. Some might say that this is normal, but it must be a requirement for economic gain and savings. This isn't just supposed to be on a punt, just to create some strong agency of authority. It is only natural for this to be practical, as it were. Finally, I think I'll reiterate what I said at the outset, that it is normal to postpone hiring the bank manager as it is to do and examine it all at once. It is strange to accept new songs during the recruitment process, it is normal to postpone them. I hope that when it comes to the manipulating agency after these changes, when this has been agreed, regardless of what it all will look like, it will not only be seen of the available papers but also of what men are made, what is important in the big context, where Iceland's defenses lie when it comes to this immensely important aspect of our economy, the Seðla Bank itself. I'll let it be my last word, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u56	Mr. President. I'm just going back to my previous talk, and I didn't finish it for the sake of time, as I was reviewing the points on the bill that I found most interesting. I'd just like to step to 3. the bill where you suggested it in Section 3. that certain decisions will be made together by the bank manager and the three vice bank managers, which are counted in the paragraph. In Comb 4. The bill is suggested that in place of the assistance of one bank manager, three vice bank managers will be appointed, but the word "superfine bank manager " views the job as better than an assistant bank manager. In fact, I only brought this into my first speech. Each vice president is expected to direct the bank's affairs in the field he is appointed to lead, under the direction of the bank manager. This suggests that one of the vice presidents is leading a financial policy issue, another leading to financial stability issues, and the third leading to financial control issues. Eight. it says that if the bank council thinks that it is a reason to make comments about the bank's activities, it may reveal its opinion with the bank manager or with others in the bank. Is the position of the bank council not binding to bank managers, committees or others who have authority in the matter unless this is directly caused by the letters 1 mg. The Council of Bank is permitted to inform the Council or Others about the activities of the Council and the Federal Bank. Then I'd also like to call attention to 2 mg. Section 8. it suggests that there will be a new law on information provided to the bank council, which means that the head of the World Bank is giving bank advice on the information that the bank has that is necessary for the bank to take care of its own role. It is suggested that the bank's bank manager be legally obliged to inform the bank council on key aspects of the bank's policy and on the rules it makes. I mentioned in my first talk that there is something unusual about having to put such emphasis or such a law in. Actually, Mr. President, there's something very different. The reason, of course, is that in recent years the bank council has been ignored less and less. It's just something that's fact and we've come across. The 2nd issue, 1st. Twenty-eight. is, as in current 1st put it, that the Federal Bank is permitted to establish or participate in enterprises and institutions of the prenuptial market and stock registration. Then you can find a new recommendation in the panel that you also refer to companies and agencies in the area of Public Public Service, but previously you could find a reference to payment systems. It is also recommended that the requirements of the bank's source be added to establish or participate in enterprises and organisations due to the management of the European Commission and the requirements and other activities related to the activities of the bank. It is important that this source of the Council Bank be made clear in its provision, and it has been assumed that it is permitted to establish such societies up to now, e.g. Iceland's Secret Service ehf, the purpose of which was to take possession and management of the requirements and ideals that the bank released following the financial crisis in the fall of 2008. Hence, this involves, not a physical change, but a correction. I'd like to mention in this regard that I have asked a financial and economic minister for a written answer a while ago on the Secret Bank and the activities requested there. A card has a lot on transparency or transparency, as perhaps further, in the activities of this society and the granddaughter's society of Hilda ehf. It has to be said at the moment, and the reason may have been that this has caused suspicion because these communities have been abated by information laws and were to extend the rules of the dating process. I don't know what the situation is in that case. I requested information on this in my inquiry, and I must describe my frustration by how late it takes to answer it. More requests have been offered, but answers have not been received even for months. This has been discussed, and through the president of the council, it has been requested to press on to these matters. I reiterate this in this context, Mr. President, because this is a review of the National Bank of Iceland's Customs. In the end, I would like to introduce only a few excellent reviews received by the commission. It contains, for example, It's a review from the Association of financial companies and reviews from the Iceland Business Council. I'm just going to pause at the reviews that discuss the economic management of the strains. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Business policy has always spoken for public management so that funds will be used in the best way possible and in order to ensure good service. This involves business advice, and it can further be used by financial companies who need to provide information to one person instead of two. That, of course, is positive. The Council of Business claims that it is a natural requirement for the union of government institutions such as this, Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC, two very important institutions, to include some practicality. Because it is clear that some of the work that has been done within both of these institutions, especially in diagnostic work, i.e. that both of these institutions have been partly working on the same things. In the context of the requirement, I'd like to say, Mr. President, that money is looked forward to making the most of it and that it can be managed by this cohesion. It's not. Especially was the introduction of plans to reduce the number of employees in the first place. I think, with all due respect to the fine staff who operate at those institutions, it would be relatively easy to get a job in their area. These are usually all experts with vast and specialized knowledge that is useful in various fields. But, in my opinion, it's supposed to be a goal for this to involve some kind of profit. A business agency suggests that there is an extremely powerful institution here and that even the powers of the Federal Bank have become too great. More people or organizations have expressed concern for them. The bodies of financial companies and Iceland's Stock Hall have shared the same concern. In view of such comments, we need to examine how proper distribution within the Sensitive Bank is ensured and provided for good management. I'll make that my last words in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u57	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on changing the law because of the unity of Iceland's National Bank and the SEC that is actually having two issues at once. I've only been looking through the reviews of a bill to legalize the Federal Bank of 790, and I want to read from the reviews, with the permission of a president. The first one is from the Allied Union of Iceland, and he reads this way: Iceland's National Association has moved a bill to legalize the law of the 790s. The bill presents new overall legislation on Iceland's Secret Bank. The main turn on the bill is that of the Federal Bureau of Justice and the SEC together. Financial management will thus be brought under the operation of Iceland's Central Bank. In addition, changes in the management systems of the Federal Bank are proposed, including that three committees, money conferences, financial status committees, and FESECs make decisions on the use of authority. It is expected that there will be one main bank manager and three vice bank managers, each leading a case of one committee. The change is aimed at ensuring financial stability and monitoring of national response. The primary objective of the change is to increase effectiveness and clarity of responsibilities, add management to decision-making, improve the use of information and improve the quality of analysis and improve perspective. Iceland's public relationship does not comment on the main subject of the bill and makes it seem reasonable to the objective of the change. ASI believe, however, that it is important that the changes are not to be made in the activities and tasks of the relevant institutions and to reduce their ability to perform their surveillance and research and to protect public interests, including the protection of consumers in financial markets. In the 5th. The bill discusses the pay and salary of the bank manager and assumes that the pay of the bank manager and the vice bank manager will change every July on July 1 according to Iceland's Habitat assessment of the relative change in the average regular pay of the state for the next year. Then a minister is also authorized to increase the pay every 1 January according to an estimated change in the average regular pay of the government. This procedure complies with the changes proposed in the bill to correct the change to the law due to the termination of the CREEP Council (413th case during the current council). ASI covered this matter with the changed remuneration arrangements in the future, but it is acceptable to increase pay on July 1, every year, and to strongly oppose the authority of a minister to increase the pay every 1 January, year according to the estimated change in the average regular pay of the workers of the state. That's interesting. And I'm here with another review from the university, and I'd like to, with the permission of a president, to read from it a little bit, too: ▪ The secretary sent in a review of the previous drafts that the above bill to the Ministry of Presidency less than a month ago. The main part of this review is found as a subheading of this, to be used for the Council to end its message simply and briefly explained the historical comparison between the different objectives of the bank and its purpose. This new narrative is added to one point that is also simple and important. The review is based on expert knowledge and the experience signed on capital markets, a doctor's work on bank collection and international bank extensions. The previous review was aimed at adding one new objective in Article 2. The law's bill on professional levels. It has to be considered that new collective legislation is not merely a response to the big financial crisis, which is called the financial crisis in a paper with the bill. In general, it is likely that the next grading will be different from the last one, so it should be noted that for the new legalization, it is appropriate to look back in the course of more than a decade, such as all back to the Great Depression, which is often targeted in 1929. That's about it. More than old men can remember. ▪ You might well say the desirable fourth objective of Article 2. in that it does not deal directly with professional levels, as suggested in previous reviews (in fact, the U.S. law refers to the laid down of employment) but to the goal of the appropriate Icelandic wording that went to the labour market and its stability. Thus, it would also be possible to add the fourth committee, whose role would be to support the Federal Bank with external experts to consider the conditions of the workforce to the level of finance market (with merit status, financial stability, and trust and security). It is not taken here to see if there is a fourth backup bank manager or if the general economic stability objective to a labour market will depend on the bank manager himself. A small additional clue turns to wording for the third goal of Article 2. As it stands today, the concept of trust and security is a vague concept of use. It is not clear from the article or the report what is the difference between the two terms and the differences between solid functions and reliable functions or what are being achieved by both terms. The rationalization of a report with the forward bill for the comment signed to the previous dates presented in the previous month's consultations are in order that it is inevitable that it is different from driving it through simple reasoning. It says on page 18. 41◯42: ▪ Up until 2001, full - time work was one of the Pentateuch's objectives. The change in law in 2001 focused on simplifying the bank's goals in money policy. In some ways, the goals went against one another, not realizing which one was the priority. With a flexible inflation aim, we take into account the level of employment as well as the frame of the Council, the decision must be made to advance the government's economic policy, which he does not consider to be contrary to his goals. However, the loss of a job goal in a change of law since 2001 is a reasonable argument in which the simplicity of the adjustment was based on theoretic misunderstanding that one objective was a simple solution to the successful work of a bank. The 2008 experience showed the world that focusing on prices made one blind to the problem of financial instability. Adding financial stability and third goal is just another reason why the fourth goal could be wise rather than undesirable. In view of the past decade's experience, it is not sufficient to add only financial and financial goals to correct the adjustment since 2001. For details on the importance of the job objective in the short-term comparator Adams Toozes included in the accompanying package. Then, the term "circustic " is referred to as a solution in the report to the previous subheading of signed but nowhere else in the bill or in the report on this concept. It cannot be seen that the expected flexibility of the Icelandic bank makes it different from the American, European, or New Zealand referred to in the above package. The question of how much society should be prepared to pay for, for example, the recovery of inflation from 4% to 2%, the general cost of inflation in all parts of the world, or 2.5% as defined here. There is no good analysis of why one of them is better than the other, or 3%, or any other absolute objective. As Alan Blinder, former vice president of the U.S.A., noted in his book Hard Heads, Soft Hearts, does not like society, and should not want to pay it a very expensive goal - by reducing inflation, for example, from 4% to 2%. The benefits and defects of the complex interaction of the economy must be assessed and it may be extremely dangerous to believe that a physical law with fixed numbers is a physical one when it comes to society. In view of the above reasoning and the accompanying previous narratives, a historical review of the importance of employment or employment market goals is made up of the suggestion for the Council to add the fourth objective in Article 2. the bill on the Iceland Seurla Bank for a work market, which is equal but not based on the other three goals. As a result, decision - making and operating machines are not working against the interests of the citizens of the country, thus achieving a better and more secure stability. As a result, the Court's independence will be assured to the future so that he will be a public servant in many ways and may, in turn, regain the trust he deserves and is essential for the well - being of his community. V.E.G. President. It's quite a story, and it tells you that you want to do a job and learn from past years and decades' experience at the same time. it says that rice should be taken into account, and it should take decades of time back. I remember the old days when the Great Depression of 1929 was spoken of, and it is quoted in this review. Then everyone remembers today from the 2008 crisis. I've had nothing but good experience since I can remember and until 2008 with some tiny mattresses in between, and it's so weird that once you've had a good experience, you think that nothing bad can happen later. But when men who have both the education and experience in these matters and deal with them on this road, you feel secure. It's obvious that everyone wants to get better, because it sounds like this bill about the harmony of Iceland's National Bank and the SEC in my head pretty good because it's good that these forces can work together under the same roof. In fact, in the 2008 financial breakdown, however, some sort of lack of communication, it was spoken of in a considerable way. Now, I'd like to end up with a comment on page 2, a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, which is short and sweet, but maybe frame a little bit on how the person here is looking at it, by permission of the president: A small part of the Economic and Business Committee considers the Management Board to consider a review of legislation on Iceland's Federal Bank and Economic Affairs to be commended for the quality and professional management of the bills being developed here. A smaller part of the work of the Economic and Business Committee on the situation is considered to have been good, and some of the more part of the bill has been proposed to improve. However, a smaller portion of the book suggests that it is wise to postpone the approved bill for a time so that there will be room for more careful attention to the various matters of opinion that still remain unsettled, especially due to indications from many sources that warn against the fact that commercial management will be at the hands of the United Nations Office and the Economic Organization. So many were words, tops. Mr President, and I'm not going to have this any further until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u58	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize Iceland's Federal Bank and also at the same time a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the unity of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC. I'm going to read from two, three reviews received by the bill on the Secret Bank Act, but before it does, I'm going to go over my goals a little bit. The objective of these changes is, of course, to unite into one of the two institutions, the National Institutes of Iceland and the SEC, but there will be no change in the activities responsible for these two institutions under current legislation. These changes are primarily involved in the integration of tasks in one organisation and in the changing management and management arrangements in decision-making, especially in view of the increased intensity of national economic response. Our objective is to include: to enhance the clarity of responsibilities and to improve management, effectiveness in decision-making and use of information, thereby increasing the possibility of increased quality of analysis and perspective as a result, which is the primary objective of the change, a strong monitoring agency. There are several defenses in the reviews of various people, and I'm going to start by reading a little more of the reviews of the Labour Association, where they focus on improving the quality of the economy that is obtained by this union. They discuss the 2008 financial breakdown and the problems of securing economic stability thereafter and then saying, by permission of the President: Since that time, financial stability and the development of the rest of the financial system have also been focused on as well as on the global development of a so - called national response. Implementation and the selective application of such devices that deal with loan expansion, the expansion of key elements in the general and systematic weaknesses of the financial system is evidence of this. Because of the smallness of the Icelandic economy, a national interest is particularly important, since the use of such devices strengthens the money policy and affects the debt of households and businesses. Then they say: Therefore, the required steps taken by the Scientific Committee (SA) and an important factor in maintaining financial stability as one of the basics of economic stability are required. THESE, however, would like to make some comments. And then they come. I'm not going to read them in one piece, but with the permission of a president, there are a few places to stop. The employment community considers it important that all national and economic instruments should be handled and discussed considerably. They also encourage governments to look to the opportunities that will develop for economic gain in the unity of the two institutions, but one of the reasons for the unity is the disaster of the present system. Then they say and emphasize that the ability of the Federal Bank to achieve its legal objectives is not being determined by it and that it is a guard for political independence to the new institution. Then, by permission of the President, they say: The U.S.A. suggests that the proposed change in property loans to consumers and currency laws will be reviewed. The bill recommends that the Federal Bank be allowed to set rules, that fenden approval of a minister, concerning the peak mortgage rates, maximum total interest loans, or payment paid in proportion to consumer income, and on loans linked to foreign currency to non-payers. This kind of regulation, which may affect individual access to loans, may be necessary under certain conditions to maintain financial stability, but may prove to be unpopular among the common people, thus setting a minister in a very difficult position as a democratic official. Then, with the permission of a president, they say: ▪SA considers it important not to reduce the ability of the Federal Bank to carry out its role in the price-stabilization in the planned union. And later: ▪ It's good to look to the events that have resulted from the World Bank Pension Control and the proposed coverage. Such reputations can undermine the Federal Bank and thus undermine the credibility and effectiveness of money policy. In that case, the budget of financial monitoring, including the network of Towers, has been established. has been shown to be well in Britain, but other countries have also found that the implementation of market and consumer protection is not compatible with the implementation of national eco-efficiency. Finally, with President's permission: ▪SA agrees with the KaIhall's view that it is abnormal to include an active participants in the stock market and currency market, to monitor the same markets. Who's gonna monitor them? Later, with President's permission: ▪SA considers the need to respond to additional authority and increased responsibilities of the Federal Bank to the union. It is necessary to strengthen and review both the responsible and the management procedures within the bank in order to ensure adequate distribution of power. Finally, they say, with President's permission: Since then, history has shown that government spending tends to grow together. It is important to avoid this, but PCI will only be achieved by a decrease in the number of employees. In view of these words, I have sometimes said that it is important in such cases to work with employees and agree with them to find solutions to the problems such as combining institutions and possibly reducing employees and offering employees, at the same time, suitable opportunities, depending on events elsewhere, and try to work at harmony. In the review of the FDA, I was going to quote a little bit, with the permission of a president: ▪ In view of the above, it is somehow unfortunate that the state's loans and the market control modules are within the same institution. As reported in the UNECE review of basic data on the integration of the institutions, the UNEP stresses that appropriate measures in the organization and practices of the joint organisation will be taken to limit the risk and support of future stakeholders. Consider some examples. In the review of the hall - and my time has now come so far that I will try to choose from what I had specifically meant about what they have said in their second reference. By permission of the President: Since only three commercial banks are a large part of the banking system in general, the requisition of national economists and communities is particularly strong here. This change is also in line with references in various other expert reports over the past few years and is discussed in a paper with the bill. They're going over this in a lot of teams and they say here, for example, by permission of a president. Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Second, if there is no powerful reason, it is not desirable to go further in the compression of power. Clearly, the dangers of such compression are high. If necessary, this will call for a wide range of defenses and detailed processes to restrain power and ensure good governance and will never be as good as the spread of power. I want to agree with these views. But, finally, in my last seconds, I want to reiterate what I said in my first speech: I think it is the most reasonable thing to delay the approval of these bills for a while, so that there may be some facts that remain because of the many sources of counsel, such as, for example, that there are many sources. In regard to business management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u59	Mr. President. I'd like to express my joy that I'm in a side room gawking at the head. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. I am very happy that he is observing the discussions on these two subjects and especially the talk that will be given now. It seems to be the custom of this government to reduce restrictions to bring a lawsuit into the council until the last minute, and then to take everything out in one burning rush. I could give you a number of examples of this, which, although only those strategies have changed, is the natural principle of the third energy package, which was to be forced through with no discussion. There are now two prime reports on Iceland's Federal Bank and the changing of various laws due to the unity of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC. I'm going to say at the outset that there's nothing wrong with the way these cases have been prepared as such. The preparation has been very difficult. The reviews of both the preliminaries and the way she presented the case to a financial and business committee and all of that -- all of that was a role model. That doesn't change the fact that I hate these two things. I don't know if those who are involved in politics in Iceland have noticed that the person being present has been critical of the latecomer's work. More important, since I have found that Iceland's Sdllabanki has in recent years made economic failures, especially with regard to steering interest decisions. Today, the person standing here does not want to block the independence of the Federal Bank, as it were. On the other hand, I do not stop because the Council Bank has made the rhythmic and economic failures of the preceding years, especially in terms of, as I say, the decision of the steering growth. Then I especially want to clean up in 2015. In the preparation of collective agreements, the person mentioned here felt that there was a song to reduce control growth significantly. Sadly, this was not done, and it required an inflation here, and I don't talk about growth, have been much higher than that in neighboring lands. There was a time when, for example, would exist. Norwegian government, the Federal Republic of Norway, faced with high inflation, and Norway's Sensitarian Council took steps to minimize the growth of direct growth of very handsome in large steps. If I remember correctly, in Norway in one year some 4% went down to approximately 2%. Then still lower, and they're now, if I remember correctly, at 0.25% or something and they've been pretty long. In short, this resulted in a dramatic reduction in Norway's inflation within a very short period of time. It's coming even. ... in a very good BS essay I've come up with recently made up of a young woman who is very well - known to us in the Middle East called Hallfríður Hólmgrímsdóttir Monsterdddóttir. This BS essay, which I'm sure will account more publicly in the near future, has concluded that in order to reduce the inflation of dramatic, as you say, this advice worked by the Norwegians, i.e. to lower the control growth in very large steps at very short times, extremely well. In the country, people did not have the courage to do this in 2015, but I wondered, and in fact, I've looked in a carpenter to a few professionals who know what the consequences would have been if the fliers had been lowered, for example. About 2% in the middle of 2015. I think it's almost certain that we can make a firm statement that we couldn't have done that operation to others like the rise and support of the crown's gang, and it really happened after that. However, this strength of the crown had a very serious effect on e.g. travel services and particularly tourism companies. In any case, this high - level policy was a factor in our fall of one large airline and our other large airline has been at odds. Even though everything looks good in that town, such success has not led to trouble for them. I'd also like to mention that despite that - and I'd like to reiterate that I don't want to limit the independence of the Federal Bank - there has been nothing especially good about its independence. I'd like to mention, for example. recent cases involving currency control and in which not all have gone to the grave. We do not yet know whether the Icelandic state will be facing a lawsuit as a result of its actions in one particular matter against a particular company. It is just as likely to be appealed to a damage case against the National Bank because of his conduct and the bank manager and the highest executives in this matter. So that's what it's like. That step that scares something, and that is also why this fine bill about the Secret Bank itself, in part, disappoints me. Because I thought that humans might be able to strengthen something other than the inflation goal for the Sufficiency Bank itself so that he would get free hands and better tools to keep the economy in order. I don't remember any better, Mr. President, but at a meeting at a good time. A Economic and Business Committee has one of the precommittee's executives that the contract of these bills said that if we can put it that way, I think, about $1000, I remember. 80 people in the world. 78 of them have a economy that is based on something other than inflation goals. You can count it against me, Mr President, that I have not yet found out what state it is that is of these two. Iceland is different, and I haven't been able to find out, and I haven't been able to find out where the other state is, which follows the same policy as we in economic management, i.e. inflation goals, no matter what you drink and sing This may be a big disappointment, except now it's time to order the bank manager, the recruitment process is in place. So now it's time to order the bank manager before these laws, which we are about to change, become valid. A new bank manager will be hired on the basis of current legislation on Iceland's Secret Bank and will then operate on a completely new law if it is approved. I don't think that's a problem. That's what I have to say. But what actually stands out in my opinion in this bill on the Federal Bank that is available here are the many committees and advice to be given. First, Mr. President, three assistant bank managers are to be hired. One of these vice presidents is, in fact, supposed to be controlling the SEC, but a part of it is again monitoring the operations of the Secret Bank, under the bank's main bank manager. I can't get this to work, Mr. President, not at all. There'll be four bank managers, one number and three backups. Then there will be three committees of money, and what are their names? As far as I can see, there's only about three men there. 20 committees to be advisers of the bank. Then they should appear once or four times a year before the Senate committee and report their accomplishments during the current year. I don't think it's efficient, Mr. President, but maybe I'm just getting this wrong. Still, I hope and argue that I do not. Just this point, because I know that this groundwork was good and good and took a long time, but then, at this last moment, people come into the council, and it's supposed to be done almost without discussion here in the Senate Hall. Like so many other cases now leading. It's natural, Mr. President, not good. It's not a good practice, it's not. I would have been very happy if the discussion about these two bills, because now I'm only talking about the money company bill itself, had been well treated, I don't mention that if men had simply postponed both of these matters so that they could get a better crossing, especially in the Senate room, and a serious discussion, but not that they could run on in the last days of the council. I just don't understand that march. It's the same, in itself, together. I'll be happy to admit that I had a lot of good intentions with this SEC unit and Secret Bank. There were, of course, talking about greater power in the operation. In fact, it was stated that there should be no economy because there was no need to reduce the number of employees by one. Rather, they were to create some super-rich government agency of over 300 people. Because the united SEC and the Council will be an institution of 300 people. Besides, as I say, independent, as we have seen, it really means that it will become an unswerving minister at any given time. Now it is both prime minister and financial minister in itself to arrive. In itself, they cannot use themselves in any way or in any way if they feel bad. It's those things that disappoint me. Then I can honestly say that, because in itself I had a lot of faith in this stroke force and this increased knowledge that would accumulate in the Secret Bank by coming in there, that then you will hear a warning about the very challenges of men who know very well how to act. It gives me the lead and first to Professor Gylfi Zoëgi, who is now one of the members of the Department of Money Policy, because all knots are familiar, except for being an excellent scholar. Because he certainly is. He has expressed great doubts about this unity. When you hear good scholars make such strong warnings, as Gylfi Zoëga has in this case, you cannot help but listen to what they say. And as I've said it before in this chair and will certainly say again: this is one of the biggest faults of Icelandic politicians - and maybe it's an international problem, I don't know - is reluctant to admit that they were wrong, reluctant to look at matters more carefully when they even see and know that things are not quite as straight as men thought at the beginning. It is a song of great importance that we do not say to ourselves, " Let's just stand up. ' Let us review these matters, review these criticisms, review these indications, consider the advice that has been directed to us. And if we are just as convinced after taking note of all this that it's right to go as it is in these two primes, let's do it. But I don't understand the insolence of not wanting to pay attention to the warnings of people like Gylfi Zoëgi. I just don't understand it. I say again that we politicians often make decisions based on other people's counseling. Because the nature of the matter is the case, we cannot comment on the details of each matter. Therefore, we must rely on the expertise of others who give us opinions and reviews, etc. But it is by no means indiscriminate if we ignore the opinion and advice of the best in the world. That's why I thought it would've been best if we'd put off both of these cases. We would have considered them once, then, critical, and in view of the counsel, the counsel, and the counsel, and the criticisms made by men like Gylfi Zoëgi. Because we know this, Mr. President, and let us not ignore it, that, at every council in the near future, we are accepting a matter that needs to be taken up in part, sometimes in small ways, sometimes basically, basically, completely unscrupulously after they are taken care of and approved at the Allied Assembly of Iceland. I just think that this experience, on its own, should tell us and show that we need to be careful. When we adopt such important laws and laws and laws on the Bank of Iceland, I think that we owe ourselves to that nation as much as the natural nation, that we will do these matters as possible. It makes me feel like there's a shortage here. Now I repeat my words at the beginning: these words are well prepared. It's been quite a while getting ready. However, the treatment of all the work that has been done has not been exemplary, much less. In itself, I feel that we are going through these matters in a subtle way, feeding them through the council during the last days to minimize the work that the good people did that prepared for these matters as well as they did. It doesn't change my opinion that e.g. I don't feel comfortable with the Secret Bank as it's set up. I don't understand why people didn't take this opportunity because these laws were being recorded and they made the fundamental changes that could have come to the good, the Secret Bank, and all of us. So I say again, Mr President, let us take this matter more seriously, take it aside, and put it off for a moment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u60	Mr. President. I'd just like to step in by the review of the Association of Financial Corporations, where the organization is involved in rebuilding the seminars at a financial market, which was laid down in its time, and the organization has emphasized the need to be restored. That's why they've given a good argument. The review says, with the permission of a president: The European Union of the European Union, the European Union of the European Union and the United States, has been established by the European Commission. And under that I have put my mind to it, and I have only infiltrated it in my previous speeches. So there will be a very powerful organization, such as me and the media have entered our speeches. It is strongly emphasized that this trend gives rise to the evidence that the state of the United Nations calls for the establishment of a judicial committee, such as the former committee, which allows financial firms to go into conflict and get a relatively rapid payment in this regard. It's important. They argue that the development of a financial labour market has been in such a way that surveillance partners have increasingly received highly broad, even estimating control warrants and monitoring measures that are not based in all cases on a clear recovery of ◯. Of course, that's a concern. We'll see what happens when the Bank of Iceland gets to the big, important project of the currency department. It's broken, and more than it's in that surveillance, and I'd like to say that it was inadvisable to the Federal Bank on how certain matters were handled there. Then I'd especially like to mention the Samherja case. As a result of this increased monitoring, the organization says that it is important that these organisations live under active control. Under that circumstances, Mr. President, I take my heart. It is important that the members of the surveillance body, such as these, live under the control of a higher authority to ensure that the application of a surveillance warrant will be met by unscheduled principles of the Court's rights, in order to maintain a moderate and equilibrium in addition to the use of objective viewpoints in making decisions in the setting of the administration. The organization believes that the best available situation in this regard is such a seminarary committee, that it is the best way to provide such support, and that it would strengthen the function of the new organisation under financial control. If this bill is legal, we have a very powerful surveillance agency, and there is good evidence to support the appeal of issues and conflicts to the superior authorities. It is perfectly normal in such a situation and in a court of law that it can be done. This committee was released at its time, in 2006, and the evidence included the same. that it would be so great a difference between the banking system and the Rapporteur, because of the size of the banking system, that it would be important for the FME to cut that language overhaul. I'm putting this right here because I think it's a very important point of the Commission's review and just to put it in perspective. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I see that time is over, and I will point to the conclusion that we are going over this matter carefully and postpone it. I think it's very sensible, and there's a lot of people here who have given us good reasons to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u61	Mr. President. I believe that there are a reason to call attention to some of the points presented in the comments on this important matter. At the beginning of my speech, I want to reiterate the position I gave in my first talk that this big matter would do well to get a closer look. There's nothing that calls for a quick delivery. Now that there is a notable lack of time, there is even more reason to put this issue aside for now and to further investigate the proposed union of the Secret Bank and the SEC. It is worth investigating how the company of companies that are active here under the umbrella of the Business Management Board communicates. There is a review of the agreement between the Federal Bank and the SEC, at least for factors involved in financial stability. This is an outstanding part of this unity, for there is only one specific aspect of it. The review shows that although it is reasonable in many respects, it is not faultless and, with the permission of a president, let me refer directly to the heading that says: THE previous review showed that financial market surveillance is different from the role of promoting financial and financial stability and focuses primarily on the implementation of laws and regulations. Such a job can damage the credibility of SI in other areas, as the experience with the S.I.O. seems to show. The conduct of money policy and other activities of the United States will never be stronger than his credibility, so much is at stake. There will also be an exceptionally powerful organisation, with the cooperation of SI and FME, and a report will refer to studies that highlight potential conflict of interest and that the authority of the bank has this arrangement even too much. Here is a warning, and they are supported with reference to a foreign literature. That's where the President's permission goes: ▪ Further, e.g. The activities of the industry, the partnership with financial companies, and the Copenhagen of Iceland, have provided a similar concern, which is partly answered in the bill's report. In view of such comments, it is important to examine how proper distribution within the Sensitive Bank is ensured and given in good management. This can be done in various ways. One way would be to make a clear distinction between financial, financial, and financial stability of the bank's administration directive, e.g. by not sitting on a financier's financier. Whether there is such a course or not, it is clear to ensure that the bank will be sufficient, since the second bank becomes an enormously powerful institution. I find this helpful tips and comments. That's where the necessary management continues: It has a key role and must ensure that the Governing Body can fulfill its role properly, since it will be even more important if united. This includes the role of an internal accountant becoming more important than before, but it should also be considered for the possibility that the bank council can have professional support outside the Huns Bank. Here's a tip I find interesting, Mr. President, saying again by permission of the President: It is of note that the warrant given by the National Bank to declare the objective of the Icelandic crown to other currency is now being held in 2 g. on Iceland's topic and goals and projects, but not in VIII. a section on gangs, currency markets, and foreign communications comparable to current laws. No evidence has been made that a special crime goal is being set in this country, and thus this release of the National Bank is not surprising. It would be fair for this move to be at least convincing, for it is not obvious that any special call is to be made to a policy-making authority, e.g. Steady, under the same hat and other central objectives of the bank, such as inflation goals. This is a tip from a business agency. " By permission of the President, " says a review of the financial firm: In this context, the MMF wants to show the need for a united organisation to carefully consider priorities in managing financial management projects. According to the SFF, it would be unfortunate if individual units within a united agency made independent decisions about priorities in their respective fields. Such an arrangement would lead to inaccurate priorities and minimisation of effectiveness in monitoring. It is important that a united organisation make a comprehensive and consistent decision on the main focus and priorities of monitoring projects for the whole institution. It is then important that the Agency informs financial companies ahead of the decision and allows them to establish their views there. I also draw attention to what says in the review of the Commission's budget of financial companies, that the Commission of the surveillance provider has already considered the FME's management programme by 2020. Much is unclear about the business of 2020 because of the plans to bring together the FME and the Federal Bank. This follows many uncertainty factors, but the management plan was set in accordance with the same order. This article discusses a high priority for the financial company, but what I'd like to draw attention to is that, based on the information available on the prospective Shared Bank and FMEs, the SF feel that such a assessment is still appropriate - independent of the sector's resources that are being discussed here -- and it is clear that the assessment will not be achieved by the team. That's an important tip. It is being discussed as being independent of business management, but it is stated in the review that such a assessment will not be met together in relation to the timing of the day. This is yet another reason to postpone this matter. The review says: Therefore, the assessment does not result in the greatest outcome in the cohesion work. This is a very helpful gesture, Mr. President. Of course, there are many things to think about in this, but I restate on the fact that this case is so large and so powerful a body that it can't be determined in any hurry. [[The president calls.]] It is reasonable that this case will be postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u62	A respectable president. We will continue to discuss two counts of Congress, a bill to legalize various legislations due to the unity of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC and a bill to legalize the National Bank of Iceland. It has been observed in talks that all of this has a relatively long turn of action, perhaps normal, that it has taken a certain amount of time. I think it's better to remember, though, that it is often better to take even more time than to rush over and in some ways it seems appropriate to do so. I mentioned in my first speech that I thought it normal in view of the fact that these matters are likely to be taken care of, either today, in the days or later in the year, by postponing the appointment of the bank manager of today. In view of the fact that there's a new law here, it's something special. It's similar to the energy package, we know what comes in a pack of four and we're going to go for a three-pack of energy, although it will make changes without reviewing these changes. Here we're going to accept the change in the S.H.I.E.L.D.S.S.S.S.S.A., but we're still hiring the bank manager at the same time. I challenge those at the Board of Overseers to carefully postpone the matter until these cases have been fully resolved. When we discuss the financial system, including the World Bank, I think about it when we were initiating European financial, financial, financial, and financial checks after the crash, improving the system, which was, of course, very good. We then have a solution to our opinion as approved by the European Commission on the financial system. I wondered a lot about it, especially in the past few weeks and months, whether we have made a possible mistake in this methodology. Then I will stop even more when it comes to the energy issues and I want to examine them carefully so that we do not repeat the mistakes. Mr. President. Comments on a number of cases, including some factors, are given attention. Because they are creating something very powerful, a large organization, or unity. This is called for specific explanations for the work being done there. It also points out that the change this must call for some kind of economy, although it may not be seeing in the evidence but may have overlooked me. It's normal to call for someone to point to where you can find the practicality of all of this being seen in all of this, i.e. what economic management or saving will be accomplished by going this way. This has been a review of the reviews that have been received, and I mentioned in my earlier talk only the comments of the Association of Professionals. They are positive, but with a word of caution, they point out in their fifth and final line of review that there is a need to make use of opportunities to make practical use of the resources that will be there. What I want to draw attention to now is primarily the authority I spoke about earlier. They are being disfellowshipped on the third side of the narratives of the Association of Employment. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Replacement power and increased responsibility call for a multiorganized bank government. SE count the need to respond to the added power and increased responsibilities of the Federal Bank. It is necessary to strengthen and review both the responsible and the management processes within the bank to ensure proper distribution of power. SAES rejoices that governments are beginning to propose a multi-organized banking system on a review of Icelandic money policy. The order of the vice bank manager in the area of money, financial stability, and financial monitoring creates both a need for objection and maintenance of the increased power of the bank manager, as well as the ensuring of proper expertise. If FME is moved in whole under the Sensitive Bank, SA believes that an adequate distribution of power is reached only by order of three different bank managers, urging that this arrangement not be mixed up in the treatment of the Parliament on the bill. I think it's a good point to discuss the distribution of authority. Obviously, the chimney has to be reorganized when it comes to the bank's administration after this change, and it works, and it emphasizes that my knowledge of what I came to earlier is that it would be wise to postpone a charge of the bank managers, take it all in a single cycle, and start with a new position. Of course, some of the excellent and qualified people in the bank today may be employed in these positions, which, of course, are excellent, but then we would be starting with new laws and thinking. More comments were made on the subject, and it is interesting to note that the Commission's review discusses the competition that can arise and is warned against competition with private people unless there is a need. Under it it it's safe to take, it wouldn't be good if it wasn't properly used, it would be an intervention that I don't think would be good for a job based on the private enterprise in itself. Business advice also points out that a measure of unity is reasonable but not flawless. It identifies certain flaws that may result. Of course, the Agency will be very powerful, and it's okay to note that caution is given that the role can become a bit complicated in monitoring of surveillance, how it's going to be done when it's all in the same place. It may be possible to explain it in some way. In the opinion of a business committee, it is also said that there must be loyalty, including the exercise of power, within the bank. points out that there is a clear understanding between financial or commercial management and financial stability of the bank's administration directive, e.g. by not being assigned to financial espionage commissions, the financial emissary manager of the FESEC. All these factors are a fine price, and it would be interesting to see if they had been dealt with. I've been unable to go through the whole thing to figure it out, but I suppose that's what I'm doing, because I think everyone would agree that the work on the Committee was good, open, and honest and that everyone was doing their part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u63	Mr. President. I would like to put this talk to death on a few things that I did not have the time to consider in my first talk on this subject. In fact, I put it so that it would be disappointing for me not to be more bold in thinking than to want to continue here. This is shown in the article on page 19. 17 That the aim of the Ministry Committee's work was, by permission of the President, to maintain inflation aims as the primary objective of the money policy and the independence of the Navy bank and its money policy committee to use instruments to achieve it but to make appropriate adjustments to strengthen confidence and increase transparency. Just to maintain the inflation goal of the bank's almost one control system is not to my opinion what had to be done at that time. It should have further emphasis on other factors that could have made it possible for the Society to achieve its goals, not only to cling to inflation goals, but also to look to other factors. It hasn't been like that, at least not in the past few years, that Iceland's Secret Bank has used binding obligations as you would have thought possible. The banks in themselves have played loose, if we can put it that way, and you haven't noticed any tangible wills at the Secret Bank to try to control them. Everyone who wants to know how the benefits of banks have improved from collapse at the expense of this country's homes and businesses. It also knows everyone who knows that Iceland's money policy and interest levels have been first and last to prevent young people who have had to go abroad and learn ratios here again. This is understandable, since interest rates in Iceland have now been kept to a minimum. Of course, pension funds have lent to apartment purchases with a probable rate of around 3% interest, if I remember correctly, even under that, plus insurance, using a probe. As things are now watching, in Iceland, inflation releases 3%. In neighboring lands, they buy houses and apartments with interest that are at a maximum of 2.5How3% but without insurance. If we add that recently built facilities, especially in the capital area, are not suitable for, for example. First of all, we find that these interconnected reasons do not bring back well - educated people who have been in higher education abroad. This is just one part of the impact of the antiquated high - growth policy that has been run into Icelandic national life. She's gonna torture a small company, too. When growth is made up in the way they are here, only to pour out the effects of their high interest into the prices of their products and services. As a result, inflation is increasing, resulting in our loans rising, resulting in an even greater increase in in in inflation. The government has promised to remove the housing share from the insurance policy of collective agreements signed during spring, but it does not seem to have anything to do with it. This insurance policy is the main force to choke the public and companies, particularly small and mediumsized, which are the basis for growth in society in all societies. The foundation of work in all societies is an SME and they are being strangled by high-growing policies. Great people sat on the Ministry to prepare this case, special people in their field, and that's why it's so disappointing, as I say, that the goal is wrong. It is truly tragic that this is the way it is, and that we should not make a decision and take advantage of the opportunity to record the entire Surdal Bank of Iceland to cut down the root of the lesion. There's nothing to look like, except that we're stuck here with the highest European management interest dropped by 0.5% in the day, just too little and too late, way too little and way too late. Again, as I said in my first talk, " These management fruits should go down by 2% in one dust in 2015. ' After this decline, the growth is likely in a similar position to that of before the rise started. It began in 2015, which should never have been. It was a total economic mismanagement. Many speakers, Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, Marinó G. Njálsson, and others, chief of the people, have noted these things, but they are not heard. And of course, one general does not listen to the same talk four times a year or more about this matter, unfortunately. As I say, this is a big disappointment in these matters. This plus what I told you earlier, to unite the Federal Bureau of Economic Affairs in the middle of a series of warnings from a man like Gylfi Zoëgi, is not a good thing to do. I dare say that it will not be a long time, that this case will be agreed on in this rash, until we have to record it to some extent, either to a small or large extent. This money policy has been in force in Iceland since 1995, and it knows everyone who wants to know, and everyone who wants to see it hasn't gone up, not for anyone, and still people continue to move on. It's too bad that there's neither the minister nor the head of the Economic and Business Committee, but I have to ask, was it to maintain the inflation goal of the Prime Minister? Is it the minister who said that this was the goal and that men were to work on it? Or is this something decided by the National Experts themselves, that the goal should be to remain a unchanged financial policy, no matter what happens? This is really sad. As a result, and others feel that there is a need to postpone a vote on this matter, that these issues should be taken back to see if the time cannot be used to get a more efficient and bold conclusion that could lead to solving the problems of current financialism, the high - interest policy, has led to people and companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u64	V.E.G. President. We will continue to discuss basics about the unity of the Federal Bank and the SEC. I was reading an interesting review from the Federal Bank that discusses both the bills in the same report that I would like to read from it, with the permission of a president: The projections are submitted by the proposed cohesion of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC. The bill for the Council of Iceland is proposed to establish a new total law on Iceland's Federal Bank, where the Federal Office and the SEC will be united in one institution under the name Sendlabanki of Iceland. A bill to cohesion collection suggests the necessary changes to the law because of the cohesion of the strains. The Ministry Committee on Economic Affairs and Reorganisation of the financial system has conducted the management of the project, and through it a project administration for money policy, global response and financial surveillance has been organized by prime minister. The Secret Bank Contact Rannveig Sigurðardóttir, an assistant bank manager, worked with the project management. The bank manager and assistant bank manager were also meeting with the Minister of Ministers when the union was discussed. Since the preparation of the bill, the Navy has made several comments and indications. In view of the scope of the project, the bank still has several points to draw attention to both prime sites. Iceland's secret bank generally supports the changes in the primary projections. The proposed changes will reduce the defect that has led to the vision and responsibility of financial stability of the two institutions. Then these changes will solve the problem that brought harm to the nation in the financial crisis that the cower, the lender for disaster, did not have enough insight into the position of any systematic significant bank. In spite of this, the Navy feels that there may be a reason to consider adjustments in some of the early projections. For two main reasons. First, it is that the unity proposed here is not the one that has been most widely discussed in recent years, i.e. to unite national economists and dictators at the Federal Bank but to continue the SEC as a result of commercial and consumer protection. Rather, it consists of total unity. The late bank agreed to the arrangement at the earlier stage of the case as a separate compromise that was likely to make more peace with one another. Besides, there are certain reasons for this route in a very small country. This does not change the way the review shows us to do so. There may not be enough time left to negotiate the bill to find the best ways to reduce it. Second, it is likely that the probing of the bills will be more likely during such a short period of time and that it will be important to use political therapies to reduce the risk at hand. As I mentioned in my talk earlier tonight, it was a reminder in committee party 2. My section that the council and those in charge of the matter needed to take more time to work on the case. With President's permission, I'd like to continue with the review: It is said that the bills will become laws during the current assembly and will support that goal. How to achieve unity will then depend on the implementation of the united organisation. It may then be discovered that there must be some further adjustments in the law to help the Agency work effectively on the important objectives it will set. Hence, the following step might be said to take more time. The aim of cohesion and policy makers is that the Management Board of the Bank, after the bank is united and the UN has to include acceptable compromises between views that may be impacted. 1st That the integration will lead to increased effectiveness in managing the financial system, improving economic stability policies and long-term harmonisation. 2. That the unity does not lead to conflict between different policy targets and an increase in reputation risk for the Segressor bank, so that one part of the activity has a confounding effect on the other. The late bank believes that the existing law primary products include acceptable compromises between the above views, although other methods are also effective. The CIA does not suggest a fundamental change in the compromise involved in the bill on the Federal Commission and its Committees, but would like to call attention to potential application of the decisions made by the two committees of the bank, which could strengthen the management structure of the joint agency, lead to increased efficiency and a loss of reputation. The prime projection suggests that financial surveillance as a whole will be combined with Iceland's National Bank, whether by bank safety, financial or commercial monitoring. This involves the joining of all national interests at the Federal Bank. Some compatible factors of the surveillance and national eco-welfare should be combined in a single institution, but such overall solution is inevitably accompanied by a problem that is important to be mild to the extent possible. The Secular Bank considers that the administration of the united agency is given full space in order to manage its organization in such a way that it contributes to increased efficiency and harmony. However, the law will set aside the domain of the budgetary and capitalist committee, financial and financial emissary, as well as the bank manager and the three cash bank managers. The three committees should ensure the desired distribution of power and promote transparency. The external members of the committees can be selected for knowledge and experience that are considered to be most useful in making decisions on each committee. In this way they provide resources and width to make decisions. There is good experience with the work of a money policy committee that will operate in an almost unchanged form. The FEC is largely assigned the role previously used to the management board. The financial status committee replaces a World Risk Board and, in part, a financial arena in the present organization, but the Committee will make final decisions on some of the precautions previously available either to the World Bank or to the SEC. The committees have independence to make decisions, to have the means needed to reach their goals, and to have clear responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. Since I have not finished my case, I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u65	Mr. President. I'm gonna start my case where it had disappeared before. I was just trying to analyze a little bit of the reviews that were received through a bill on Iceland's Federal Bank after he became a new organization together with the current bank and the SEC. There were plenty of reviews, and I had only read from two or three of them and have more. I would like to reiterate my opinion that this bill's approval should be postponed for a time so that counsel may be given to consider more closely some of the issues of opinion that remain, especially as a result of many indications that it is warned that commercial Affairs will be at the hands of the United States Bank and the SEC. There's a review here from the Conspiracy of financial companies. By permission of the president, it says: The government's solution is to provide the most efficient basis for financial stability and to strengthen the implementation of national economists as well as support the legal framework of money policy and financial monitoring. The financial institutions are happy that governments are taking the initiative to promote the development of money policy, financial stability, and financial control. Because of its small size, it is important to secure infrastructure for financial stability and financial monitoring while looking for ways to make a decision that may reduce the costs of internalisation in the financial system. I'd like to agree with these last words in the review of the Communication Corporation for economic management. Together with these institutions, you might think there will be some improvement. But it can't be seen because there are four bank managers, Mr. President. That is not the way they are being manipulated. I'll continue, with President's permission: However, the main projections suggest some changes the organization would like to bring to the attention of the General Assembly and would like to be handled well by the Economic and Business Committee. Then the organization will also want to call attention to a number of factors that remain unchanged from existing law and that can improve the way it should be done, such as a lack of legal means for monitoring parties and commitment decisions. Is there a review of these points here in this review? I'm not going to read it all, Mr. President. I'm going to take it down again in the heading that says: THE EUROPEAN EUROPEAN PURPOSE OF THE COURT SFF strongly stresses the fact that this trend gives rise to the evidence that the word "FFF " is required to set up a hearing committee, in imitation of the committee that used to be employed by a financial agency that can cause problems. The development of a financial market in recent years has been in such a way that surveillance partners have increasingly received highly broad and even evaluable control and non-consuming measures in all cases on clear recovery. I'd like to agree with these statements from the League. They continue: Therefore, it is important that the Rapporteurs be active in the maintenance of higher administrations to ensure that the application of surveillance warrants is honored by the unscheduled principles of the administrative rights. And then, by permission of the President, they say: It seems unlikely that financial companies would use a lawsuit unless it is a fundamental or highly important matter of opinion. A seminar has the option to select members with expertise in the financial market, it is not covered by a large number of cases and of being able to work fast and that confidence in the cause is guaranteed. The Court has neither the same expertise nor the ability to work as fast as possible. The decisions made by an observer can be very burdensome, sometimes based on thought - provoking evaluations. It is evident that the decision of the Contestant Agency and of the Contestant Council to the special appeal committee can be appealed. As noted earlier, the treatment of such appeal committees is generally faster than expected by courts. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and agree with those words. I think it's important that a painter be appointed the best specialist in this field. [[The president calls.]] But I couldn't finish my case, Mr. President, and I'd love to put myself back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u66	Mr. President. I've mentioned this before tonight that with the change made in the Directorship of the Navy of this bill, one man is given a very great power. In itself, we have experienced that this has been the last few years with little success. I would especially like to mention again, Mr. President, the case that has been taught by the Syndicate Society of the U.S. Sellabanski of Iceland has been obliged to exceed its authority. It could be that he made a government fund that is responsible for the Federal Bank. It should be a warning example for us, Mr. President, and it should have led to some change of this organization. As we know, the Federal Council of Bank, which is relatively chosen here at the General Assembly, in itself is nothing more than a consultant party to the bank manager who goes its own way according to what he thinks, as we have seen today. This should have been turned into this new bill, in my opinion. Then I come again, that these excellent superiors, whom I would like to call, which at the time appointed the committee to prepare this case, are like the guidance or order that they received at the beginning, pressed upon them, bound their hands in some way. Because the conclusion is so far from being on the professional level of knowledge known to these people. That's a lot of disappointment, and that's why we should take this matter away. That is why we should review both issues again. We are to review them, and we should heed the fine counsel we have received in order to try to make things better than they are today. It's no fun when things come up like what has to do with the Samherja. It's no fun that there's an army of mediamen searching for houses in an international business. That's a big deal. This can harm and has certainly harmed the company's image outside, even the image of Iceland. It's natural, Mr. President, to correct what was done there. There must be some who accept responsibility for this. And I say again, we're supposed to take this as a warning against hiding so much power into the hands of one man as expected in this new law on the Bank of Iceland. A foundation that counts 300 people, one of Iceland's largest institutions, independent - under one man who hardly has to answer for his jobs in any way at all. Unless his or her work is advertised every five years. Twice. Then the job time for the person to work is over. During this period of time, two times five years, you can take steps that are not too good to correct in any easy way. So I'll say again, Mr. President, we need to hurry in on this matter. We need to postpone these matters. We need to listen to counseling from the best men who have already taken steps, provided sound counsel, and warned us. We need to listen to them, Mr. President, until the fall. We need to work harder and make them better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u67	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a change in bill proposal to correct a change in animal disease law and protection against it. I'm going to tap a large body of the commission, which is quite long and thorough. I'll only review some key elements. However, with the bill it is suggested that the current license system for import of specific agricultural products from countries in the European Economic Area be removed. This includes changes in animal diseases laws and warnings against them, food laws and the law on monitoring of food, cream, and seed products. The current license system requires special permission from the Food Agency to import meat, eggs, and unbound dairy products to the country. After the changes, you will still have to allow the Food Agency to import such products from countries outside the European Economic Area. As I entered the 1st. it was impossible to cope with the situation. Justices had fallen on the state of the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court due to the so-called freezing duty. At this position, the bill is being acted. Since the license system and the freezing duty will be removed, the food law will be in harmony with what the Icelandic government pledged to do almost 12 years ago, but with the premise that food brought to the country, we shall comply with the requirements for domestic food, with regard to food safety. The committee has discussed the matter extensively and has brought countless visitors. The review of the committee pointed out, including of Food Institute, that it is uncertain whether certain measures will be completed prior to the removal of the frozen family. The bill expected September 1st. In particular, it referred to additional insurance for pigs and beef. In view of the lack of food safety risks, the majority of the committees feel that it is right to delay a two - month recovery. The majority of the Committee feels that this delay will not have a meaningful effect on the interests discussed. The Commission reviewed that the agreed bill will influence the income of the national manufacturer. This requires improving the competitive status of the Icelandic agricultural field in order to counteract the contracture contractions. There is, however, a difference in the extent of this recession. Along with this bill, the marine eco-efficiency and agricultural administrator introduced a 15-compliance strategy to promote food security, provide protection of farms and improve the competitiveness of domestic food production. The Commission decided to provide additional support to that strategy at the highest level. Therefore, a minister and a member of the Committee will bring up an arrangement for the government to implement the task plan. By means of the Parliamentary Directive, the UN commits to implement a food security programme, ensures protection of livestock stocks, and improves the competitiveness of domestic food production. This proposal was made at the same time as work on the last case of delinquency of a so - called freeze family. It is therefore put in place by the work board, and the one represented here will measure for the synonym. The main part of the proposal was presented by a marine dignitary and agri-gri-gri-gri-grit, while contributions to the bill on cryo-definity. After a discussion by the Committee, it was decided to submit this resolution to provide Ministers' Action Programme with greater significance and support. I will discuss two procedures that will be followed by a work committee, where specific adjustments are made on several procedures. Since I think it's relevant in all of this, I'm going to go over it, too, right now. Therefore, the plan of action is in 17 teams, and I direct those who are interested in this matter to study the full and detailed report on all these actions and what they include. I'm here to discuss the issues I consider to be the most important and the points the Committee added to the Ministerial Action Programme. Article 5 of the Action Programme shows that there will be an effort to reduce the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria in Iceland. In recent years, worldwide resistance to antibiotics has increased. This makes treatments of several hazardous infections difficult and costly and, in some cases, impossible. In Iceland, antibacterial resistance has been considerably less common than in nearby countries. Iceland is going to be on the lead in measures to reduce the spread of antibiotic resistance within the framework of international commitments and on the basis of a public health policy, the Icelandic government will aim to prevent spread of food that is identified as antibiotic resistant bacteria. This should include: with a ban on the distribution of certain dietary antibiotics-resistant bacteria, the exception of the analysis of the position, the introduction of surveillance and in accordance with official policies for the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria. It is important that the most skilled experts are called in order to shape measures aimed at minimising the risks of antibiotic resistant bacteria in food. It also discusses the importance of promoting innovation in domestic food production at 10 but is proposed to set up a fund together with the AVS and the marine research fund. By uniting these funds, we can promote the emerging environment of the industry. In order to achieve this goal, additional funds must be put into such funds, while ensuring that the percentage of funds to the sector will be comparable to what it is now. Then the Committee proposes to add two additional measures to the previous 15. They, on the other hand, aim to review agri-environmental product to improve import and export status as well as to be more precise than currently available. That work will be completed in the fall of 2019. It is very important to get a better collection of economics to get a view of the goods being brought to the country. However, there will be a four - month act of special action on the decommissionment system. There will be extra effort in the surveillance during the first four months after the law's taking effect. After this time, the position will be taken regarding the progress of this surveillance. If a high degree of monitoring is observed, it is important that the management arrangements be reviewed. The campaign will give special attention to demonstrations and witnesses reviews for Salmonella and Campylobacter. The frequency of prompt examination will then be increased at that time. In this way you will be able to ensure the reliability of your extra insurance. We'll discuss this council resolution, as I'll cross all her teams, but I believe it will provide a more solid foundation for the national production and the public health of the people of the country. It's all our mission, I believe, that Icelandic agriculture will become competitive because its quality is guaranteed and in first place, and its quality is more likely to be even better than local food. Then I refer to the committee's opinion of the changes in proposals at each branch for support. Under the heading "Living the Office of Signý Kristjánsdóttir Magnúsdóttir, Óttarsson Proppé, Ásmundur Friðbertsson, and Jón Þór Ólafsson, in advance. Ísleifsson Isleifsson and Sigurður Páll Jónsson were away at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u68	President. I realize President would like to go home, but there's no need to hurry. I'd like to thank the Committee for this job. I think, as mentioned in the speech of two. A chairman and chairman of the Committee - the body of Congress proposal that we will discuss later today - is certainly an improvement. But what I'm afraid of is that the proposal and bill we're discussing here and the good promises that come out of the bill and the committee of the more part are still just words on paper because I can't see that it's been timed but a little bit of what's supposed to be done here, let alone financing all that's supposed to be done. I'm asking why. A senator whether it does not consider it necessary to have a timed plan. If we are to allow these laws to go into effect in the next few months, everyone will be aware of what has ever happened to an Icelandic government government that it will take years to get it all out if it is not put under pressure that it will happen with an approved schedule and that capital will be assured. So I ask, Has the budget been established for all of the procedures presented here? If not, how can it be set up for the council that this is a full solution to the concerns of farmers and of us who are concerned that the import that the entire legislatures would not want to attack will not result in harm to the local agriculture, animal health, and health of the people? Isn't that what the senator is worried about? Will the senator go into the country now and tell the farmers of the country not to worry about this, this will all work and be financed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u69	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows there are two cases of death in both the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court. That is all we have to do but to respond. I trust this government and the highest. A minister who sits in the seat of the ocean dignitary and agricultural minister is well qualified for following this matter, as well as for the rest of the council. It'll be a guarantee of funding to follow through on this. I have no doubt that it will be done. The committee has done an enormously successful job in this case, and we have been able to help with the most skilled people to prepare the current case and we have not received any support, any suggestions, or ideas from the media in this regard. There's been no suggestions in that direction, so I think it sounds pretty hollow to be criticizing and not trusting the government to follow this case. Many people keep me that way. So I refer to the Fatherhouses that, at the last moment, men can bring some physical criticism into the matter but have not proposed to offer proposals to meet the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u70	A respectable president. I don't know exactly where it is. There's a senator. Of course, all of us recognize the need for action. Was anyone questioning that? No one was questioning it. But I'd love to take this opportunity, first off. A senator apparently does not recognize it, or does not want to know it, and he points out that the Central Party has brought two Parliaments on this council that has the exact advantage of consumers when it comes to agriculture. The second matter of Congress, including That food products will be placed on each of the carbon lines so that consumers will be able to recognize the level of carbon when shopping. It was from what? Special Parliamentary Sigmundsson. Then we made another assembly case that is likely on the committee's committee. A senator who would have been closer to handling that matter. It takes to account that consumers are informed about the potential contents of the product in the product they are going to buy, that consumers can choose at the store of products that are stored and produced in places where drugs are used in place of a small amount of product used. Why took care of it? The head of the Committee, not of the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u71	Was it made up?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u72	Why was that not done? This is the challenge, a respectable president, we face here. This has been a good subject for consumers in order to inform consumers of the potential dangers - but they have not been able to deal with the committee at the time. The head of this professional committee. I reiterate what I said before, I celebrate this case, and I welcome the changes made by the Committee. There's no question about it. They're good - but we have to make sure this works. It's what I doubt, and what I miss in the committee's release, that these good ideas are all set in place, and that I can make sure that the money's coming. [[The president calls.]] I'm pretty confident. A senator to fight for the money, but I don't know what the money will be for a government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u73	A respectable president. It's nice to hear that. A senator trusts the senator who stands here. It is good to hear, and then I trust that he too will strive to be grateful for the work that has been done on this subject. She's not out of her sleeve or anything. A senator who has served as a marine eco-efficiency minister knows things about these matters, and I don't know better than the fact that it has been called to the highest level. A minister would be accompanied by the obtaining of the origins of exported agricultural products. It was called after it and it took a long time to get some reaction to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u74	Task force set.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u75	A staff set, yes, it took a long time, and I know that on the part of the employment committee at the time, it was specifically said that nothing was happening about it. [[Up front.]] Now all of us should look at ourselves in this regard. On a professional committee, we have been working hard with our most skilled experts to put the matter into place, and there have been no suggestions on how to handle this matter. Should something be done differently or in addition? No suggestions have been made on this on the committee from the Central Party representatives, so we just have to talk about it the way they are. I've found no other than a member of the Central Party, okay? Councilmen, sanctum, have been very pleased with the work that has been done to strengthen this case in terms of the changes in the import of the land and that we are strengthening the Icelandic agriculture to meet the changes that will inevitably arise in order for us to accept the food legislation that we implemented 12 years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u76	Madam President. Yes, although it was earlier that this case would come true. I want to say thank you as soon as I'm sure that it's done and how matters were handled on the committee. I must say that I was afraid that the committee, and especially the government groups, would go any way they could find to delay the matter, make more demands, make clear rules, sharper, stricter, as far as making it difficult. What happened, however, was that men had a very honest review of the matter, a clear plan of action, a counterweight to import fresh meat, and that it cannot be put out. I'd like to commend you. Chairman of the Committee for This. I am sorry, though, to experience that - and to be opposed - that the execution is delayed. I think it's premeditated, but I understand the viewpoint of the greater part. You want to give a certain amount of space to go to a better receptional operation - and again I want to commend the government classes in terms of their serious international commitments. It's a big deal if we Icelanders don't. And although in the management board there are groups that want to have the country most closed for import, including in agricultural products, they follow international commitments that have taken ten years of effort to follow, and this has cost the Icelandic state, the consumers too, the fortunes, tens of millions. It's a serious matter, so I'd rather say the committee has worked well. I was afraid of it, and in some respects I am still afraid that the matter should be pushed a little ahead of me, but it hasn't. This has been handled prudently, trying to touch the opinion issues people have expressed in their criticism of the matter. There have been attempts to meet various viewpoints, and thank you. But this case should be over, and it must continue and it must be completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has experienced the work that has been part of the committee so that people are dealing with the reality of these judgments that we need to respond to and submit to an international commitment. It wouldn't be good if we weren't there. Indeed, in everything that has been carried out in this work, we are trying to meet that there is a changed reality with increasing import. It's all within their policy that we make the same requirement for Iceland as for foreign production that comes into the country. I just like it. Of course, those involved in importing agricultural products naturally want to have value as soon as possible, but I still have the feeling that they will show a certain understanding that this case is so growing that they also need extra space to work with the factors that are under it on extra insurance and other conditions that we have access to. I trust the social responsibility for these partners is that they don't look into it even though there's a delay of two months. I'm just glad to hear that. A senator believes that we are on the right track in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u78	Madam President. I come here to explain the opinion of the less part of the employment committee on bill to correct the change in animal disease law and protection against them, the food law and the food monitoring laws, the application, and the seed products. And for the sake of the time, I'm just going to go out on a big one on this committee party, which says, by permission of the President: The European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, notes that the health of the Icelandic livestock is far better than in general. Because of its isolation, Iceland is free of a number of animal diseases that have been endemic in Europe for centuries. As a result, domestic livestock stocks are susceptible to contamination of such organisms and in few places with little or no resistance. The minority points out that the use of antibiotics in this country is much smaller than in other European countries and is currently in an envious position. For example, the Campylobacter has been able to contain egg and chicken farms and is found to be remarkable in the results of the Icelanders. The minority points out that it is important to maintain this unique state of disease in Icelandic agriculture and also maintain the purity of Icelandic agricultural products. The report quotes the article "Surprising the Sigurður of Sigurðarson, a veterinarian of Köldur, " in the May 16 issue of this magazine. where he urges the Generals to resist the bill, including with reference to the above moisture. It also suggests that previously unknown infectious diseases have spread to the country by indiscriminate and unnecessary import, causing major damage and difficulties, despite resistance and precautionary measures. Does he feel that the same is true of the foretold resistance measures, the consequences of such government decisions, and the elimination of many contaminated diseases have been well - costed and sacrificed. A Sigurður in his article explained that the bill also carries an increased risk for the import of organisms that no drug can work on and that it is dangerous to human and animal health. He believes that the pressures of national and national interests are being driven. I'm going to step down here to quote the comments of a group of egg farmers showing that there are many irreversible consequences for the production of Icelandic egg and agriculture as a whole. It says that wholesome egg products are as good as it will be, and the use of antibiotics is almost unknown for decades. The import of DNA is dependent on very strict conditions, and thus there is unique disease status. It was noted that the matter would need more coverage and that validation would be delayed further. Monitoring and follow-up measures need to be established and the requirements for non-inferiority of the manufacturing method above the region. Madam President. I'd rather cut down on this section's opinion, by permission of the president: It was further noted that from sources of medicinal product use, it would require supplementation of imported meat and strict requirements for leak-proof dressings, treatment of products, and transport pathways. A well-defined response plan should be established when detection of all-resistant or all-resistant bacteria is undertaken with permission to stop distribution. It was noted that the responsibility of the manufacturers and immigrants must be clearly stated in the law to ensure wholesome and penalties of offenses. In this context, the lesser part agrees with the views presented here, indicating that the members of the Central Party have proposed a bill to legalize the change of food law on panels. 1189 where data on the use of food antibiotics are suggested to be more accessible to consumers. The issues involved are certainly well defined in a report with the bill, including the issues of the common EEA committee, contract violations against the EFTA Court, and damages to local courts. In this regard, questions arise as to whether there has been enough protection for the local interests at all levels of the situation and the uniqueness of the country. As noted, including. in the case of the head of the record, the majority of the shares have proposed a synonym to the Food Security Action Programme and the Protection of Farms. This includes counter measures aimed at protecting Icelandic agriculture and livestock after the import of agrienvironmental products, and has increased during the course of the case for political treatment. The lesser part points to the fact that in the review of Iceland's Baving Association, there will be some of the others. ... thatthe organization will primarily oppose the approval of the bill. Otherwise, the organization requested a delay and action to minimise the damage done, either by ensuring financing and performing counter-important measures, and by hiding a local institution to perform diagnostic boundaries for antibiotic resistant food bacteria, and by forbidding the marketing of products growing in antibiotic resistant bacteria. It is attributed to the memory of the part that a cow's client's national relationship states that counter-improvement measures, whether it be frozen or not, must also be unrealistic for necessary work in their induction and funding to be completed prior to planned implementation. The smaller section considers the counter measures a fine price and, of course, supports them as far as they reach. However, the smaller portion falls to the above viewpoints and believes that the counter measures will not be implemented or completely financed, as the BNC pointed out, so they feel the need for longer intervals on this matter is not required. The minority cannot, for these reasons, suggest that the matter should be accepted without the time - set schedule of counterimproved measures and that their funding is guaranteed. Under the words of Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isafas, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, the Bible says: "Look! Madam President. There would have been a reason to refer to a lot more debate than there is, but here it has been sought to have the key text and short history. I especially want to be able to handle the medical community of Iceland, and I would like to mention some more good and careful comments that are available on this matter and should be thanked for them. Madam President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. I wondered as I listened to a talk. A senator, sir. A senator who quoted reports sent to the Committee did not realize that the reviews quoted were submitted long before the final status of the bill was clear. Those who have observed the case from the beginning must have noticed that this has changed dramatically in the treatment of the committee. I'm going to discuss the Senate resolution afterwards, so I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council whether he considers the obligation to freeze more powerful against the disaster he spoke in his speech than the schedule of action on this table. It'll be interesting to have the answer. He also quoted a fine man, Sigurður's Sigurðarson, and an article he wrote in the town newspaper. I think, unfortunately, the fine man and the one who were standing before me on the platform had not been able to examine either of them the final position in this document.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator answers, but I can't thank him for compromising that Sigurður's son was Sigurðarson in the way he did. Of course, he knows this matter and has no reason to question it. About a question why. I do not view the choice as being between the two factors. That is exactly what says in the review of a cower's client's relationship and is taken into account in view of the smaller section, the need to engage in counter measures, whether the frozen duty will be removed or not. That, of course, is vital. This situation has changed greatly as the committee worked on it. The counter-requisite action on the bill as it came from the highest level. Likely, there were 12 ministers, and then they increased to 15 and then to 17. It's all for improvement, and it's short on our part, absolutely. The question to my mind is very simple: Is it safe to proceed with the case without the availability of a scheduled plan and without conclusive evidence of the financing of action proposed by a counterprising programme? That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I didn't think much meat on the bones in the answer to what I asked. A senator for cryo-οry. There have been scientists who said that the frozen family in itself is just a delay. There's a lot of things going through there. Today, a synonym is announced in a synonym that we come up to discuss after the ban on distribution of goods containing multi-drug resistant bacteria. In my sense and hopefully most people, when you don't allow distribution of products that contain multi-drug resistant bacteria, products that contain Campylobacter, products that contain salmonella - we're not just talking about meat, we're talking about all the food in this context - it's a huge protection for cattle disease and the public health of the country. So I ask why. A member of Congress: Can we all agree that what is available, the interpretation proposal that we came to discuss afterwards, and that relates to the bill we are discussing right now, is really a good solution and a great breakthrough? I would also like to remind you that in the bill submitted to begin with from the highest level. During this series of 15 protests, ministers were in a paper with the bill. Now we have a synonym of 17 counter measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u82	Madam President. It's not complicated. It's about being careful enough. The facts in this matter are very clear, the fact that the health of the European economy is far better than in general. This is a fact. The fact is that Iceland has been free of many animal diseases that have been endemic, of every kind of plague, and of few diseases. The fact is that Icelandic livestock stocks have little or no resistance to such badness. Agricultural agriculture is thus simply a serious threat in case of action. The matter is to provide adequate protective and adequate caution. As I traced, first in my history and then in my previous answer, there is no difference that the counterweight action is good as far as it goes. True, it is not clear how safe they are, but the availability of a timed strategy is absolutely minimal and there is conclusive evidence that the activities there in 17 joints are fully financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-13-122.u83	A respectable president. It is now June 50 years after the first woman was appointed professor. It was Dr. Margrét Guðnadóttir of virologists. Margrét was appointed a professor of sepsis at the University of Iceland Medical School. She served that position for 30 years. Margrét pointed to the special status we had in Iceland for the land, a special place we would need to defend. It would be important for us not to give up the right to control our disease control. At the end of an opinion given by Dr. Margrét for the import of meat ten years ago, it says, on permission of the president: ▪ Finally, I want to remind you of the fact that many generations of good people went to an enormous extent of work to get Icelandic health and food control to where they are now. This happened, not on a day with an approved law, but with a tireless job. Let's keep her going. A respectable president. This bill is the highest. Marine and agricultural minister to respond to the results of the EFTA Court on the import restrictions of fresh food to the country. At the input of the case, there were proposed measures to ensure the protection of human health and livestock and to protect the interests of consumers. I have been pretty convinced that the interests of farmers and consumers meet when warning against importing food. The Agency's Group gave a warning about winter's bill that the same quality requirements would be set up for international food supply from the European Economic Area and for the production of European Food and also for the import of contaminated food would not be harmful to the public health. It has therefore been proposed a plagiarization proposal from a employment committee that presents a 17 - section plan of action. That proposal follows the emphasis of the forward party on these matters. The findings of the EFTA Court need to be addressed, and this bill will be adopted and supported, provided that the Congress hearing that follows this issue will be well supported.
