ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u1	The president was announced on December 3rd. From the Council of the Left move, a green bid for change in the committees of the Council, on the basis of Article 16. Act of the General Assembly. In the General Information and Education Committee, Árnadóttir Þóra takes his place as head of state instead of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, while Trausti Traustir Guðmundsson becomes an assistant. In a financial and business committee, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir will be a substitute instead of Steinunn the Þóra's Árnadóttir. The Board of Directors and Control will replace Andrés Ingi Jónsson's daughter Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, Kolbeinn Óttarsson becomes Fearson Proppé, instead of Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. Then, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfólfóttir will be on the welfare committee instead of Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son. Finally, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson will take his place as vice president of the European Parliament Committee for EFTA and EEA instead of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, the son of Andrew. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. The President has also received an announcement from Valdimarsson Steindordarsson, a member of Parliamentary Resident, that he has taken his seat free as the chief member of the Commission and Control Committee. The United Nations is expected to know the existence of this change in committees, i.e. End of story. paritaprevir Andrés, son of Ingi Jónsson, of the Council of the Left Motion, a green bid. The 5th issue, 1st. 14th par. According to Congress, each member of the council has a right to at least one. 1 members of the Committee on the 13th. There is now an available seat on the Board of Directors and Control, thanks to a group of Parliamentary Conferences that responded to the challenge of giving it a free seat in order to solve the situation within the framework of the overall meeting between members of Congress at the beginning of the ideal period. I know a group of reverends, and especially of the council president of Friðriksson Fridrik's son. By references to the discussions on this matter with the members of Congress that agreed on the Council Directive after the last election, the president proposes to the matter. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson takes the seat of the lead member of the board and board of directors. This proposal should be considered if there is no protest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u2	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows. However, it is not intended to find far into the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, justice ministers, transport and local government ministers and health ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd like to look at us here at a council just outside the capital area and ask the highest. Minister to the Government's plans for the Whirlwind. This activation has been a pacification for some time, and it's in a frame plan and, of course, I hope we still agree to use our resources in a sustainable way as we have done. Nevertheless, the plans, standards, and viewpoints of five, ten, or twenty years back in time are not absolute for today, and we are to listen to the voices that are getting louder in society. At the same time, we must listen to what the Westerners have to say. Naturally, they have the same requirements for electrical security and the distribution of electricity as we do in the capital area. Naturally, such requests must be met. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to whom he values the situation of the Whalers. Are we on the run? What will the government - and I think it's important to do - to secure electrical security on the West, regardless of activation? The future is always being pushed round, but we know that it is extremely important to the West. They always say it's expensive. Isn't it time we introduced plan B for this area to ensure the Vestafra power security? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Whatever the activation, what will the government do to secure electrical security in the West? What have left greens done within the government? Have they promoted the development of environmental ministers, that they can be treated in the case of Whalering?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, there is a question about the government's plan on the Whirlwind. To answer, there is no decision or plan for the Gravitation on the side of the government. Induction is an activation option of the new system in which the approved frame is established, the second part of a frame design, so there is no particular view. This activation is also not on my level; it does not enter my level any closer. Environmental impact assessments are completed and the project is in the development of the company. An application for the Agency's activation permit has not been established. For a considerable time, the land net has had connections to consider, a project that I do not enter as a minister. The key thing to my mind is that this is a organizational matter and not on my mind. It's unmistakably that it's improving electrical security, but it's not that it solves the whole problem, not at all, and I'm not saying it. As for other projects, it was a big step when we approved a resolution on the construction of the electronic transport system, where it is legal that the Landsnet system takes account of it, and there we give particular attention to trusting electrical transport systems in the West. Landsnet has a large project to improve the energy security of the West, and in recent years some billions of structures have been installed, which have been absolutely needed because the Westerners are on a boat when it comes to these infrastructures, such as other types of infrastructure, unfortunately. It is also scheduled to strengthen the transport system on the south side of the West. This is what's going on with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u6	Mr. President. This is exactly one of the projects that we have under way stressed, that we are to invest much more in the interiors, not just roadlinks, but also try to speed up future projects like a circle in the West, and we are to do so now, invest in them, including. so that we have the option, the real option of saying no to the whaler activation. I think the future is important to me that we have done everything to ensure that we, in fact, have done everything we can. not to enter the wild beyond. It can be done. It is possible by ensuring electrical security. I must say, it surprises me not to distinguish the political will, what to do. We know that there is a frame plan, and here are some ministers who have promoted a frame plan to become high political. Yeah, it's political, it is, and we have to have the courage to tell where on the frame plan we're going to prioritize. I think it's best and most successful that we try to direct our efforts into areas where we have already started to activate, try to set priorities there, and then try to do everything for the Westerners so that we can not only preserve the area where Whalers are working but also take priority for money and put it into place sooner, so that we can secure a circle and less electrical security. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's something we need to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u7	Mr. President. I'm just saying again that there is both a resolution on the construction of electricity transport systems to give special attention to Westerns and the implementations and plans of the Landsnets taking into account and the application of the Treaty is also a matter of confidence in the transport system. We know that there are dozens of megawatts that cannot be used because we do not have enough solid transport systems. Government policy on the building of the transport system is already under way, and Landsnet is working on it. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to a circle link out of the Deep, and she'll hardly be without the Whale Cremation. But there are many other ways to strengthen the transport system, and no one needs to question that, of course, I believe that this view and work, according to the fact that these infrastructures need to be trusted, like others on the West.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u8	A respectable president. Last week there was a serious issue in the news. What's going on with the Children and Youth Department of the Land Hospital? There are 500 children in the service and 100 children on a waiting list to be treated; children who need treatment because of a variety of problems, e.g. evere mental and developmental disorders. On BUGL, 45% of the workers are working in the field each year. Is that right, chief? Health Minister, then, what is being done in the matter of serious matters? There are families and children who need stability and assistance as soon as no child is on the waiting list. The pressures families face because of these illnesses are intense and only those who have tried. There's so much pressure on the buGL workers that they're getting hurt. And what's the highest. Minister to do so? Is there more to this than a poor salary and pressures, and is it not a serious matter for qualified experienced and long - trained personnel to go elsewhere? Will not the quality of the ministry become worse, and the waiting lists become longer because of new staff who must be trained? Poor ideals and pressures to staff at the National Hospital Children's Children and Their Families, pressures they can't afford at all to deal with the pressures they face. By 2018, there was an increase of 16% in walking departments, and a similar increase is being made this year. This is, as I say, a very serious case and there are 100 children, severely ill children, and this has been a year from year to year. Is it not time for us to see here once and for all that children with mental illness are not on a waiting list? What does it say about us that we cannot even arrange for children to be on a waiting list?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of this inquiry and would like to say that the government's emphasis on mental health has greatly increased over the last year, and this is not just because we need it in Iceland but because it's a call from all over the world that the world puts greater emphasis on mental health in general. The amount of mental health at the expense of other health benefits, so to speak, has been relatively lower than the level of material. In accordance with this and on the basis of that demonstration, we in the Ministry of Ministers have increased financial support for health care in general. We have raised money considerably into our health care facilities throughout the country to improve first - stage mental - health care, making it possible for children and young people to consult mental - health professionals right away. Psychological teams have been set up all over the country, and we expect to finish their design at the end of this year. I'd like to mention, too, because of what. A senator certainly points to a child's position, with the highest leadership. Social and child - care ministers have been developed for a very broad degree of consultation, both transnational consultation with the Generalist Council and also with other Ministers, Justice Ministers, Education Ministers, and those here, in removing walls between recruitment and institutions in order to improve the paediatric service network, and this also applies to the Children's National Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer, but the need to ask again: Is it true that there are 45% employees each year on BUGL, where people are fleeing because of a lot of stress and poor pay? As far as I'm concerned, there's up to 25% or 30% less pay and people are going out of this institution. How does this affect the Agency? New people need to be trained. Will this have the effect of waiting for you to grow? Long enough, they're for, like, 100 kids. During the period of 100 children on a waiting list, it is too much for 100 children to do, so something needs to be done. If trained and experienced staff are attempting to leave, the list of lists will not be shortened. What are they doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u11	A respectable president. As it turned out in my first answer, there's a lot of things being done. However, it is true what is stated in the question of the day. A senator's concern is that it becomes a concern when a large number of employees become involved in delicate service. Of course, it's all about society, but we're dealing with these matters from many sides, i.e. Build up and rely on mental - health services at first and second stages, and especially on improving the overall functioning of children. Especially has the Management Board been working on this. Because of the nature of the matter, it is proper to state matters. A senator specially aims at the waiting of the BUGL, to wait in general and access to services is particularly to be considered in this control group, and I would also like to mention a waiting period for ADHD diagnosis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A secretary of transportation for an agreement recently signed on November 28th. In that agreement, it is decided to complete the possibility of building and running a rear airport in the Washing Landsau, which would serve domestic flights as well as private, exercise, and teaching flights. This is in line with the results reported in the Transport Service Control Unit report on flying options in southwestern countries. It is out of harmony when you read this agreement on the other hand and the agreement signed on October 25, 2013 by the then Minister of the State and the then mayor of this particular agreement from November 28th. says that the basis for this agreement includes that the estimated new level of innovation at the Washassans will be detected in comparison with the existing airport in the southwest corner. To this team, E team 2. ........., is a footnote, and it speaks of the estimated number of days that the airport will be open every year. However, in Regulation 464/2007, for a airport based on Annex 14 of the International Aeronautics Agency, it says that a 95% supply factor should be taken into account by the number and manner of runway and wind at that stage, not some unexplained or undefined percentage of practical uses or days open to other airports. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister could explain to me the origin of this innovation index and how to interpret it, i.e. the proportion to be represented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þorvaldsson Þórðssson for taking up a discussion on this agreement, which is designed to try to eliminate the greatest uncertainty that ever existed, especially with signing as yet. A senator pointed to the 2013 Awake! Then, not only was a signing agreement on a training and exercise flight, but it was on the same occasion signed under another contract, which further pressured the city's area to the city of Reykjavík. That agreement has even been made. the expression, as we all know, that according to the city's main organization, the remaining circuits will be closed, but the agreement that was signed on the aforementioned date was about the emergency course. It closed up after the Supreme Court. In the main organization of Reykjavíkurburg, the rest of the 2022 and 2024 circuits will be closed. This arrangement is making an agreement to determine fully whether there is a possibility of going to the Washasse. These include the term "woe. " A senator mentioned a novelty index and obviously, well. A senator, in order that it is not inferior to Reykjavík and Cheflavík Airport. If we are going to compare apples and apples to making decisions about a huge investment in the future, we must have the same basis for at least, just as it is stated in some of the reports that Reykjavík's airport will not be moved until another equally good or better airport is available. This law includes about that. It also discusses national planning flights, medical and rescue flights, the Cheflavor airport, commercial flights connected with tourists, and training, training, and private flights committed to the state, just since 2013, to find another course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I do not question the good intentions of a minister in trying to eliminate uncertainty and try to ensure leadership. However, in this newly signed agreement, it is stated specifically that this agreement is not aside from the agreement between the Minister of Ministers of the State and the Mayor of State since 25th October 2013 that the Ministry and Isavia ohf. has a prelude to find a new location near the city. The same agreement also speaks of the closing of the 2022 North/southway and the time limit for this newly signed agreement at the end of 2021. Are we starting to see that Reykjavík's airport is going to lose the north/southway in 2022? Where, then, will training, private, and teaching flights be located? What will happen to the international flight where its branding system of airports will not achieve a 95% usability factor according to Regulation 464/007 and Annex 14 of the International Air Action Agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u15	A respectable president. No, it's just what this agreement is all about, destroying the uncertainty of whether the agreement that was signed in the autumn of 2013 offers a chance to close the city's airport. It won't be. This agreement and the report taken says that there will be a positive result of the Whale test for weather testing, flight testing and other environmental factors, distance and traffic from Whale test into the central city of Reykjavík and to Cheflavík and such factors, if you can start working on basics, prototypes and costs, and then make a decision about the Basin test. It will take 15◯17 years. In other words, in at least the airport will be in its place for the next 15 to 20 years. This agreement says so, but it was just uncertain before. A senator, the agreement that was signed in the fall of 2013 by a certain committee as a matter of course. A senator knows pretty well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u16	Mr. President. Yesterday we were told that at last there was a conclusion about the future of the Haraldur Johannessen in the state police chief's office, I finally allow myself to say, for he and his character have been standing up in this important office of police in Iceland for several hours, even for a few years. I think right at this point when the interests of the public are guided by his disintegrating from office, this is a good thing, especially because a few months ago, the entire national police chief of the country was declared, outside, and the National Association of Officers over mistrust in his work. There is also the fact that the Generals' agent had previously sent a petition to the Ministry of Justice on why Haraldur Johannessen had not been reminded in his job when sending a letter to a reporter on the office's paper for a press discussion. This reality has long, in fact, proved to be only a matter of time, but it is now at the highest level. The Minister of Justice who made an unprecedented agreement with a district official, an agreement that has stirred a surprising and even a requisite case for society. The meeting attendance makes it clear that an advanced State Marshal, who has been declared to be a dissatisfactionist in the Ministry of Police Project for the next three months. After that, he maintained his unworkable pay for a total of 24 months. My first request to the highest. The Minister of Justice is twofold: Does it feel that a person who does not have trust in eight of nine police officers in Iceland or the National Association of Police Officers will lead to policy plans for the future legal organization in the country? The second question is, Do you think that she considers her choice to be moderate and equal when it approved nearly 40 million? K. The expenses of taxpayers for this individual official.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to first correct a problem. Senator, I did not insist that he would lead policy careers. Rather, he did special projects at the Ministry, including police organization and organized crime. Then the idea was to use his much more experience and knowledge of the system because he's finished working for years. Is that good? I think it's important to continue using experience that's in the system. It may be useful for me to understand my situation better, but it does not lead to any work, but I will lead the work that is being done in the Ministry on police matters now. That's what I'm going to continue to do, and he'll be one of the companies I can go to a story and a plan. In terms of the contract, there is a general authority to negotiate in the laws on the rights and duties of the employees of the state. I believe, yes, a moderate and equal measure was taken care of. Of course, it is controversial to do a retirement contract, and both government laws and no authority can be given to retirement agreements. Regardless of the legal rights, these contracts have been made, and they believe that certain conditions, including those given, are met by certain criteria. that, by contract, the rights of an official are not under law and financial authority. The Kjara and human resources were consulted in this case. I'd say they're rare and should be, that it should be an exception, not a rule in the system. I believe, however, clearly the basis for the completion of my career with Haraldur, who requested it, and in this way we shall find out about this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It was exactly this, that, according to a statement by the late state police chief, he himself requested these retirements and told him to the highest degree. A minister would've done that. Now, by year, more officials have to resign from their jobs. They're uniting the head of state tax and toll managers, they're uniting the Agency and the camp loan fund, so they're setting a clear example in their negotiations. A minister spoke of the rights of officials. It has been generally seen based on 12 months of government rights when an office is canceled. This is about to increase the right one considerably, or almost half, so you wonder about the example of the highest. The Minister of Justice rests with this. Then I reiterate the question of trust, since everyone working in the police system has declared a lack of confidence in this particular person, whether it is right to let that same person come up with something in the process of springing up the police system and the police office in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You wonder if someone will accept the important work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u19	A respectable president. Sounds like it's coming. A senator then supports this retirement contract, where she wanted him to leave his office. My decision was that it would not be in the best interests of the police to put down the government marshal's office but that it would bring about a police council that responded to the tension we've seen forming in the system. There was a knot that had to be solved, and I think I'm working on it at this time. A senator compares this with other officials, but there are, of course, other places. We have a man who was reassigned in February 2018, so much remains. He has a very long working age, and when the law is that and the agreement on the retirement of an official is based on a law code that guarantees officials of a very strong legal position, I believe that this agreement was the right step and is satisfied with the conclusion. [[The president calls.]] But I know and I know that these contracts are controversial, and so is this one. Similarly, I believe it should be an exception, not a rule to make such agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u20	A respectable president. I'm kind of gonna have to follow this. First, I'd like to say that I didn't understand a word of it. paritaprevir Vala gave Helgadóttir so she would support the exact deal. Of course, it is not opposition to retirement treaties in general that this particular contract is criticized and that people do something wrong with it because it is, in a sense, extremely strange. Without wanting to make one person special, it's just that eight of the nine police officers and police companies in the country declared their lack of confidence in the marshals. He was not admonished, he receives a two - year salary of 1.7 million a month when he finishes his job, and his record is that he quits. You can understand that the deadline is paid when the person is appointed for a period, but if the Marshal himself quit, I find it strange that he will receive a two-year salary and above a three - month job on police matters that I feel has not been defined very well. There's some special job at the Ministry on Police Organization and Organized Crime. I understood the best. Minister like that before. I wondered, first of all, why would a minister have felt necessary or critical that the Marshal's office was on his salary for two years, in view of the fact that he gave up his position. Second, I'd like to ask a question about the work that an advanced State Marshal is going to do at the Ministry: Does a minister have no concern that his involvement in the task endangers his credibility towards the overwhelming percentage of police officials in the country who have declared his distrust when he was serving the highest post of the police outside? I'd like to start by getting a minister's response before I have more questions in mind of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u21	A respectable president. The Marshal did not reveal his position. He approached me about the possibility of retirement and a possible retirement contract. [[Up front.]] What? [[Up front.]] The end of the work had been reached before an agreement was reached when he approached me and this agreement was reached. Religiousism - I think it's important to seek out a variety of counselors and hear all aspects of the matter when entering a case, plan to work for a future conference, look back, where to learn from the carts as such. He has an extensive knowledge of police affairs since the dissatisfaction or discussion that has developed with the police in the past few months. Then I may refer to an interview with the chief police officer of the capital area who came to my point of view that it was important to make use of the experience of the State Marshal. Although she was one of those who supported a mistrust in the State Marshal, she had no basis for using his knowledge of the police, for example, he has. The vast knowledge of international affairs in the police department may not be the knowledge that created the problems or the distrusts that arose earlier in the winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u22	A respectable president. I realize I don't squeeze everything else out of this stone. Clearly, the answer will not become clearer about all of this. It's just happening, and I think it's really weird, to say the least. I'd still like to ask the highest. Minister only for planned organizational adjustments. I understand that a report of Kingdom Review has not yet been published, however in progress. I'd like to ask the Minister two things. First, why is there a report of a planned change before this report? Is that wise? Second, don't the Minister worry about making changes before that report is available to get in the way of that report? What is left in all of this is that many things are not known. It's all over the interviews and all the news on the subject. Therefore, it is not surprising that people prefer to learn more about how things have been, how crazy things have been, exactly where and what changes will be reasonable. To do this at this point, before the report is presented, it seems in context that it may interfere with what the public will be able to see from the overall story afterwards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u23	A respectable president. I can't agree with what. Senator on this. I hope to get a New Year's Report and, of course, it will take some action on this office. I believe that the police council and that change did not change much because I had extensive consultation with all members of the system and all concerned parties as soon as the problems arose within the police, in fact, about a week after I took over the office of Justice. There I saw that the root cause of the problem in such major and many of the issues that have developed was incoherent and uncooperative between the state police authorities and the sheriffs. I don't think this change will prevent other changes that may have to be made following the report or the work that will be carried out there. On the other hand, I think it will be very good to have a new police council when such a report arises to discuss possible and needed changes, including ... onthepolice of the police and the future of the governor's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u24	A respectable president. As I have mentioned earlier, I will attend the vote because of my personal contact with someone involved in the matter. Yet, I have been in the role of measuring that the case will be approved. I have to say that lately the discussion has greatly diminished my convictions in the matter, and I think that I would be embarrassed even if there was no connection before. On the other hand, it must also be said that it really is no way because the case exists and the fact that it is presented and its nature is all evidence that the matter has just become a very bad place. There are no good solutions, just bad ones. I'm very understanding that people are a little confused about how they want to vote on this. However, I thought it best to mention the above relationships and also to say that the same could be true of the votes of other Pirata members.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u25	A respectable president. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said before. How difficult it is for us to be in the position of actually entering 2kret! The Constitution of the tributary of the State, where we are going to take into our hands what is my conviction that is the case with the court. However, the matter is natural for all of us, a sad, horrible case that we will never be able to undo. But in view of the fact that here, we are now working on our constitution and even trying to get completely new, I'm sorry, but I can't do better than sit by. I can't vote by taking a closer look that we're going to bring this in here with the lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u26	A respectable president. Here's some good points. I don't consider this case the council's authority to do anything special beyond what a minister already has the authority to do, except for one aspect. It's in 2mg. 2.g. As to the fact that if an agreement is made, the members can still follow the court route. If something is, maybe it's all that's needed in this case. What's in 2 mg. 1st par. and 1st. 2.g. It should, in fact, be a general law. In this regard, I support this matter because I feel that these regulations should be general and therefore I have nothing wrong with being specific. This, hopefully, will help us to see that these things become universal laws. 1.mg. 2.g. is e.g. It's a matter of assembly with the Piranians, similar to this. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it could be extended toward this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u27	Mr. President. I'd like to emphasize that we live in the state's trimetrical diagnosis. It is fundamental that each branch of the government maintains its work and does not enter other projects. Thus, this case does not belong here in the halls of Generalis, and in that way political superiority is being maintained on this matter, and it seems that so many were involved in this very matter. Putting it in the hands of politicians again and again is very dangerous, and it simply does not belong there. The central Party's position is clear, treaties and decisions on the benefits and financial benefits of the government should be in the field of the government, which, if any, negotiates for the government, and the courts. However, it is not excluded that a future session will be held when court decisions are made if that is the case. It's a later matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u28	A respectable president. In view of the fact that this matter has been being endured for decades and has been ill - treated by those who have been judged guilty and in prison and with their families, I hope that by agreeing with it, we will escape for the release of this unpleasant situation, so as soon as possible it will end. That is why I will support this matter with the sheer hope that we will finally see to it that it will end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u29	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the General and Education Committee for payment on this case, which has been very difficult for these people. This was discussed by the Committee that of all the committees, i.e. When it came to this particular party, we were encouraged to accept this matter, to speed it up, because there was a disagreement about whether there was a doubt about the survivors, the partners, and the children of the dead, to obtain benefits. This is fair compensation, which in no way affects whether individuals will continue to do so in the judiciary system and obtain compensation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u30	Mr. President. I still believe that the government could have finished this case with more winding up on its table than to bring it into this council. I still feel that way. I am in a way afraid of the consequences of starting to introduce this matter in the way that has been done. Nevertheless, I hope that with the release of this case, we can show that we are finishing with dignity and with dignity and with respect to the proprietor all this difficult situation that has been upon the souls of the people as it is in years and decades. I hope it will be. I will vote with this case, but I would have chosen that the government had completed its homework on this difficult matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u31	A respectable president. For the third time, Guðmundur and Geir fiscal find their way to the Hall of Congress. I vote with the bill because I think it's necessary that this case be officially completed in the light of the Supreme Court of the Days. However, in view of the current situation, I consider the matter to be a problem both materially and formally. In substance, I don't think it's the kind of thing that makes it the most useful. To resolve the matter and comment on the case, the prime minister did not fail to complete this case in accordance with average and precedent and equality and development in the legal system so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u32	Mr. President. The situation is sad and has long lived with the nation. Nevertheless, it is the opinion of the court that this case is being handled by the Council today is not completed. In addition, the General sets a serious example by entering the role of courts. I am not expected to enter the role of tribunals. We should not set that example. We are not to be at risk that in the future there will be more issues for the council living at the court. We have a threesome, and we're just supposed to keep it. We're supposed to honor her. It has nothing to do with our feelings for those whose hearts are about to bind on this matter, nothing. For all the reasons I've been tracking, I'm like, "No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u33	Mr. President. It's even a matter of course. for the changes in income taxes obtained by the labour agreements in the spring that we are in the United States support. It is also true that these changes will not take place until the following year, and we are not satisfied with them and that dates do not support them. Nor do we agree with the government's policy of applying the child - reforming system as a kind of poverty granting under the role of the World Bank. I'd like to look at the Norwegian states by example to that system, and I'd like to point them out. Congress members who falsely claim that the Icelandic child - welfare system is in shape with the Norwegian model will read a new report on the BSRB website on this subject. The Company doesn't pay their vote to the bill in the whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u34	Mr. President. In principle, we Piranha and I support the changes in the system that have been observed here and are in line with the biographer contract called. On the other hand, we would have liked to see a different approach, not only in this particular change but also in the approach to the tax system all the things I recently traced in a talk; including, of course, the results. Would it have been good to consider paying out damaged personality discounts and other items? Many things have been mentioned. We'll sit by these payments, in part also for protesting changes in dates, when this will take effect. Of course, it would be desirable for these changes to take effect as soon as possible. Even so, there are some positive steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u35	A respectable president. What a joy it is that we now finish this case and legalize the loss of income tax! This is a great deal of interest to employees in the country. All of your main employee will see a tax burden dropped by approval of this bill. Most of them will decrease between 300,000 and 400,000 U.S. dollars. per month. You should know that this case is a key factor in completing long - term national agreements. This is one of the big affairs of the government during the term and a significant interest in homes. In the year 2019, an unscrupulous child reform system would have cost 28 billion. It has not been claimed that we have the same child reform system in the North countries. A recent report on reimbursement of income taxes and reform systems makes it all very clear, but what we do in Iceland is that we support those who are less efficient than are done elsewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u36	Mr. President. Here, the tax system is further entangled, contrary to what the independent party has regularly preached about simplifying the tax system. Data have not been submitted demonstrating how this change changes taxes between revenues. There is strong evidence that this change involves an increase in taxation for a particular group of people. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that the change will have some effect in terms of interaggregation. The media consider others and better ways to reduce taxes without inexhausting the tax system. There is truly a need to reduce taxes on the lowest income, but this is not to be done at the expense of middle - income workers, nor should people be deceived. Lowering taxes but raising all the charges against, as the government is doing, is showy, and doesn't benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u37	President. This suggests some of the tax declines, and it would be good to be able to support them. The problem is that tax increases are expected too, and worse, the tax system is being entangled from what used to be. Another three - step tax system is being adopted just a few years after the number of tax steps dropped to two. This means that a marriage can be mischievously shared, and even more incomprehensible is the permanence of character. For this reason, the bill cannot be supported. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has said very much about tax matters over the years. Many of the things that are going to happen are contrary to the highest level. Minister has said. I hope to the highest. Ministers are going to search the old secretary's carpenter, the good secretary of finance, and bring a prime bill that is more consistent with previous lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u38	Mr. President. When taxes are dropped in general, it is a cause of joy. In fact, there are no taxes in the next year. However, in 2021 a tax reduction is being legalized, which is enjoyable, and hopefully it will stand, hopefully the government will be able to handle that tax reduction in its own time. The fact is, however, that once again a recent Council, which is detracting from the system's income transfers, is under way. Perhaps it would be best for the government to acknowledge publicly that the growth reform system should be established because it appears to be the policy of this government. Children's right to keep up with GDP, but there is a decrease in the share of the income of the largest group, and there is evidence that taking into account interest in growth reforms and child support, there is an increase in the tax pay factor by accepting this matter as unchanged. That's why I'm going to be sitting by the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u39	Mr. President. Here is a very important step in changing the Icelandic tax system to greater justice. Three steps of taxation are being taken, and it is most important to those with the lowest income. We continue to take steps to correct the child - welfare system, and I trust we will continue on that course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u40	A respectable president. In 1988 a pensioner paid no taxes to the insurance agency, and the lowest wage was tax free. The tax has been greatly increased during this period, but it is now being attempted to lower them. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. The tax percentage is being dropped instead of just putting it into person's discount. What's next to me is that I know that out there are people who need this. Although most people need to be remembered and those who need the most, it is of utmost importance that those who really need these few crowns and that's why I will support the case. But it would have been much better to put all this to those who really need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u41	Mr. President. Ideas in themselves are not remarkable, that is, the application of the important ones. A three-step system is good if it's properly implemented. Of course, they should have set a high - income level, so those of us who are able to pay, while those with the lowest income, have a greater measure of tax reduction. It was said here about child reforms and whatnot. Harðardóttir Hardydóttir's senator mentioned new numbers. Depending on the number of children of 2018 subsidies corrected by the average pay family, the sum is 524,448, in Sweden, 443,605, Finland 390,675, Norway 327,802 and, now, hold fast, in Iceland, 5,505k, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u42	A respectable president. These changes certainly come best for those with the lowest salary and not for those with the highest salary. There is an incentive for people to achieve the success that they can achieve by reaching the point mentioned by the secretary of finance, $300,000, something in the middle of which. The majority of the population in that income range are bound to decrease and therefore have to work even more and more hard to get the motivation in that system, to get back to that lowest income from all the low incomes. I think there's some cross-linking in which there's not enough design. In any case, the benefits should have been balanced all the way down the income ladder, not cut them on those lowest incomes, but also for those with the lowest income.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u43	A respectable president. It's an expensive discussion about this important tax change. First, there is no change in the rules of interbody care; they remain unchanged. Second, child reforms are increasing, the decrease rate is increased by 29%, and the sum is about 5%. We'll put another $2 billion on child support. Some people in the North are saying that they pay more to those who earn more money in Iceland. But we must examine the entire environment of family members in the North countries. Do you have free time grants in the North? How much is child care at Oslo? It costs 60% more to send children to a nursery in Oslo than it does in Reykjavík. [[The point is, it's like...]] When we ask how the government supports children, we must answer all these questions as a whole. We're more supportive of those who are the incomeiest than the North countries. The union doesn't want the case because taxes should have been raised. [[The president calls.]] Central Party: not like this. Correction: Well, it's kind of a tax raise. And the Piranians talk about those under 300,000 bucks. ... butoneof those at 280,000 bucks. Don't pay taxes to the government. We don't take taxes from people with 280,000 bucks. All the taxes go to the locals. taxation is a tax loss, people, and you're supposed to be supportive of such a thing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u44	President. There's no problem with taxation. I don't mind paying taxes, at least. Not these tax reductions. It's just a chicken step. As with so many things in this government, these actions lack courage, imagination, and vision. That's the problem, that's the point. We need to rethink the entire tax system in order to cope with the impending change in society. It requires that we face out - of - date ideas that will not come about serving us for the future. These are chicken steps, it's way too small. We're not talking about big things, e.g. how we will eliminate poverty. We can do that, but I think all too many people in this room are about that it can't be done. I think there are far too many senators in this room, including financial ministers, who do not believe we can approach a community where there is no poverty. That's the problem. Well, we're ▪basalally drinking water out of a leaked boat, and I think it's an expensive debate. Pirats and I would have made it completely different. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u45	A respectable president. I found it practical to listen to the highest. At the same time, a minister of finance is doing well for the local community in terms of leisure and college costs, and they are very complaining about the fact that the government isn't exactly the means to pay for the community. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u46	Complain about taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u47	It's certainly a fine place for rural society, but the government does not boast of that course. It remains that, of course, tax returns always with the good. It's just like that - I'm sorry about your language. President - a low tax count. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[This is a tax raise, isn't it?]] [[The president calls.]] The fact is, it would be impossible for the government to oversee tax reductions for the next year by the same service as it did for the expansion that has certainly not been lacking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u48	The president encourages them to use their language carefully and others to remain calm. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u49	President. There's not always good increase in the number of people. I just wanted that opinion to come out. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, tax reductions on the population with the lowest income may be very subtle. Here we are at the good and remarkable moment to accept a three - step tax system that takes into consideration the income of people. This is a big moment. In view of the discussion here, the people in the lowest tax step are left behind these changes with a lower tax burden than was included in the three-depth tax system established by the left government in 2009 in 20042013. In terms of child welfare, I agree that we should continue to examine that system. That's exactly what I did this morning. It is crucial to reduce Iceland to stand out as different because the child - welfare system aims toward them less income, but most of the time, the cost to a child is higher than in any other country. I think we should celebrate what is well done, but we should know that we need to continue in that course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u50	This bill is making plans to reduce taxes on banks and financial companies to make them sell themselves in the rhythms of the White Book for a vision of the future financial system in this country. We in the Union oppose this bill because we want to look ahead, decide how we want the banking system to continue, minimize the public risk of that system, and then decide how we want to taxe the companies. It's completely premature, and it's also premature to sell the banks in the form they are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u51	Mr. President. The bank tax was set to cover the expenses of the Icelandic government and Icelanders because of the collapse of the bank. Before the tax is removed or reduced, important questions must be answered. Has the United States been reimbursed for what it laid out because of the collapse with interest and risk factors? Have the Icelanders got back what they had to put out because of the fall of banks? This has not been able to answer the government. Secretary of finance has said that he expects the bank's services to be reduced from the tax. There's no insurance, just wishful thinking. The middle party proposed a modification proposal at 2nd. which included this assurance, a suggestion that the tax does not decline unless the banks can show a decline in services. Sadly, the good suggestion was made, but it involved a lot of consumer protection. It would have been better if the Senate had fully studied it. The middle party doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u52	Mr. President. It is as the rest of the tributes of this government; it shall come again: but it is a good matter; for it has long been demonstrated, even so. In a fine government and government report. Secretary of finance, this is a tax paid by the bank customers and returns to higher services and a higher interest level. So it would have been most desirable for a cool economy if even next year it could have been removed completely. Sadly, the government lacked the courage to do so, but in the years that followed, it legalizes the speed of the snail's decline in this bank tax. We regalize with this, but we certainly hope that in the next budget, there will be a slight increase in this decrease.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u53	Mr. President. This is a reduction in the so-called bank tax, which, in fact, always depends on the consumers of the banking system. This is not particularly positive, especially when the same banks make considerable profits. It is hoped, however, that the cost of consumers will be reduced. That's hope. We do, however, have what we need. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's citizens point out, no guarantee of that. I'm not gonna say this many times, but the Middle Party's motion was pretty good because with it we'd have at least one. take small and good steps, could have seen the results, and then could take more steps later than it would take automatically. The tax is positive, but we're not supposed to do it so fast. We'll sit by because this is not exactly the right way to do this. It's too steep, it's too fast, it's too impossible to control. We do not know what the effect will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u54	Mr. President. In the foundation, this is a matter of creating a legal and tax environment for an Icelandic financial system that is no less than what is available in other countries, that we increase the competitiveness of the financial system in Iceland for foreign financial contributions. I realize that in this hall there are many senators who are not concerned about the competitiveness of Icelandic employment over their heads. But I do, and I'm concerned that this tax comes primarily from homes and smaller and medium-sized companies. The big business in Iceland can escape this tax because it deals with foreign financial institutions that do not have to carry this tax system. In simplicity, this is what it's all about, topv. President, the competitiveness of the financial system, the competitiveness of Icelandic professional life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u55	A respectable president. In an explanation of the previous case, where we voted to reduce income taxation, local payment, especially for those who earn less in the spirit of the Constitution, as a basis for the biography agreement, the people saw the prelude and could not support that proposal. Then some come up again now and claim that now they are opposed to the tax that was very necessary at the time but today is causing the competitiveness of the banks, the financial system, to pay higher fees in the bank. They object to it and say that those who are less fortunate in society and who need these banks just to pay higher fees. I have stopped understanding the context of the case of individual members of the council. Me and the laymen support these matters both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u56	A respectable president. With all due respect, this is the first time I feel like I'm playing in the puppet theater that's probably just fine. Here comes one of the senators and even a minister after another to say that the bank tax drop will probably return to the community in lower service expenses. We've just increased funding, e.g. To promote the Icelandic language, you have just tried to increase the budget for a book reading, but now the Nite Owl has published that it has not returned to just the ones who are supposed to buy the books. The guards haven't dropped a dollar. So far I haven't been able to see that even though there's something down here, it's over its head ever returned to the public's pocket and to those who need it. It is left with those who have received it to them, to dot and topping. I'll always say no to a decrease in bank tax, when tens of thousands of Icelanders are so poor that they don't even have Christmas roast. What a priority for the money!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u57	A respectable president. In the context of this, I would like to say that the state has virtually all of these banks, and in recent years, however, it has had a fairly high interest requirement on the banks, along with bank taxation and so on. What has happened through banks and interest is just an indirect taxation that consumers pay after all. The consumers pay directly to the state funds through the banks through high interest rates, etc. It is definitely a problem that needs to be solved. This may be a step in that direction. The responsibility for raising taxes is always that when they are to be lowered to reduce the burden, this does not result in a decrease in risk to consumers. It's repeated, and that's possibly what we see here, and that's why it was, for example. Suggested by the Central Party, it is a great privilege to propose the effect we expect. It is what we need to do better at a council meeting, to see the consequences of legal decisions before taking the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u58	A respectable president. I can't believe for one second that taking that bank tax down is going to get a dollar to the public. The profit of the banks is a gigantian which you can see, for example. in that one bank is about to build tens of millions of dollars on the most expensive property in the country. I say for my part that if he can do that, he can pay a bank tax too. To say one minute that this decrease in bank tax will turn to the public is ridiculous. It'll never do that, and that's why I'll say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u59	Mr. President. Because it's December, I'd like to agree with every word. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came here in his argument against the decline of this tax, hoping to catch up. A senator will respect that to me. I just wish that his opinion would have a greater impact on the government business than it really is. [[Well, consider this: That's what I'm saying with you.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] You see, I also care very much about the competitiveness of Icelandic employment, smaller companies and homes, especially. There's only one thing missing in a talk. Of course, a senator and this is the responsibility of the Icelandic crown of high interest here, which is why smaller companies and Icelandic homes pay two to three times as much interest as those of our neighboring countries. The execution of the bank tax would certainly be a tiny step forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u60	Mr. President. I vote with this case. We're going very slowly to reduce the bank tax over a long time. There will be ample opportunity at that time to evaluate how financial companies respond, and with confidence in it, I vote with the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u61	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes. This bill suggests changes in terms of conditions and calculations of half of the pensions, but permission to take half a pension came to action on January 1, 2018. Is it part of government policy to help with the flexible retirement of those who are entering retirement? In this setting, individuals now have the opportunity to take half of their pensions from 65 years of age, both social security and pensions, to meet certain criteria. With a decrease in the employment rate, while taking half of the pension money and social security insurance, individuals have the opportunity to maintain their relationship with the labour market, thereby increasing their rights in the job-related pension system as well as to collect further pensions by delaying the use of the non-new amount of pension instead of going to a full pension. This is an option for those who choose to reduce their work in later years but who continue to make good use of their skills and thus reduce the loss of income that can result in the loss of 100% of their jobs and start full pension at the end of their career. This is especially true of those who receive a low share of pensions and thus can raise their rights by delaying a fraction of pension. According to current legislation, half of their pensions from 65 years of age are allowed to be paid to those entitled to pensions and have received the approval of the person to take half of their pensions and to postpone half the pension. The source is a condition that approved an application for acquired rights for all pension funds and that the sum up of the right to pension money and social security will be to a minimum of 248,000 dollars, on the social insurance law. per month. Also, half of the pensions are now without income connections, and there is neither a requirement for the individual to remain in the labour market nor for him to reduce his employment rate. By now, it is about In two years since this option was legalized and a specific experience has come to the act of the law, it has been decided to provide several changes in the law in order to enable more individuals to take advantage of this strategy. It has been found that only 60 individuals, of whom 45 men, have taken half of their pensions over the last two years, and it seems to have been most effective in terms of the law's strictness. In this particular relationship, it has been suggested that in terms of the payment of half a pension, the sum of the right to a pension from mandatory employment-related pension fund and from social insurance must be made unless the minimum amount of the total amount of social security required, as mentioned earlier, of 248,000 dollars. per month. This can hinder a person from taking half of his life. Farmers in pension funds need considerable rights in pension funds to take advantage of the resources, but those with limited rights, e.g. On the other hand, those who have had low - paying jobs and especially women are not able to take half of their pension. The reason that this requirement was given at the time in the law is that if individuals with little rights in the pension system apply for half of their pensions, their combined pensions from the pension system and their social security system were not enough to provide them and that they would need to seek the assistance of their rural partners for alimony. On the other hand, these same individuals always have the advantage of applying for a full pension in social security at 67 years of age and thus increasing their provisional resources. Then I would like to stress that it is important that a insurance institution can be well instructed when people apply to start taking a pension before the law - bound 67 - year pension date is reached, where the so - called early pension will bring a permanent reduction in pension. This bill suggests that the above conditions will be removed with the aim that more people will be able to take advantage of the resources, especially those who have not earned a large amount of rights in the pension system. It should not be the privilege of a particular group of people to take half of their pension, i.e. Those who have earned considerable rights in pension funds for their lives but who are expected to be available to all who have worked at a job market and paid in a pension fund. A respectable president. As I went on to say, the payment of half a pension is now completely unrelated to the earnings of a pensioner, unlike that of other pensions in the social security system. As noted, in recent years there have been significant changes in the pension system, which is now much simpler and clearer than the system we lived in just a few years ago. I'd like to help us not get our system mixed up again, but try to keep into the simplicity and clarity that has been achieved by the changes made. However, it is in my opinion in opposition to the primary objective of social security laws that individuals who are not entitled to pensions for their income can still get half a pension, since half of the pension is in accordance with current legislation, regardless of other pensioners' income. In response to this, it is suggested in the bill that the pay of half a pension be paid in a way that half a pension will drop by 45% of a pensioner's income, i.e. in the same proportion as you would have to pay for a full pension. In order not to exclude the possibility of reimbursement for half a pension as a result of the revenue, it is expected that high-cost levels will be set which will be generally and the value of all pensioners' incomes income. Is suggested that the payoff be 3.9 million. K. every year, i.e. 2,35,000. per month. Pays a pensioner at 325,000 bucks. This will not affect the amount of half a pension, if the bill becomes a law, but income beyond the pay market will cut the pay by 45% and drop when a pensioner earns about 600,000 dollars. per month. Third, the bill suggests that the payment of half a pension will be paid if a person is still in a job market. This is because the original purpose of this selection was to enhance the flexibility of the people at their retirement and contribute to the loss of labour markets and thus to work longer in the labour market. It is therefore assumed that the authority to take half of the pension will be subject to the condition that the individual is still in work and to a maximum of 50% of the employment share. There is no suggestion for a certain minimum service rate, but in case of a very low labour rate or very low salary, it is expected that the government's insurance system will assess the availability of the employment and the work ratio. It was possible to consider previous employment or the calculated remuneration, e.g. During the past three years, which may indicate the individual work ratio and whether the criteria for meeting up to a maximum of 50% work ratio are met. A respectable president. In addition to the material changes I have attributed to the bill, there are several other changes necessary because of the physical changes involved in the bill. In particular, it is assumed that all amounts of money, whether in terms of improvements or income markets, are marked for an entire year, but not months, because calculations are based on social security laws generally based on the annual income of pensioners, which are equally distributed over the entire month of the year. It is also suggested that the existing law on the premeditation of pension funds for taking half a pension will extend only to the pensions allowing them to take half of their pensions. The situation today is that there is not all pension funds available to offer individuals half of your pension and that it is therefore right that the terms of the law are limited to the approval of the pension funds that the applicant has earned as well as to allow to take half of his or her pension. This is especially true of those who have earned their rights in foreign pensions, but it is common that foreign pensions do not take half of their pensions. It does not seem fair that such an impossible could prevent the right of individuals to take half of their pensions in this country. Then let it be noted that if this bill is legalized, a change in the Regulation to the flexible take of pension and household replacements will be the authority of those who have started a pension to take half of their pensions instead of the full amount of pension to 1 January 2021. Otherwise, the warrant will expire at the next year. If a pensioner gets a full pension so that he still has the option to take half of his pension instead of full pension, following the changes expected in the bill. Finally, I stress that this important matter can be resolved as early as possible so that the changes in it and I have traced my speech can become meaningful as soon as possible, even if they may have the time to implement it a little later than expected. Before I finish the talk, I'd like to say that the bill is done in good cooperation with others. The older citizen's national relationship. A special team is acting as representatives of the older citizen's National Association and is crossing the entire pension system with older citizens. He sent out a consistent accounting, encouraging the approval of this bill in the same form during the council and as soon as possible. After the discussion that will take place, and I look forward to participating, I suggest that the bill be referred to the subject. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u62	A respectable president. We're talking about the bill of Social Affairs and Children's Department about half a pension. That's the best part. I criticized the laws given at the time, as a minister knows, and basically opened the way for those who had high incomes to get into this system. But I'm still a little bit skeptical, and I suspect we're still raising a weak monster, this butt-scraped monster we've created in our social security system. That we're creating another complicated foot in the system. We have to figure out that there's an incredibly large group out there that hasn't earned any huge pension, and that includes most of the women with very low pensions. According to this bill, it appears that in each case you will have the authority of the insurance company to determine whether or not you will be allowed inside this system. I say for my part that I think it's unnatural in itself. But the reasons I understand are also well because these are actually preventing people from simply getting into a poverty trap, getting less money than they had in general. I'm asking a minister: Wouldn't it have been better to think this system a little different and just to let the cash market rule? Let's say a person with half a pension, who may be entitled to 240,000 bucks. From a pension fund to $120,000, you'd get to work until it was up to 325,000 bucks. income without any impairment. It would be much simpler to make the system so that we would have just a vacation goal that would have been in charge, not half of our pension fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u63	A mistake has been made in the registration of counter-resurrections just now. There are four, but not three. Senators who wanted to give an answer. Thus, the speech period will be one minute after the reply, but the minister has two minutes to comment this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u64	Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for his question. In his talk, he quoted that we were not looking, for example. women who had limited or less rights within the pension system. With these changes, we are just looking to be more successful in reaching out to that group so that the group can take advantage of it to a greater extent than it is currently. The situation now is that of those who have taken advantage of this arrangement, only 25% are women. With these changes I'd like to mean, and those who've been involved, like the older citizens' Union and others, that we're just making changes to get better at it, so those with limited rights can take advantage of this option. With regard to the fair market, they're being raised, changing them. In terms of larger basic changes, we would simply have to cancel this system as we have it, cancel this half of pension and just do something else, something completely different. What we're doing here is making changes to the system laid down and set. We'd have to take a discussion about just doing something different. I think the changes we're talking about here are just so bad that we can put our arms around this group and give them what they want. A senator was witnessing the possibility of taking advantage of this system, which is the reason for the change. Like what? A senator pointed out - and then I say, " The minister is the best man to live - is we because of these changes to become a larger group. '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. If we just take today's example of an Icelander at the minimum and are about to retire, the person's pay is paid at a pension fund. Then we're talking about 1 60,000 k, let's say, and half of it is 80,000 k. A person, I would say, will be judged by a insurance agency as having a right to do so. There might be a set trap there. I'd say there's a group I'm afraid of falling out of, but I could get by the change of this, I need to figure it out better. But I think the Minister agrees with me that this group is also allowed inside the system, if he wants to. It's weird to create a system that can rule out everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u66	A respectable president. As the law is today, and as it is done by it - and it is natural to act on that law - the group falls as dog. A senator does not testify under the law. That is why so few have made good use of this authority. That's why we're making these changes. We're opening up this group to make it possible for him to take advantage of this strategy. We want more people to use it. We do not want some form of privilege to be able to take advantage of this. That's why we're making these changes. Then, with the group that still lands on the line and the senator testify that the insurance agency is to be given an assessment role: It receives an assessment role for individuals and groups who are not in the system today, so we are opening it. But whether to open it more and make more changes? Well, that's the result, anyway. [[The president calls.]] There are calculations and jobs behind them. But I would just hand it over to the Committee to get interest stakers and others and to see if there are any other methods or changes in this approach would be more convenient. [[The president calls.]] This is evident in the case of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u67	The president asks why. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u68	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u69	A respectable president. Do anything else, perhaps? It is far too bad to say that we have the highest power today. Ministers in the very arms of the group's motion, the cost of intelligence, and anything, who state that only a pensioner can work the way that he possibly can and trust without being impaired but only pay his taxes and duties, as it happens. This bill has shown that only 58 individuals have taken advantage of the resources. - I can see that it's starting to blink on me right away. There are some flaws here, and it's just as well if there's something wrong here. ome, e.g. the TR criteria. The primary criteria for TR are missing in order to determine whether or not work ratios are within the rule. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish this afterwards, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer and would like to say that there are far too few people who have been taking advantage of this strategy. That is why we are suggesting these changes and suggest this as well as, in fact, certain conditions as well. As for the people that were accepted at the end of our spring council, it's nice to say that, because a minister was assigned to do a certain assessment of the costs to eliminate the impairments and we should have negotiated with an independent party to do so, we agreed with Capacent to win that assessment. They expect to submit this assessment at the beginning of the new year, as the Senate resolutions. How exciting it will be to see what her conclusion will be! However, here we are making changes that are going to put a better grip on this group and to open this up to more people than today. [[The president calls.]] - I almost got through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u71	The minute is short, the president agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u72	A respectable president. I'm going straight to the 50% employment rate here for. It's really just a guillotine for someone who may be taking advantage of the options, working 50%, and taking 50% from a pension fund, going ahead. He can't take one hour, not one minute, if he goes to 50,000, and some percent is over the target. What then? The bill also obliges the pension fund to grant approval and so on. Where is it right here and now, top dog? Minister, that the pension funds step in and agree to what is discussed so that this can become reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u73	A respectable president. Now we're what? A senator may not agree completely. Hv. A senator there speaks of a 50% duty rate. We're just saying that you have to be in a job market to give people a chance to pull down and be part of a job market and to take some of the pension. At any point when your age is set, of course, you can go to a full pension. So I don't see this problem as it is. A senator is describing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u74	It's only on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u75	On the other hand, I see on this great opportunity and a number of parishes for the concerned group, and I restate that this bill was working in good cooperation and good consultation with others. The National Association of older citizens, which specifically celebrate its contributions, suggests that it will be adopted as it is said in a recent publication.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'd like to do last year's answer to the highest. Ministers according to whether some kind of food, or guess, let's say, in the Ministry of State how likely the bill will actually increase the number of those who choose this option. I think I and the highest. A minister can agree that making his retirement flexible, the purpose of this bill, is truly a positive change. That's why it would be nice to hear from the highest level. Whether the Ministry was in any way capable of evaluating it either on its own or in cooperation with it, as at the highest level. Minister came on, the older citizen's National Association, for it would truly be boring if this change led to the other 60 steers to take half the pension and then it would be a true chicken step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this. At any rate, it is clear that there is no deep research in the Ministry on how this will affect all the major groups under there. I think it's simply hard to win that kind of thing, so it's a good thing because it's based on the fact that the frame we're putting through this will make each one put himself into this model and start thinking, " Do I want to do it like this? ' Can I do it like this? This will be the case and discuss with the employer whether it is possible, etc. So it's hard to measure it directly in advance. But I think it's perfectly clear that the sex ratios of those who have been using these indicate that we've missed it. In this regard, we are ensuring a firm opening with these changes. Because of this alone, it should be necessary to conclude that a change can be achieved. Of course, the other must be explained and revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u78	Mr. President. I completely agree with the highest. A minister in regard to the benefits of this change and will hopefully lead to more thinking about flexible retirements. I'd like a later answer to the highest question. Minister on what he mentioned in his speech, i.e. The staff that reviews the entire legislation. I ask if it will most likely be in the revision of regulations that will allow further room for the time when men can begin to take a pension and in what way. I believe that the end of this operation is equal to what's to come. More and more will benefit this right, I hope. I think it's useful for society and there's something that I've been discussing before, i.e. the wealth we have in older people who continue to share their experience with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u79	A respectable president. With regard to the work of the staff now considering all of this on a small scale, there's nothing there. In his letter, he has a very broad role, so, of course, it is in harmony with many things. As the senator pointed out, we want to see increased flexibility in this system. That's what was tested by those laws at the time, that it didn't have to be off or off. It also requires a change of thinking in those under and at the labour market. Everything that is about to increase the flexibility, I think, is just good and is always meant to be in the full - time position. That's why I'm happy with this bill here -- which would be special if I wasn't where I'm measuring it - because that's exactly what it means to increase this flexibility and make it possible for others to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u80	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this case, which has now entered the council. I have a very short question to the highest level. Minister and minister, she'll be at 3rd. The bill. It says that this law is acquired on January 1, 2020, which remains about three weeks. The highest. A minister made some point of what is meant by this article?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Of course, it is so that every time a minister makes a case, he would naturally want them to become laws as soon as possible. In this case, as we are increasing in the population that can take half of the pension, we would certainly want that to happen as soon as possible. It's just the nature of the case. However, it is entirely in the hands of the Committee what they want to do in a hurry or in what way. The minister will never say anything but that it would be best if it became a law as soon as possible. But the world doesn't fall apart, even if it gets a little delayed, frankly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u82	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Department of Social Affairs and Child Services for the counter-sponsored operation. It is now that this is the Fourth Conference, which comes from the Supreme Court in a short period of time. Minister of Social Affairs to be completed by the end of the New Year's Eve. If the law was to enter force on January 1, I would have thought it would be preferable for the General to have a bill to be passed on to correct the law for the time it was due to become valid, according to the words. That is why it was asked. But if it doesn't do anything, then the regulations of Leviticus will be discussed. change to the Committee. The one standing here, the Chairman of the White House. The welfare committee has at least one not to be given any intermissions during Christmas and New Year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u83	A respectable president. The person standing here would enjoy being here at a council Hall and dealing with the situation. The head of the welfare committee between Christmas and New Year, so to speak. But when a minister gives a bill, we naturally expect it to take effect as soon as possible. It's just general, and it's been in most of the bills that, anyway, I've put in and it's a simple matter to change a date. And to settle any doubt about this, this bill was the bill of February's Constitution, so we're just getting involved, including. for encouragement on the part of young men. The senator here in the last few weeks, and bring the bill earlier, so the committee has only a good time to work this case. It was expected that it would be submitted in February. So I'm just surprised that when we're presenting the case now, two months or three months ahead of schedule, the head of the welfare committee is still frustrated that the matter is not being acted on at the right time. This is entirely in the hands of the Committee. She takes this matter to herself and wants it to be settled after a year's visit. It is simple to change the standard of entry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u84	A respectable president. We're still discussing the case of the social and child-care minister about half a pension. There's a lot of weird stuff in this bill, and one of them, as we've been through, is that in the E-Gu. 1, par. it is suggested that you be authorized to take a pension according to the conditions where you are in the labour market and if you have no more than half the job. What happens if a person has more than half a job? There seems to be nothing to be said, but perhaps a minister could answer what will happen to those people who do more than half a job, whether and what recompences will take effect. Is there a limit if people do 1% more than half a job, and where is the limit? Also, it is clearly stated in another part of the bill to refer to the previous three years, which should indicate that the work ratio of the relevant person is subject to a maximum of 50%. The maximum is 50%. It may be lower than what I've already noted, we know that people who are on the lowest salary may receive about 55,960 percent of their pension salary when they are supposed to go to a pension fund. We know that half of it is not a lot of money, except for 170,000,800,000, and that's when we're down to 80,000,900,000, which is half of it. It's so small that many people will stop there and think, "Well, it doesn't mean anything for us to be going into half a working ratio; if the partner has 220,000 bucks. Mustn't let him go over 1 60,000 bucks, he can't go over it. If he has that number, and what he gets from half a pension, he's in a bad business. I'll be taking a very close look at this situation in the welfare committee. I'm also putting a question mark at the top of this one is 325,000. As soon as you're on that number, combined half of your pensions and half your hours, there's a loss. If so, we are not talking about half the money we earn to get this amount. We're on the line. If a person has previously had 400,000 K. In secret, he's down to 200,000 and he gets half a pension, 120,000, he's come to this limit. It's super low. That's when it starts to get hurt very quickly. I say in my mind that maybe we could have been compared to an average wage in the particular class. That would have provided a much better approach, but perhaps a minister can inform me of where this 325,000 kr. the number is here and it will also be 0K. at 600,000 bucks. I think the question is, what's the point, what's the average wage that's under there? I hope I find answers to any of these questions. And yes, there are few who took advantage of the old resort, and I think it was just because many people didn't know about it. In addition, on January 1, 2018, the law of these laws went into effect, but then the approved pension funds were not completed until September 1, 2018, or seven to eight months after those laws went into effect, so they did not even have the opportunity to take advantage of it. This is a full-year-old pension from 248,105 bucks. So we know that half is 124,050K, 124,052.5 exactly. As a result, 325,000 can be given. But it may be a little strange that if we subtract it, as I did, it's only 200,000 bucks. I feel very low, and I don't quite understand how it got out. I'm not gonna keep this much further, but I hope I get some answers from the Minister. But if I don't get them, I just have to try to get answers on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u85	A respectable president. I don't understand or reason why we're just talking about this now while a minister's proposal to give older people the opportunity to work as much as they possibly can. That's what I wanted to say. We've been talking about the complete delinquency of professional pensions. Let's see, there's not a lot of people up in the old years who are ready for the boats to work a lot of time, but we've got at least... Do not try to enable them or help them to do so. It tells itself, and I think it's said about almost every kitchen table and every coffee shop that leaves a person who stops working when he has become a little worse. He may consult doctors and such things sooner, and this is thought to be a clean, healthy public health. A group of people had their own figures on how much money it would cost to allow older citizens to work, they said it would cost so much money. The wealth is usually broke, except when it is about to reduce bank taxes and does not take enough water to access the marine resource. Otherwise, when it comes to putting the people first, we have often reacted here at the high Council that money is lacking. I'd like to refer to the argument for our proposal. It was Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, the fine man who won this report and calculated how much this would really cost a government fund. And so I stick to the material, it turns out that it would probably benefit by the government, and then we're just talking about a direct view of what local favor and something like that would give in another hand. Because, by this, allowing the individual to work instead of going into the system, without working, each wise man must see that by winning them they pay taxes in our common fund. There must always be nothing to lose. Now it's at the top. Minister that he has got Capacent to figure out better and see if the fine man, Haukur Arnþórsson, was right in this regard. Therefore, I do not fully understand the situation now, for the review should be made to the council again if the bodies of the body fall to March 1, at least 1st. That's what we agreed on. When you're talking about it here and the highest. A minister earlier said that it was best to try to do all this as simple as possible, I now often feel that, as in this case, the simple complexity is being made. Perhaps we should have waited to see if the party of the people and Haukur the Arnþórsson of Arnór had something to say, that, in fact, a government fund would benefit from it just outside the public health and joy of older citizens who might want and trust themselves to work longer. I don't quite understand why we couldn't wait and see to it. We could've skipped all of this, half and half, half wages and half pensions. So I'm going to point this half-and-a-half again, that's what we need for the bill, at least. as it is now, clear criteria for the insurance agency to determine whether a work ratio is within the limits of the principle involved in the bill. In my opinion, it is a significant fault, since it is difficult for a insurance agency to make decisions that impair legal rights on the basis of ecstatic guidelines. That has long been recognized. The report on the bill shows that if the ratio is very low or the income is very low, it is expected that an insurance agency will determine whether a work ratio will be within the limits of the law. As I mentioned earlier, in answer to the highest. A minister makes this new proposal in my mind a certain guillotine at a 50% labour rate. Therefore, it can be difficult for people at 50% of their jobs, e.g. if it relieves by a person and falls accidentally over 50% of his employment ratio. What then? I don't have this much further, unless I'd like to see that it's being handled, and the simplest and most practical follow-up and that's what I know about the most lengthy and human beings of our senior citizens. If there are some who deserve it, I think it's them, that they're allowed to work at their leisure, free of this endless demented madness that I think is here, and this custody stuff, when it doesn't cost a fortune. It doesn't even have to be calculated. A person who prefers to take from a pension fund and blah, blah, blah, blah, don't work at all, just doesn't pay taxes on the job he didn't win. On the other hand, if he was to work and not even take out of his pension fund, not right away, he'd pay taxes. Better if necessary, tops. Minister, that's what I'm saying. This is even worse than this child's step, the little step we took in the tax fall earlier. I wanted to step down lightly, as easy as I am, and do it really in style and let older citizens work and pay taxes and participate if they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u86	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here to thank you for this discussion and answer the questions that were addressed to me, especially about how we found out 50%. When you're talking about taking part of a pension, you have to pull the line somewhere. Fifty percent was right? Are you supposed to be 60% or 55%? What was seen there was even. that this is the standard used in ER. It speaks of 50% of a job when talking about taking a pension. You could say that we're looking at what's going on in the pensions, and we're getting along a little bit, and we're having it talk more. Of course, if it should be 50% or 55%, we are talking about taking part of a pension. There's a line to be drawn from somewhere. But where the number is, there is a exchange of opinions about it. It was looked to as a reference to the Penitentiary Fund of the State. Then asked why. A senator to find out how we would have found out 600,000 bucks. ... and35,000crowds. 600,000 bucks. is simply a median of 300,000 k. 50% of the median pay is given, and it adds 25,000. which are the common holiday goal. That was the number of the 325,000. Checked out. 600,000 bucks. the median pay is 300,000, the median pay is 50%, and then it adds 25,000. So these figures have explanations and backgrounds. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Sæland Goland came in and did most of the thing that the people's party suggested and agreed to at the council, it's different from what's being discussed here because we're just talking about half a pension. The group's case bowed to the masquerade. There we are simply working according to the exact Synod arrangement proposed by the members of the people and approved at the council. We've already made a deal with an independent party, who's taking it out, as the synopsis made it clear, that we should hire an independent party to take it out. If this was shown by an independent assessment that the cost was no for a government fund, then a minister should present a bill at the spring council. So we're just working on it. Capacent's findings will begin at the beginning of the new year, so we will be able to live up to what the senators promised at the council with all paid votes. Then I just want to thank you for the discussion and encourage the committee to do fine things in these matters as well as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in health care law, but the bill is proposed to set health care laws to policy adopted by the General Assembly in June. It is thus planned that health care legislation will reflect the emphasis that has already been approved at the council and show itself in a health policy. The objective of the bill is to better define the level of service, role, and responsibility of the health institutions of the country, thereby providing a solid basis for the setting of health care in the country and ensure that the country has access to the best service. In addition, the bill is designed to simplify the law and make it more accessible. Health policy has shaped a vision for the future of Icelandic health care until 2030. One of the aims of the policy is to create a global system designed to ensure continuous service to users at their appropriate service stage and to take care of practicality and balance when providing health care. For this purpose medical care should include defined as first, second and third degree healthcare. This shift is in line with the WHO definition of health care. In current laws, health care is defined as a public or medical service, but such definitions of health care are generally restricted, where health care is indeed a major part of a specialised field. It should be noted, however, that although health care is defined at a certain stage, the classification may vary according to the nature and circumstances of the individual. Rehabilitation is e.g. can be provided at any medical level, but the classification will depend on the quality of the service and on the location of the individual. Under the first degree of health care, all services are provided at clinics. This includes treatment of diseases, charity services, health care and prevention and emergency and accidents, to name something. Health care is designed to play a prominent role in health care for the country and should be the first place in the medical system. The first degree of health care should ensure that the people of the country have a global health care programme as close as possible to their local habitats, but in this context it should be considered that long-term health care and efficient transportation to improve access to those living in the more scattered areas of the country to health care. A second degree of health care needs to be controlled by patients, but other steps are meant to be taken when the patient's health care needs cannot be met or by other providers of the first degree of health care. Second - degree services are given in hospitals around the country, in healthcare professionals' clinics, and in specialised procedures. All countries must have access to second-degree health services and there is an important role in Iceland's health insurance as buying the service on behalf of the Icelandic state. The development of the last few years in the capital area has led to a large supply of second - degree health services by experts at private work stations. However, this service has been provided in hospitals or with special agreements with specialist physicians in the country. The objective is to ensure access to separate services in particular in order to ensure the support of the National Hospital and Hospital at Akureyri for Health Centres in the country. Under grade 3 medical care, there is a special service that requires both specific skills and often high - tech techniques and expensive medications. It also requires bioavailability in intensive care. In Iceland this service is usually confined to a land hospital, but in some respects it is also served at the Akureyri Hospital. In addition, the bill suggests that standards of health care laws will be changed. In current laws, there is not only the role and responsibility of the directors of health institutions but also the internal work and organization of institutions, such as the role of head doctors, head of departments, and other professionals. It is then decreed that directors order the Commission and how it should be organized. In addition, it is in accordance with local legislation that a minister should confirm the proposals of the director of the medical facility that the Agency's shipship is under control. The medical policy stresses the well-defined responsibility and authority of the health institutions and also points to the distribution of power so that the head of the health care institution should determine how to reach the targets set out in a letter to him from a minister and the role of the Agency, as outlined in the Regulation. Thus, open - minded health care laws impose tighter limits on health - care professionals than the health policy expects. These changes are aimed at ensuring that the director can take and should take full responsibility for the management and organization of the Agency. The bill contains provisions for the Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, but in the current law, the law contains detailed instructions. Health care professionals laws are structured for healthcare professionals in the country and require that measures such as the objective and role of the health institutions be set out in regulations such as regulations. The thought behind the above changes is not to make any material changes in institutions or obligations that are actually involved, but if the bill is that the law will set up regulations that will address the factors beyond what the bill does. A respectable president. Finally, in the bill it is suggested that in all medical institutions, the joint staff of professional health professionals who operate in a controlled institution should be employed, but in a state of law, a university hospital and a teaching hospital should be employed by a health care professional. The bill thus includes the change that in every state-based medical facility, it should be a practical guide and that it should be made up of the professions employed within the relevant organisation. The minister of the health care provider is then obliged to set in the Regulation further instructions on the role and order of the designated profession. One aim of health policy is that health care should be characterized by teamwork and aim to ensure that cooperation between institutions, teamwork, and a multidisciplinary approach to healthcare professionals with the objective of ensuring quality and compatibility in the ministry. Thus it can be said that in this respect medical legislation is being brought up to the present time, since each healthcare professional has its place in a well - established health care system. Standards in the current medical board that must be consulted for decisions regarding health care and nursing care and which are not consistent with the objective of the health policy involved in multidisciplinary work and teamwork. These changes are suggested to seek that the health - care professions cooperate with one another with the goal of getting patients' best service. In this context, it is appropriate that medical advice and nursing advice be submitted in a conventional sense, but instead of them, there is one common professional professional health care professional at any medical institution for consultation. The Service Committee is aimed at supporting and counselling health care when it comes to important decisions involving both internal and health care procedures. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. would therefore be referred to the welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u88	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of the bill in the 1st. There's one thing I've been wondering because now it's a whole-scale policy and it's congratulations, even though you can never agree all over the world, we're the top ones. Minister not yet within the same category, not yet at least What I'm wondering, because I am, what am I to say, a country-in-the-land country standin' together as we're doing, Mountain-in-the-ground, and I've got a lot of news about it--I'm not gonna talk about ambulances, use probe, not now, that's gonna happen, next time, some time later. This discusses the first phase, phase two, and phase three services. The first step is almost the cost of profit because as more people come to you, you will be paid for the individual patient. I have wondered that even individuals who are really ill at heart and who clearly need to go straight to second stage, hospital service, middleer to hospital at the Sports Hospital in Sports Hospital, to get from the anticipated slides. Now we're just about 1st. I wondered if a minister might have imagined something to prevent this from happening because if a corpse does, it can just be life-threatening. It's very important to at least When the first help comes, no matter how many half-hours it is from Sigluvær or Dalvík, for example, to Ólafurfjörður, if it is at least evaluated without carefully considering this factor, whether the person needs to go straight to the hospital in Akureyri for services. I know it's the highest. Minister understands what I mean. This is what I've been thinking. I'm worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, it is of utmost importance, and this is one of the main points discussed in the medical conference that the funding of health care is so thought that it reflects the real need for service. That is a challenge. Then we are actually turning away from the thought that there is one fixed number to meet all the needs and that it is so relevant to the institution to find out. This takes time and is one of the steps needed to take until 2030. Today, the armitarian model of health care in the capital area has taken considerable time to prove itself, as it were, and it has proved to be very good, if the leadership of health care in the capital area can be determined. What we're doing right now in 2020 is that we're driving a test drive or a Obscurial, so to speak, comparable to the national model, even though we're tracking how much we need to look at other factors in the country than we do here in the capital area. This is especially true of them. A candidate mentions, who is removed from the ministry, which actually applies a completely different law than the one here, and much less to the second - stage ministry, which may be different in the country where the ministry is otherwise central, as it were. Of course, it is important, in this matter and also in that instance. A senator noted, that the funding model, no matter how it is, whether in contract with an independent agent or if it is an DRG for a land hospital or a financing model for health care, is such that it is a leader in the right direction and is consistent with health policy, improving the service, and increasing safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u90	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister who gave me a hearty reply that made me very happy. It is obvious that she has her finger on her pulse, since it is one thing to try the model here and analyze the need for service in this area or possibly in small rural areas in a country where, as the highest possible. A minister himself pointed out, may be quite a distance from place to place. If you first hit a health care facility, you may need to drive less than an hour and a half to the next place to get the attention you need. So, yes, I hear a minister has his finger on his pulse. I fully appreciate that, of course, this project is huge and takes time. But I'm glad she has her eyes wide open and her finger on her pulse and hopes that it will turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's encouragement, and I know that although it is not yet in the same category as I am, we share interest in good service for the whole country. I would like to say that it is my heartfelt stand on health care structure to improve the quality of the service in the country. Then I'm talking about improving health care options, strengthening the mental - health teams around the country, improving their telecommunications and providing clear guidance on emergency transport, including medical flights. Now I was the first to mention an ambulance by reason of the river. A senator didn't get into it. But we are now renewing the ambulance fleet, which was naturally a long time ago. I'm expecting a course and a plan of action on the hospital transport in the next few weeks and I hope that we can take a practical and important step because that is one of the most important factors we have in our power to level national access to health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u92	Mr. President. It's not gonna be a long speech, but I guess I'll have to follow the rules that the President has decided you can't answer your own party. I have to come up to two things, but first I want to mention that it is very important that, after we set our health policy, a minister will bring this adjustment to the law that covers the points that apply in the course of health care. I think it's very important and exemplary. I'd like to think about two possibilities, maybe two questions. First of all, it's about 4. It speaks of the first - degree service to be carried out by health care centers, and I agree completely with that. However, I wondered if the article is a little too narrow that in some cases, and especially in the country, as noted earlier, it may be wise to keep it a little wider, so that in some cases it may be possible to form a medical service or some service that might occur elsewhere, even though there was a medical center. I just wanted to say something. Finally about 10. ... abouttheproblems. I know the discussion on the subject well, and I was fortunate enough to be part of the Committee that originally composed this law, i.e. Law No. 40/2007. It was a three-year job, and it was really fun. This discussion was held, and the committee wanted to take in the right direction, but there was considerable opposition at the time. The path of current health laws had already gone. I allow myself to expect that this time there may be a similar concern. Then I wondered, " Could there be some kind of authority to answer their concerns?'And maybe especially in those institutions where there are uniform groups of employees?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u93	A respectable president. Because it was not an answer at all, I'm not answering it at all. Senator. I appreciate the experience. A senator's work ethic is exactly the case, and I think it is important that he also knows well the means of health care and understands and is very well aware of the discussion that existed in 2007. I'm going to assume that there's a considerable amount of water coming to the sea since 2007, and most important, that we've placed ourselves in a clear manner in health policy, and we've both talked clearly about the importance of reducing the central management of health care and making sure that each one of us has the authority and is responsible for it at the same time. The discussion that has been done over the past few years, and not just in this country but around the world, with increased emphasis on teamwork and the importance of cross-cutting approach in health care, has changed significantly since 2007, although it has not been longer than that. It gives me reason to think, as well as a conversation with a number of people on the field, that the arrangement proposed here will not meet the same opposition that took place in 2007. However, it is reasonable to assume that there are regulations and that it is assumed that a minister can guide the combinations of such measures and how they are planned, etc. ... sotheexpansion is under there. To think that it is really just the two traditional health care institutions, the doctor and nurse, who are involved in this important task to support professional and administrative decision making at the head, remains from an old age. I believe that, as with health care, we have come to update health - care legislation to our modern day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u94	A respectable president. I recommend here for a synonym and then later today the second motion, which is the focus of the 202020/2034. This proposal is an action program for the first five years, which is part of and within the framework of the strategy and perhaps part of it. As a result, I will inevitably discuss both at once. On February 7, 2019, transport plans were adopted for the 2019-2023 and 20191⁄233 were adopted at the General Assembly. The majority of environmental and transport committees suggested a re-evaluation of transport plans until the legislation assumes, at least every three years. First, based on the assessment of the need for national transport, second, work was to expand transport contracts in the capital area and third, due to a review of the future road funding. The Council of Transport did a proposal for transport with this proposal for action and, in the light of a new financial strategy, the latest, the increase of funds has been made since the approval of a transport programme. In addition, the transport treaty, which is the result of a work force on transport funding, new air traffic policy, new government policy on public transport, the results of a group of projects on the land of the East as well as the results of an assignment group on the treatment of the Sunway. As a result, this transport program is about a number of special aspects, and perhaps our main concern is that it is an update to a current program. So it is that the contribution is unusually short - lived, and most of all the above points are considered. In October, a proposal for transportation was proposed in open consultations with the board of consultations. A number of comments came over 80, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all those who sent in a review, for the majority of the narratives were both vivid and informative. After the comments, a point arose. Some of them affect the proposals presented here, but others may be more useful later, such as the next review of both transport and then financial plans. The first five years of the budget will take into account Congress resolution on budget 2020,2024. The agreed financial programme provides a significantly greater budget for transport than has been in recent years. However, in the years 20222/2024, expenses for the new road system are expected to be 1.5 billion dollars. ... beyonda financialprogram. So we need more money. As a consequence, the budget for transport is expected to be about 637 billion - 560 going to the roadway - over the five - year period, some 170 billion. The financial program provides an increase of about 4 billion each year in the number of roads between 2020 and 2,202024. The services and maintenance of the road system are increased according to the current programme. Thus, the service is increased by 640 million each year and is sustained by some 500 million each year. A total of 15 billion for maintenance and service are to be looked forward to the 15 - year period of the entire year, i.e. About 1 billion a year. In addition, costs for the work programme have increased from the current schedule, but the index estimates calculated by the Road Type increased by less than 9% between estimates. This has a profound effect on the amount of time we have to carry out. Structural contributions increase by 609 million. K. in the next five years from the current programme, and then over 15 years, some 4.4 billion when it has been taken into account that the Waters Road is now on course, a highway. At that time, the amount of donations for maintenance flights and the ransom fund is increasing from the current programme. As a result of increased financial expenditures along with increased emphasis on special funding, despite significant increases in contributions to maintenance and services, and a high increase in estimated national costs are accelerated by one or another from the current programmes. Projects are coming in new or they're moving up in time. The largest unique projects that thus bring us closer to us are at a tunnel in the East and in the footways to and from the capital area and within the capital area, where major infrastructure projects are being carried out. In all, projects, which are estimated to be a total of 214 billion, will be rushed from the current schedule, and I'm talking about 15 years, with the greatest speed being in the next five to seven years. The future vision and the primary objective are that the infrastructure of transport and communication systems and policy-based programmes would be the sole cohesion of a service and meet the needs of individuals and activities in an efficient and safe way across the country. Increased power has been put into the integration of these programmes so that goals and priorities support one another rather than work separately. The schedule presented here includes important vision and goals, and the five - year operation is a basic safety. According to one estimate, after a 15 - year period, the busiest roads and the capital area will have a separate road policy, 2+1 or 2+2, on the Western road all the way to and past the citynes, on the Southland road to Hella and on the Smokey Way to the air station. In fact, in the first two periods, S.A. Before 2029 C.E. The search for ways to speed up projects is even more successful because the road is one of the greatest highways in the country. The strategy in the area at Straumsvík is still unsolved, but the road plans for projects there may be offered at the end of 2022 if we have enough funds to do so. Another important goal is to complete the construction of the road system on the West. Thus, after the next five years, at the end of the first period, there will be a circle of the West Coast with animal tunnels and the built - up roads above the Dufindian River. During the second period, there will be another addition to the construction of Vestafjörður Road to Bilddal. With a new tunnel translucency, a reduced route some 20 miles [27 km], a new built - up road will be at the south side of the West, all the way to Patrekfjörður, leaving a road in the Smokeland force hopefully starting. The further development of the strategy in southern Western Europe and the development of the urban population will be in the period of the critical period of long-term transport strategy, i.e. to connect with a bound discrepancies of all settlements with over 100 inhabitants. In the years that follow, there will be many older bridges made new, such as the bridge of the Fairy River, the bridge of the glacier in the mountains, the Laer River, and the two bridges of the Shiver River, to name a few. The strategy puts increased emphasis on developing cooperation between private and public in building infrastructure and ensuring that their international progress is improving more rapidly. It is suggested that round the northest Selephoss, along with a new bridge over Elfundál, a double Hölfjörður, a round road around the Snow Valley, and a tunnel to test mountain as well as Mount Sunways, will be fully funded by private agents, and will be carried out as a cooperative project. In addition, Axe Road and its highways around the Hornland will be carried out by means of a combined financing. The main benefits of cooperating are that funding is out of the budget, allowing it to provide the opportunity for further induction of national interest. In addition, this method provides a strong incentive for innovation, potentially leading to lower costs for design, implementation, and operation. At about A year, since the last plan was submitted to the General Assembly, we have been able to achieve a historic agreement with rural areas in the capital area on the solution of traffic problems in the area. The treaty connects the interests of all people, so people have real options for transportation, family cars, public transportation, walking, and riding. During this period, about 120 billion structures are expected to be built over a period of 15 years, and the first five years are expected to be performed for an average of about 10 billion. It is expected that transport contributions will be 2 billion dollars. Each year, as well as the rural areas in the capital area, we contribute until 1 billion more. In addition, there is a improvement in the development and sale of the country at Kldur and a special funding in the form of speed and traffic costs of up to 60 billion. For the first time, there is a special geo-engineering programme that follows a transport program. It is based on the results of an Eastern funeral group, but it is assumed that later there will be a comprehensive assessment of all the funerals discussed in Iceland and that have been discussed and their future priorities. It is expected that direct contributions from the transport programme and a land tunnel plan will account for about half the cost of soiling. Thus, in the 2022 Fjords'projection is expected to develop, which will achieve a long-lasting goal of breaking up the isolation of Sufjörður. Following them, work is expected to begin with two tunnels from Seysar Fjords through the North Land, where there will be a series of circuits in the Middle East, which could provide for the public's standard of living and strengthen the inhabited earth within the region. Both maintenance and service contributions are now substantially increased from the current programme, by over 1 billion a year in total, but also in transport programmes are many important road measures leading to prevention and reduction of single-line bridges, both in the interest of security and environment. One of the most important projects during the first period is a new bridge above the Hornfield and adjacent roads that shorten the road about 12 miles [11 km]. A transport program continues to strengthen and string up broken traffic distances, even though they do not meet the carrier resistance and roadline requirements. In accordance with government policy, increasing emphasis is placed on public transport in both the capital area and the national region. The first global policy in public transportation is now part of a transport plan and a follow-up with it. The new policy is aimed at promoting public transportation as an alternative to travel from community to air, air, and uterus. One of the most important challenges of the coming years is to minimise the negative effects of transportation that fall within the range of sustainable development without any compromise in the benefits of good transportation. The government has established a climate action program that aims to keep Iceland's commitments under the Paris Convention. A transport programme is proposed to work in accordance with the importance of the action programme. One of the main objectives of the transport contract is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from traffic in the capital area, including by promoting public transport and efficient transport and promoting changes in tourism. In addition, the focus of new policy on public transportation and air traffic is on looking for ways to reduce the environmental impacts of tourism. Is there a problem? View energy exchange, but a very large step was taken when a new Western island, General, began sailing. She can only drive electricity, but she is otherwise tvinferja. I've decided to start working on economic incentives to increase energy crops in Iceland, also to improve the flea's ability to harvest different energy sources that are renewable and environmentally friendly. With regard to flight matters, the overall flight policy for Iceland for the first time in the 100-year history of the flight is part of a transport program. One of the emphasises is that the development of Akureyri and Eglial Air Forces will be supported as a global airport. The design of the infrastructure will emphasize that they will meet with the best needs of pilots for the national reserve airport. In line with the agreed transport programme, Istavia is working to take on construction and operations at the Eglel Standards Airport. This gives rise to space immediately next year, which is useful in other airports, including Akureyri Airports. In payment of the budget, the government was authorized to buy or rent houses that could be used to expand the base of the Akureyri Airport. At the same time, we find ways to increase funding and access the airports and balance the facilities of the country, and it is the Scottish way of making the so - called important step in that direction. Air traffic costs are high, compared with international flights. Government payment programs in Scotland have proved to be well and are intended after a year, i.e. The next autumn, residents in the country can benefit from it, and this is also in line with an agreed transport strategy. Emphasis is placed on reducing the environmental impact of flying and flying management and on paying for energy exchanges in this article. Recently, an agreement was signed to investigate the possible new location of the airport in the capital area. The treaty ensures the future of the Reykjavík International Airport in Watermight and will continue on its domestic flight for at least 15 to 20 years. During the next few years, most passengers of the country's airport are being built up in the city of Reykjavík. During the season, the airports in the Western Islands, Iceland, Thorsfare, rape, and Hornfjord. There will be a renewal of instructions and light equipment on Thors Harbor and Hornfjord, as well as maintenance of buildings and equipment at Húsavík. A policy plan aims to ensure that during the first period of action programmes we are considering here, there will be the development of European shipping policies aimed at increasing economic growth and sectoral development in shipping and related articles. Expenditures to Refundation Fund, except for about 1 billion each year. Strengths are priorities, including with regard to the importance of transport, maintenance needs, marine safety, and practicality. The estimated cost of construction at docks is about 7.9 billion, with an additional 990 million out of base. The share of state funds at docks is estimated to be 5.1 billion, over 1 billion a year. Recycling is being done on the land island, which is designed to ensure a steady depth of water on the island and to pay for its cruises. This is how a bottom pump system is used, but a total of 355 million are expected. K. The money he'll need in the next five years. I suggest that once we have finished talking about this schedule as well as the next one, it's going to be a problem. Environmental and transport committees and other sources
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u95	Mr. President. At the beginning of this discussion, it may be beneficial to remind ourselves of what kind of country we are setting for transportation. You see, we don't live in any ordinary country. We sometimes call it scattered, but the reality is that we live in a kind of city state. In the big capital area, the population is 70,480%. It is a pair of countries, such as Panama, Kuwait, Djibouti, and Mongolia. There's a reason why things are like this. We are a small nation in a very large country, and 100 and some years ago a political decision was made that if we were to have a hospital, a university, a legal authority, justice, and powerful cultural institutions, we would have to focus on building it in one place. So it's not natural development, it's controlled. Now I'm not saying that it was unwise at the time, but I'm almost sure that when that decision was made, it was in some way possible to attend that service, both at the World Council and among political parties, to officials, and, of course, to the people of all countries. In fact, it was this way before transportation became as good as it is today that many of these institutions were still more powerful in the country. But evolution has been that it has been more beneficial to build more and more here. I understand that the Norwegians would define this as a dangerous development if Oslo is to have about 25% or more of the population. In other words, we are in a situation where the big capital area is in about 70%. In 1900 some 7% of the population were in Reykjavík. By 1915 the ratio had reached 37%. Then, of course, I don't mention Garville and Mosfellstown and all the places that were really just villages and hardly at that time. So I think that in itself it can be claimed that we are dangerously close to the limit that nothing can control. In such a situation, it is especially important that a road program take over because, of course, all of us who live outside this area, as soon as we want to have a strong hospital, a good university, a symphony, a court order, and a legal assembly in this area, would also like to take advantage of it. That is why a transport program in Iceland is primarily a structured program and access to the capital is essential for our making peace in this country. Just as our capital needs a very strong capital city, our capital city needs to be strong, so our capital city needs to be strong. In fact, I think we should be able to cope with this situation and make it a blessing, but it simply means doing more work than is being made available in a transport program. Governments. I am, for example. complete agreement and support of the transport contract here in the capital area, with funding on the city line because I don't think that this is what we've seen in recent years, except that I agree with the highest level. Minister when speaking of transport and environment in the same sentence. I think that in the populated environment of a strong, good city, especially when it has 70% of the total population, we can achieve the most effective planning in the capital area. In fact, I've had this conversation several times with the highest. Environment Ministers and points out that there are simply too little emphasis on that matter in government policy. Thus, it is beneficial to know that this road covenant is made. Then we must make time known which magic solutions are the highest. When it comes to the 60 billion donations to be paid, a minister will draw attention to it, but he will later take it. In recent years and decades, the population of places outside this impact area has been highly protected, and this is evident in the development of population. True, it is not negative in the Eyjafjörður, but it is all too slow for how it should be in a place like, for example. Akureyri. I find it incredibly disappointing that we don't see forwards and ambitious suggestions for the Akureyri airport. It is mentioned in the transport program that no more portals are opened into the country. One aim is to provide passengers better, and one of their goals is to open more opening up into the country, but nothing is being done to fulfill it, and that is a source of great disappointment. We observe the rise of tourists from several hundred thousand to several million in a few years that, in an isolated small area of the country, is being overindulged. It has just become dangerous to nature as to how river flows in many parts of the southwest country are while there are maligned opportunities all over the country. This is just stupid. In surveys 60% of the passengers who land in Akureyri are arriving the second time, so people want to see a larger portion of the country. It is a wise way to increase the portal and do it properly because we too need the opportunity to grow and thrive in these areas. By not defending money for building the Akureyri Airport, not more than 78 million in five years, while total flying contributions are about 36 billion in five years across the whole country, they are actually taking the rocks from these people who, of course, want to be strengthened and built up, apart from that so that the possibility of going straight to the country is not just a question of quality of life but also of the highest environmental protection. Minister. There is an extraordinary amount of carbon that takes us to land in Cheflavík, drive to Reykjavík, and then fly to Akureyri rather than fly straight. These are things that need to be kept in mind. In the Treaty of the Treaty, in many places there are both urban and urban development and I think it's pretty shitty that the Akureyri Airport, perhaps with a range of 40,450,000 people, is about 40,550,000. The same as Faeroe girls have, is not more reasonable. I certainly hope, because my time is now up, that the Council Environmental and Transport Committee will start to crash and pay for financing to the Akureyri airport. Otherwise, it won't be much fun with this bill. I'll be in a second round. I went elsewhere, but I thought this was one of the most striking things in the bill, so I decided to use my time almost exclusively in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u96	A respectable president. A treatment plan is here made clear that we now counted on the transport programme in February; it is only a short time since we provided a very ambitious program of transport in February, that would enter the fall, and with the changes proposed in February. The strategy was clear then, put into it an enormous amount of work on the part of the Committee, both in conferences with people from all over the country, the Ministry, and the Road Building. It was provided with an ever greater proportion of the special council, and it was taken into great agreement with the national community organization throughout the country. The main objective of the programme expected that a magazine would be broken in transport, rushed into action on the basis of additional expenditures, where the benefits of those who would always have to pay would be greater than the costs and that we would be given a very effective involvement in this structure by foreign tourists. We stressed the many events leading in and out of the capital area. It was not for good reason; it was because of some of the most expensive projects that are urgent and are released of a large amount of money that can cover the country, even within and outside the capital area. In the beginning there was a political dispute over these routes, which is, to say, a broad political controversies. We're all looking in the same direction, no matter what category we come from. The capital contract is an example, an ambitious plan that will completely change all traffic and transportation right here in the capital area if your goals are reached. He builds on the exact basis that we set up in a transport program, where different groups come into the greater part of the capital to form on the basis of what was here at the council. That covenant was made out of advance on the approval of the Generals, and now the commitments of the State in transport programmes to 2 billion in the transport program we have taken care of, the Minister's proposals. The committee will discuss its priorities completely. The Commission is going to enter this capital contract and carry out its duties as a travel committee of the Parliament and that the council is about to meet as with other transport programmes. Of course, it is obvious that the minister at any given time cannot go around the country and divide the country into a certain area and make an agreement with local societies, and it is only unnecessary for the council to discuss a transport program because it is all agreed between the Minister and the local community. This is something that needs to be considered, and I have some ideas about a project that Reykjavíkurburg has been taking a step in and that attracts attention, after the treaty was made, to light controls in the capital area. It is obvious that we need an additional amount of money at the beginning of the covenant in order to fulfill that commission so that it will begin to work. The fundamental objective of our approach in a transport program provided here in February was to achieve a so - called national campaign in transport. I'm worried that the factors that led to a disturbance, and perhaps that the matter was not very comfortable, are not being reached in the transport program we are considering. The capitalic treaty has brought the currency in the capital area, on the side of the capital area, and then within the capital area, but very little is available on the other hand, except for specific projects. This cannot be called the equation we proposed to distribute this land - wide currency and extend it to these projects. For instance, there can be no peace in Rhines that goes for ten years until the Rhine Way is finished. On the other hand, the work on Southland and Western roads and the Smokey Way cannot be much satisfied with being completed so that it does not need to return in a few years. However, it was intended to replace a misunderstanding with a phone breakfast and a double for a 1+2 road, although strict traffic count, according to Vega's figures, does not require immediate intervention. We also planned, by releasing capitals on these main routes, to achieve a great effort in farm and country roads, and to examine it, including the rest of the world's population. Based on community unity and many other factors. This may have been the basis for the fact that many participants were very pleased with trying to go that way. We are not achieving a satisfying fulfillment. There are larger projects, which are not limited to a 15 - year plan, such as the Shrine Road, which always plays a more important role as time passes, to form as a freighter. Great shipments of goods have started around the Cove, and they'll only grow into fish around the ridge. We read in the news yesterday that right at the beginning of the next year, another cargo ship that sails in the Cove and there are further ideas on growth. It is clear that the majority of people cannot be left without a transport plan to 15 years of age. There is also the route between Sandophis and Gard, and there can be a way to take the country's roads around the country. It is possible to mention the urgent need to travel north of Huna Lakes, the lake of Waternes, which has arrived in a second period and then the armed forces of urban population and roads in other parts of the South. I also have premonitions for such projects as these fiscal projects, e.g. On an Alf Year Bridge. I can't see that 5 to 6 billion projects on the Elfjörður bridge can live with pay only when running over the bridge. It is so short to pass through Selephos, and there is a great danger that the main trip will continue through Selephos if it needs to charge the price to charge at the Elfian Bridge. It was supposed to be part of a much bigger project that we had in mind, paying for a payout that was on this whole route. What lies ahead, though there are increases, and there are serious concerns, ports, and airports. There is a very serious situation in our marauders. That's a very serious situation on our national airports. It has been discussed with Akureyri airports and Egls base airport. There are also more to look at. The situation is serious in Bilddal, Cape Hornfjord, Western islands, and beyond. That's where we need a real effort, and it's enormous. The same can be said of the docks. That's not enough money to go on that project. I'd also like to simply enter something that's not connected but, nevertheless, an agreement with the capital area through a 2007 set-up and then has been suspended. It is the takeover of rural society in the capital area of certain monuments, highway constructions, or road constructions, which have been under the control of the State or the road structure. This is going to be a visit to the local community for years, and no conversation or agreement has been reached, as it is decided, to take over the local community on these roads. I would like to encourage the Minister to put it into practice, on account of the duties of the rural communities, and the capital of the road law, to sit down and settle this agreement so that this can work out in harmony. I mentioned it at the beginning, the highest. Minister, the broad understanding of an agreement that was reached with the transportation process in February was of utmost importance. I can see that the means now being offered can bring forth conflict. In my mind, it will require much work for the Committee, and we will have to take an enormous amount of time to do this. [[The president calls.]] So I emphasize that the more 4 billion for the next year's provision, new 4 billion for the next year, will be taken care of by the Committee according to the priorities agreed by the Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u97	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u98	Mr. President. We'll discuss the underlying transport program, and I'm assuming that we're going to hear a somewhat different opinion about it, whether by the opposition or even by the board of directors. However, it was such that when a travel program was adopted during the last session with a thorough committee study, it was anticipated that it was presented as a complete revision. This was mainly because treaties in the capital area were just about to depart and, like roadtoll, had to be considered in the Ministry of finance. The three groups now stand together, on the Minister's foundation, a new transport plan. Not surprisingly, some changes have been made in our last transport program and in our committees' program, which we put on an enormous amount of work, and I helped make and were happy to do so. For the same reason, I can say that I am well pleased with the current transport program, no doubt by one or another. But that remains to be seen in the work of the Committee I am on, the Environment and Transport Committee. I'm going to discuss the political issues in a few words. In addition to achieving this transport plan as ambitious for the first time, it may be a practical and efficient process of transport that will respond well to all factors. We would like to look at these 12,000 miles of roads that are in the care of our society and ask for priorities. It is now in the form of this transport program, and no doubt one can criticize one thing or another, but it does hold completely water. One reason is that the 12,000 miles I'm witnessing, which are the numbered roads in Iceland if we can say so, to get them back to the way everyone would want to cost us pretty much the same as anywhere else in the world. We now have 1,000 billion national expenses, and when we are going to take from the 100, 200, or 300 billion on transportation, we must be very careful with our priorities. It is very easy to use specific simplicity and to view it as a matter of personal debate, depending on the priorities to follow. I'll list here at least There are four points I would like to discuss; it's security, it's climate, it's urbanity, and it's public transport, and then I'm going to take a few words about the impact on the economy when it comes to it. When it comes to security, it is clear that the damage caused by accidents, serious injuries, and deaths in traffic, we divide into dozens of billions of dollars each year. It is vital that we overcome it and view it as an investment in improved roads. This will bring about so many people's well - beings and advantages that we do not need to reenact. But inside the security case, we also have ports. There are also improvements at airports, and, of course, they are important because of the same thing. A medical plane that is a major component of our health system and as safe as a flight guide. All these security issues are taken up in this transport program. We can then debate whether it is good enough, but it is done and to an acceptable degree in my mind. Climates come on shorter road routes and easy traffic, of course. It is once so that a drive on a yearly basis, let's say, the average car, costs a hundred bucks. every road a mile. Clearly, if road routes could be reduced by only a few miles or a hundred miles [6 km] or hundreds of miles [200 km], the benefits would be significant for the benefit of public and professional drivers and for others as well as for the climate as for every mile [kg] that is not driven, because of lower emissions, the climate would be affected. Another factor is the longer life span of the automobiles used so that no matter what the way it is considered, the improvements in the transport programme are significant in the climate and climate. In this comes energy exchange. I'm not going to reenact them, but this government has taken a lot of heavy energy exchanges, whether in the fleet or in other areas. When it comes to communities, the same is true. It is not only a shorter road line, a smoother road, and a moat that matters, but a wide range of countries, as it were. Also, that priorities take into account both security and climate matters that I have mentioned. The same is true of strong harbors, whether they are fishers or fishers primarily or ports that are also involved in transporting. Then we come to the lines where there is a program for improved roads in large and small areas of life, but I agree that there is a great need to be done better in many areas. I could give you a number of examples, but I'm not gonna do that, but this is one of the weaker points of this transport process, and we need to take a closer look at how we can come up with a environmental and transport committee. I name public transportation, too. Of course, it is building a compatible bus system or bus system in the country. The city line is the common view of this large settlement here on the southwest corner and on the state. When people talk about a city state, I agree that it can be used well, but that city state is very small because we are talking about 100,000,500,000 souls in a relatively large area. That city state is very different from the city we know in foreign lands, where transportation tools other than ours can be run, whether they are trains, subways, or trolleys. We need specific means to create a viable city state, so we continue to use that word, by transportation. This city line concept, with the adjacent bus transport, macaring, and so forth, is, in my opinion, a proper way in those areas. We'll talk about public transportation and noses, then fly in history and negotiate a Scottish route as the highest. A minister realized, and as with the fact that while there is not as good or as better an airport as the Watermur airport, he will be there, let's say 15 years or more. I can also refer to a reimbursement of aerospaces, backup airports and international airports, and then the effects on the economic situation of the country that is positive, as suggested in the recent Council's planned target. I'm going to let this be enough for now, but I'm going to stress that we're going to be careful with the coverage of the environmental and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u99	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a five - year transport plan, a 2024 operation plan. Next, we will discuss a transport program for the next 15 years. This is where transport policy is set, the main goals to be worked on. It takes into account other government policies and plans, such as a structured plan and a communication plan, and it discusses transport funding. As I have previously stated from this platform, transportation affects everyone. They are the largest community, as well as health, education, welfare, employment, environment, and cultural issues. There is also much to learn about the long - term and short - term development of social development. So we need to work out all the plans in this regard, as we do elsewhere. Although improved transportation is and should be a hobby for many, in a brief talk here, I find a few vital points to be included. In short, I am very pleased with the underlying transportation plan. It clearly indicates that we have made good progress in paying down the entrance in the road system after a crash, where a huge increase in funds are now spent for road repair compared to the previous period. Certainly we're not running out of road projects, we're gonna be very late in Iceland, but here are some important steps. It is also important, as it is in the plan, to maintain the structure that has been built, otherwise we waste valuables. In the financial program, donations to the roadways of 2020,2024 increase by 4 billion each year from the last session. The services and maintenance of the road system are increased according to the current programme, each service and maintained, for more than half a billion a year. The same strategy that we agreed on at the spring convention is now updated to believe that I, along with others, felt that I had a good deal of work to do. The Environment and Transport Committee then brought together a number of visitors and covered transport projects that will be available over the next few years and decades. Of course, we have not done all the work we planned for transportation, but many have arrived in port. In the spring payment of the Environment and Transport Committee, the need for additional funding for construction in the road system was tremendously high, and it is therefore very happy that there should be an additional 4 billion each year as well as a bill on cooperation with the government and in the plan a number of such projects are expected. The biggest change between estimates is a new project of some 214 billion dollars. will be rushed from the previous programme for supplementary financial resources following the Environment and Transport Committee coverage and the approval of the General Assembly. The transport agreement in the capital area has now been completed by the State and the six member countries, and this covenant is a manifestation of a common vision and a complete understanding of the variety of transport in the region and is a part of solving the dominant and predictable traffic problems. The largest single project that is closer to us in time is a tunnel in the East and in the footways to and from the capital area. Then a joint cooperation project by the State and private agents is laid out on a large scale of work and, like the Supreme Court, as it were. Ministers previously traced the work unequivocally on the prowess of cooperation, such as the lack of financial funds allows further efforts to speed up the nation's more economic gains so that recovery takes place more quickly on the community. In addition, this means strong incentive for innovation in design, construction, and business, thus reducing costs. The estimated cooperation projects are Axe Road, a highway in the Hornland, a bridge over the Fairy Sea, a double Hölfjörður, and a tunnel to test mountain, as well as Mount Sunways. For the first time, special geographing programs are being developed for many years. Its projection is expected to begin in the year 2022, with a long - awaited goal of breaking up Seyster's feed zone. They are expected to begin working on two tunnels from Seysen land to the North ground, with which the rounding of rural society in the East would become a reality that could surround the East, strengthen the settlements within the region, and further increase the value of the Eastern country into the country. The design and shape of vision for the future in flying affairs has never been cared for by others as vigorously as in recent years, and the discussion of flying matters was widespread in the community. We've got a flight policy, a follow-up with the 15-year plan. This is the first time in the 100 - year history of the flight policy. Its key elements are aimed at being one hand in the international and backup airports, and Istavia takes responsibility for the airports. The users of international airports must be involved in some way in the management of second-hand airports. A key safety issue for those who fly through the Cheflavor airport is the construction of resorts in Iceland when circumstances suddenly change because of weather, natural disasters, or accidents. Now a major step is taken in improving operations and development at the Eglish Standard Airport. There is a delay between the years and the years when Istavia will take over, and there will be room immediately next year for further maintenance at other airports. It is very important to keep it in place, which may not be seen in the transport program, that through the Service Convention with Istavia, there will be 2.5 billion each year for the service at the national level, and more than half a billion will already go to the airport in Akureyri. By moving to Isvia's Lagi State Airport, there is more space for the airport at Akureyri than for other national airports. As mentioned earlier, in aeroplane policy, it is clear that the construction of the Akureyri and Eglium standards as an international flight guard and that the building of infrastructure will emphasize that they will meet as best with the needs of airports in this country as well as with the aerodynamic role. Of course, beyond that, the international flight is a major local language and one of the keys to the equality of the communities. In addition to maintaining the country's airports, therefore, the situation of the population needs to be leveled, where the Scottish way is estimated to take up the latter part of the next year is an important step. It is a way that has proved effective for Scotsmen to cope with problems resulting from high cost of flights, insufficient frequency of flights, and a more variable seasoning. The educational route is a way that the General Assembly agreed on with the provision of a spring transport program for this project. Last week, a contract was signed for further research on the airports in the capital area, but this agreement adds to a guarantee of the future of the Aviation Airport in the Watermes for the next 15◯20 years, assuring that the airport can be maintained and built up in a terminal station there, which has hardly been allowed to fix loose screws in the last few years, as well as ensure that Reykjavík's airport in the Waterstorm will be there to be as good or better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u100	A respectable president. I'm afraid we'll discuss a two-way transport plan. I have to admit that I'm sorry that we haven't been able to do the usual thing, to take together the long - term plan and the shorter plan, and wondered if some council didn't want to take it that way. According to this, I will admit that I have not quite read myself through this transport program. It's a tradition. The Environment and Transport Committee will consider this matter well, and often there will be some change in the transport program on the Committee, which, of course, is just normal. I wanted to enter a show where I know a lot of things and therefore have strong opinions that I would be willing to promote. First, I'd like to say that I've welcomed the capital convention, and I've found it important to work with my rural society. I know the field where I have been working long in the planning of the capital area, and I understand the importance of seeing the whole picture of transportation in this area. I'm glad that this agreement has come to port, but of course I also trust it. The Environment and Transport Committee will review what is involved in this excellent transport strategy. I am also a senator who has spoken repeatedly for the city line, and I do not tire of talking about its importance. So I'm very happy that it is written in a transport program that here we are not just getting ready, as we have been in, but carried out completely over the years. I'm absolutely certain the importance of city lines and the importance of our growing public transportation at the same time. I say that it is not the answer to a means of transportation but, rather, it is among the vital work we need to do in order to improve transport in the capital area. Then I do not get tired of reminding you that according to local and population growth programmes, by the year 2040, the number of people will increase by 70,000 and thus traffic will increase accordingly. If there's no action as important as a city line, I'm afraid we'll always be stuck in traffic jam with the time spending and pollution supplied. I am happy that the city line is here as well as the emphasis on the transport programme, which we have seen in the last phase, on other active transport methods, such as cycle and footpaths. I think it's all important. I began to look at the board, and I want to make the most of it. A minister to the projects that have already been determined as from which they came. Environmental and Transport Committee last visit, i.e. A transport plan with the changes they encountered. This set out specifically that in the Westland route, Skarhól was to travel to the ocean lakes in 2019 110 million and in 2020 400 million. I can't find those numbers in this transport program. I'm told that this amount has been compiled into the budget of the capital agreement and that it is set down in 2019. I'm both the highest. Minister and minister. A committee to ensure that these funds will follow. I know that these projects are not completed and will not be completed until next year, but it is very important that they do so and that money is involved in this project. Then I'm going to come into one of them connected. I realize that there is a disagreement between the community and the road model for the sound equipment involved. This is by no means the only local society or the only case where there is a dispute between rural society and the roadmaking of expenses. I'm gonna take this opportunity and I'm gonna make it look great. A minister to find a solution to that matter, and particularly so, there is no need to negotiate on the basis of each decision when going into action the proportion of the community should be and the road structure, but clearly. Some would say that there is something clear about road law, but there seems to be a constant difference between us. I suggest that there be a remedy, so it is clear who takes on the cost in these substances. For highways that travel through urban areas, sounds need to be needed, and they must be part of the cost of these roads. I'd also like to sharpen both the highest. Minister and minister. A commission regarding the West Road of Kjalarnes. It was very sad when we received the report this summer that the project to be carried out there had been reported to the Environmental and Resource Commission. I think it's the first time that environmental assessment is required - not on a new road, but on a shift. I'm not going to speak against environmental assessment, it can have and have a good purpose, but we also set up the strategy of a time requirement for an environmental report that I understood would be less needed for environmental assessment when such projects were being carried out. I know that such an environmental report was accompanied by this organization. I don't just mention this because I'm trying to impress us on the roads planned on Kjalarnes, it's a huge security case and it's absolutely necessary to take on these projects quickly and safely. I see in the transport program the budget is set up between 2020, 2021, and 2022, and then it's going to be done with the 2020 project. What I'm afraid of in this process is how we're going to walk in this environment, where we're not even building new roads, but just making sure of the roads we have. This often means decreasedness and specific changes. The rules we've created for construction and planning are so complicated that it takes a number of years for well - educated engineers and other experts involved in making all kinds of reports and preferably reports on the reports and assessments of the available food. It's on the table now. Environmental and Transport Committees, although part of this is also on board at the highest level. Environment Minister, and we must have clear and sound guidelines on how we act. I have to say to my point of view that I think we have managed to create a system that somehow just works for the system and doesn't benefit the people of the country. I'm burning a lot for this. I just had to make it happen here. Other than that, I don't think I have to make any further comments on this matter. During these festivals, there is an excellent time to read through the transport program and to observe it as well. The environment and transport committee follow. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing in the transport programme and wishing to do so. The Environment and Transport Committee will benefit from working with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u101	Mr. President. We'll talk about the next five years and also the next 15 years. This transport plan is finally developed, but I can't tell you that it's easy to read when you open it. If someone was to study it to the ground, it would be the same for some disappointments because it is difficult to discern when the schedule is set, when it should begin, and when it should be exactly completed. I have to admit that I would have liked to have the plan more easy to read, especially in order that people could simplify their implementation in their surroundings or in close proximity to their home country. So I'm a little bit complaining about the misunderstanding, especially the five-year plan. Transport is one of the main and most important tasks at the government's hand, ensuring transportation in such difficult, large, and small countries as we live in. Hence, it is not surprising that a person is excited for it when it is at its height. A secretary of transportation will examine his plans for carrying out projects, preferably in the near future. They're waiting on me and they want to get their way, especially next year. This plan has much to say, and of course we are in the early stages. I've just got the plan, and I haven't really checked it yet, and because I haven't read it yet, I guess I'll be corrected. The Environmental and Transport Committee will, of course, review this schedule, and I'm expecting a more difficult job on that committee. The primary feature of the first review program is that most larger projects are set forward considerably. This has been so since this government began, in fact, has not happened much. She's been in power for over two years and hasn't done so much. True, men have completed the ports, but not much has been accomplished. I always feel like there's plans, ideas and schemes, but then we're waiting for the project. The people of the land are waiting for them. There are always new plans and even bigger than yesterday, even more wood, more tunnels, longer tunnels, more bridges, longer roads - but you don't see so much happening. Certainly I have to admit that a great deal of work was being done when this government began to fix and maintain a advanced road system, although only to repair and repair a badly damaged road. I must commend the government for its success. There's been an adjustment. There's been a process of floundering, falling and fixing here and there. I'll give the government a plus for that, it's been a long time, but what major projects have been carried out over the last two years or started? There's not much that comes to mind. I must confess, Mr. President. Yes, there's a section three miles, and hardly, east of Whoville, which isn't quite finished but is being completed, three miles on the highway 1 between Selephos and Hoatosis. Then there are some adjustments to the Grindavík Road that should be attributed, corrections to chapters that were long in time. Animal tunnels were finished, though they were already there. There are other minor ridicule here and there. Of course I forget something, but everyone sees that this is not an accomplishment. Less than 50 years ago, we had a full - scale background on equipment, human resources, and money. It was an achievement, and I sometimes wondered, " How is it that we cannot accomplish as much as we used to? ' It seems that every mile of this place is a fokkin' animal. Although only two lanes are being turned into three lanes, it costs billions of dollars on top. Why? Why do you need e.g. A tunnel that costs so much and takes so long, like south of Hafnarfjordur? It's because of the workmates, it has to design, draw, dig in, and beat up, tumble, wait for the overthrow to dry, strike and tumble again, repeat this four, five times during one tunnel, first floor, then roof, then let this dry that takes weeks, and then then run the traffic again six months or eight months later, with the members of the delay and risk of all traffic at this time. What's the price? I read about and hear that other countries have invented simpler tactics. They shovel through the road, bring premature units, load them up, and then close the road. A few days later, they drive there. This is much faster and considerably cheaper. Why have we not come out of this? You can see repeatedly in this country when a tunnel is being built beneath a road, as in Hafnarfnarfjörður and elsewhere, that it takes months. It takes some men to draw this, even if it's done for tens of times. It's not like they're picking up the bike. Is it not possible to do this a little simpler and more productive? I was going to say much more than it is that my time is about I'm done and I'm on just another page of eight. I was going to mention other things, but I'm going to use these last seconds to declare disappointment, especially if there are no plans for an attack on the Sunway. Looks like they've given up already. They negotiate with the city authorities in Reykjavík every other day for all kinds of financial contributions, but they cannot be negotiated on this Sunday path. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to say I'm disappointed in this. I express frustration with the length of many of these dangerous and difficult ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u102	Mr. President. We'll discuss a new transport plan here. It's been around a lot, and we've got ten minutes. It is a pleasure to have been on transportation in recent years, with considerable increase in financial resources being spent on investments. As I mentioned in my talk about the budget that we agreed on last week, the 2020 budget, the increase from 2017 to 11.7 billion, or 32%, in real value. The majority of the increase will occur in the next year when special 3,9 billion increases occur in construction and maintenance, with special emphasis on increasing traffic security. By means of this budget, the total budget for maintenance will be about 10.5 billion dollars. and contributions to building at 16.5 billion dollars. The development of the budgets clearly shows how much has been added to an investment in recent years. A further review of the time period, prior to 2017, shows that the absolute value of the index price has continued since the lowest in 2012. This increased emphasis on infrastructure is in accordance with the government's administration covenant, and it is well thought that the need for the State to slow down despite predictions of less economic growth. This is also consistent with the results of the reviews of a number of people who have visited a legal committee this year. It is a pleasure to find that in recent years the incremental funding has been spent on road schemes, as I entered, what has been missing, is that the budget spent for the maintenance and innovation of the country's flying system has been extremely limited and particularly since 2011 when the funding of the system failed to save and turn into a service fee that went down to the Chefjordur Airport, but before the revenues had flowed to the international flight of the country, outside the Chefjordur Airport. This resulted in an intermediate transfer of over a billion in income to the Cheflavor airport and into the accounts of Istavia. Since 2011, there were some 1 billion each year's low - volume flying systems outside the Chefjordian Airport, allowing this figure to vary from 61⁄28 billion, what has been collected since 2011. There's a big, big problem we've been through here in the last few years. In a report published by the staff in early December to the secretary of transport and to deliver the headline The Aeroplane system construction and the expansion of the international airport as a public transportation, it is suggested that from January 1, 2020, the international airport Chefjordur Airport, the Akureyri Airport, and the Angelic Airport will be set as a system of airports with a common cost base and Isavia ohf. Based on financial responsibilities for business, maintenance, and building up. At the same time, the level of Istavia service to the airports needs to be defined for the Society. Iceland's national situation contributes greatly to the importance of the four international airports serving the international flight to and from Iceland and about the Icelandic airport as a single flying system. In fact, many international airports in Iceland outside Cheflavík have proved their value for flight security to and from the country, and they are important in their own security. Air traffic across Iceland has multiplied over the past few years, and in spite of temporary setbacks, it looks like traffic to and from the country will grow considerably in the future. In the approved member of the Istavia Ohf Association, dated May 2, 2013, the Society's purpose is to handle the operations and structure of the airports, to operate as well as other duties. It can be said that this proposal of the service group to the minister a year ago it is being encouraged to follow the approved Society and its original goal for Istavia to build up and run a strong flying system in Iceland. The Treaty states that there is a special policy for Istavia. The aim of the State owner of Istavia is different from that of an investor in a market that looks primarily at what direct profit he makes from his investment. Thus, Istavia's tenet policy must also take into account other objectives, such as rurals, the growth of tourism, and the development of employment across the country. So far, the Istavia government has not made a suggestion to make money for the State since its establishment but has made a government decision that each year's profits are transferred to the next year. The company's money was at the end of June 2019... over 32.7 billion dollars. The financial sum was 41.6% and the collection of unbounded funds in the company was 24.6 billion dollars. at the end of June 2019. Clearly, the financial and professional strength of Istavia has grown dramatically since its birth at 5.6 billion dollars. 2010 For the development of the Icelandic flying environment, it is important that Istavia should take the responsibility of its owner, the Icelandic State, to hide the company, both on the basis of its approved society, as well as on official financial and tenant policies. You see, there have been recent reports that the state, hf, Istavia, and other people may need to integrate and cover their assignment, as we have recently seen with other ideas about the operation of Istavia and explain which direction to take. I'd also like to discuss just the importance of a satellite guide for the Icelandic flight and the importance of developing that technology in Iceland and getting into the distance from the European Space Agency and into the EGOS system. It may have been that Iceland was on its way into the European Space Agency about ten years ago, but after the collapse of the bank, that application was withdrawn, was to enter there at the same time as the Norwegians. We've seen tremendous benefits in Norway from becoming a member of the European NASA of Astronomy, and I certainly hope we're going to see some sign of it in Iceland, and we're going to get in there and get a correction station, preferably in Greenland, so the whole of Iceland is getting close. Then we would live in the future, hopefully soon, the most perfect flight guide, or satellite guide, that covered the whole country. A few years ago, so called RNP AR, and it has completely changed everything at the airport in Gogar, the Faeroe Islands. There was the usefulness of the field, the innovation rate, about 90% before this system was recorded, but today it is about 99%. It has completely changed all the executives at Atlantic Airways, making it possible that the SAS had to adopt the same system. They said: "We cannot compete in this environment with our local society, so they adopted this system. This is what we would like to see in Iceland, and this new technology would be very useful to us in many places. In the summer, the technique of Golf Airport in business for eleven whole days, above what another might have been, would have been shut down for eleven whole days in the summer. It is a pleasure to know that this transport plan follows a set of flight policies for Iceland and, for the first time, has been developed and published a new international flight policy. That's very good. These are 14, 15 pages, and for an Icelandic society whose flight is extremely high, it is very enjoyable to have these points and very fine points. I would like to point out that in Section 2.3.5 about positive development, in the flight policy of this transport program, a strong international flight is said to become part of the public transport system. Its first point is that citizens in the country will be enabled to make better use of domestic flights through the cost of government participation. It is the so - called Scottish way that most is discussed there. Second, good contact with other parts of the public transportation system and the international flight is described. Third, in Reykjavík, the Homeland Air Center will remain in the Watermight until another option is as good or better ready for use. This is very clear. Air travel will then be supported in line with the objective of integrated travel time up to 3.5 hours to the capital area, from any country. It is good to see that goal again. It was taken out in the days of the left government a few years ago and is now back in, and it is important to maintain this goal about 3.5 hours for all the people of the country, to have this transportation opportunity to get to Reykjavík. They go fast these minutes. I guess I'll have to take the rest of my second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk, an interesting point was made. I wanted to take advantage of some knowledge. A senator on a plane transport to swaddle a few ideas. The first thing would be to get the senator's opinion of the ideas of a airport project in Whale test, taking into account his experience, whether this is practical, whether it is at a cost. It now appears that this may cost about 300 billion dollars. and I ask if it is justified in the big context of other options and perhaps in the way of providing for the development of the international flight. I'd also like to ask about the rest of the flight system, i.e. We have landing sites and smaller airports. Then I'm talking about smaller airports, like Burgundy, Western Islands, weapons farms and floors, and landing sites like Rif, Furholmur, Hellu, Sigludur, etc. How does he envision, perhaps primarily in this context, that it will be cast into the future? How does he see it being financed? How does he foresee that it will work? Now many of these places are unhappy today, unfortunately, but may be of great importance, such as. In the case of Furholm, the National Guard was used for disaster accidents. I wondered, " Is it not normal for LZ places to be assigned to a role or at least defined recognition in a transport program that has not yet existed? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u104	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. With that question, why? A senator really asked me to talk for a few hours, if I should answer the material things presented, here were many big questions. The main premise of the whale test report is that there are two airports needed on the southwest corner. That is a big change from what has previously been published in public records and reports from the state, this indication, it is enormous and important. I made comments this weekend regarding weather research. ICAO International Airport reports that at least Five years will be set up in a time line regarding weather analysis, and often more is involved. We know what we've been doing in Iceland for a long time, that it's moving in swingers over the years so that people can land in the good years of two years. This has to be over a very long period of time. The sum of 300 billion is high, and the report speaks of international airports and international airports all together, indicating that there are at least 300 to380 billion. In addition, the cost of aviators is by moving equipment and others into the area. But I pointed out this weekend that this is about Five times what is said about a new hospital in Reykjavík. This is one of the biggest projects in Iceland. This is similar if not higher than the plant in the east, in Alcoa, in Köldrano, and in combination with the River Valley activation. That's a huge number. We see how difficult it was for us to build one hospital to see the magnitude in the big context. This is an enormous task. I might get the other questions in the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u105	Mr. President. I thank you for your efforts to answer these big questions. These are fundamental questions, and perhaps only if we discuss them in detail. You're right, this is the biggest project of Iceland. It's spoken as if it were the most natural thing in the world and it's in a way. Clearly, we need a powerful international airport. I can say that we need at least two large airports on the southwest corner. Then there's the question of what happens with Reykjavík's airport. But I'm not sure that we will necessarily need two giant international airports at the southwest corner if you can arrange things so that you can ensure a sound access to Akureyri and Eglís sites. The most expensive incision points in this report are the number of flights from abroad, e.g. is a climate abnormality or worse. But I think I may ask nothing more in this counterpower to give a reason. A senator's chance to answer me about the rest of the system, and then I think of these smaller landing sites that are important to the inhabitants of each area, in emergency situations, as mentioned by Furhulummer earlier and other examples, but not least for international flights and others who may be involved in other events. When you get into an emergency, the most important thing is, and the best airport that's next to you, as well as known, is as long as you can get over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u106	Mr. President. That's the main premise of the Whale test report that two airports are in the southwest corner, that's what they're thinking. What's remarkable about what it says is that it's 20 years old. Then the next verse is actually ensuring the presence of the Reykjavík airport in the main structure of Reykjavíkurburg, defending the state of the airport to 1940, while taking the same major ideas we discussed earlier on the largest project in Iceland, so that it has come to pass. I agree on the importance of various landing sites, such as The Furholms on the South Coast, and in fact, I've also wanted to examine the landing sites in the area near a village cemeteries. A major bus accident would have to be considered with a security issue in mind that there are sites that can, for example, land landings. take the Twin Otter, the Mousy, and take care of it. However, as I traced earlier, the satellite tour could create enormous potential security prospects for the country. No landing equipment is required on the ground, but use the satellite technology, guide, and you can make it possible to fly helicopters and aircraft here and there to make sure that you have access to some areas. We can have an entirely different security system in the country that has a link to the flight and its use in protecting the security of the country. I agree with the importance of that. However, it should be noted that a report came from Istavia at the end of the last year. There, in an 85.9 - page report, the situation at all airports around the country is systematically reviewed, with a fall average. I pointed out in my speech that since 2011, when the backup cool price was taken off and placed in the Cheflavour Airport, this billion a year, the system has collapsed; the maintenance and innovations of the entire airport system in this country are the root causes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u107	Mr. President. Of course, this arrangement for transport in 2020/2024 is quite important in the Icelandic context because of how we always depend on all transportation. It is vital that we take a close look at this. I have not had the opportunity to do enough research in my opinion, but I have already noted a few points that I think are worth referring to at this point and have the hope that they will be examined by the committee. I suppose this will be done very well on the Environment and Transport Committee and possibly something adjusted. The first thing I'm going to do is the Smokeynes Way. According to the arrangement set out in this schedule, as well as the long - term schedule, it is delayed for years to complete a double Smokejanes Way. When you look at where the roads stand, and especially where they break up - and then you can talk about the Smokey Way but also the road above Hellishik - it is amazingly remarkable that the double seems to be risking the edge of the Southwestern Summit. I don't know if there's anything to blame for, but I think it's important that a full understanding of it here at the General Assembly and through the whole control system is that shoveling snow into the sidewalk and to the stairs is not necessarily helpful. Also, it is a somewhat strange approach to double the Rhineway to the ideal thresholds of the Southwestern standard and to have them studied for years when we see an increase in traffic rate, an increase in the use of the track. No matter what the reason, whether the ballast has caught some sort of calculus or whatever, the Smokejanes Way actually serves the interests of people on the Smokeynes as well as the thousands who make use of the road each week to reach the Cheflavík Airport or anyone else. She serves people just as badly in this regard if she is not doubled the whole way. Only now are we talking about finishing the currently, normal projects. It would be interesting to stop them. But we need to remember at least that it is crazy to stop this or not finish it at this point, especially when this is so incredibly embarrassing that it is beyond the limits of the votes. Another point: The Elbal Bridge. Now the plan is to try to finance this in cooperation with a private member. That's what I think is a reflection of a lot of what we're going to see in the program. It's a lot of talk about looking for funding possibly in agreement with one of the private partners, and I wondered if the country's road system had been established if this attitude had existed at the time. We know that we need these means of transportation, and we know that there's been a flat bridge as it stands today. She can't stand this much traffic -- or yes, she can accept it, but traffic goes for it, and Selephos suffers as a community. Would it not be reasonable for us to look forward to the lowest debt that has been in years, even using the opportunity to finance some of these projects? We are far below the average European debt level, and now that we are in economic downturns, such a traditional approach according to the Italian analysis is to use the high debt of state funds to finance the work required to go to - and it would even be possible to give in view that we may be seeing more unemployment and less use of the production capacity available. But the time passes quickly, so that I turn to the third, and become a boy. paritaprevir In fact, Trausti Friðbertsson was talking about a little bit about the economy. I notice that the transport program refers to service from the northwest of the south to the Hornfjord of the Pacific Ocean according to the existing plan. The reason this does not extend to the western part of the country has to do with the orbits of the satellites, they do not extend to the western part of the country because Iceland did not become an early part of the global system, and especially because the country was not a member of the European Space Agency. I think it's a good reason to mention that you're right. Friðbertsson That EGOS was the means to ensure future safety regarding landing sites and other sites, especially for helicopters, with the so - called location rod. If we can't guarantee it by e.g. Much more cooperation with the European Union - it has been achieved so far since we have an ELTOS service covered the country - we are potentially in bad shape. They come up with these ideas, like they've been missing some reason. The members of the Southern District, building a helicopter in the Western Islands because, for some reason, Homey is not expected to have put enough of her territory under transportation edifices already and an aviator in particular, EGOS would be a solution, without having to go to some form of helicopter exercise. I mentioned, in answer to the importance of general landing sites, at any rate being accepted into the system, and it is essential that they are somehow financed, like the driving force. A senator went over earlier, saying it's some kind of outdoor. Today, larger airports, which means airports the size of Western and Bilddal airports, are in a transport program, but smaller landing sites are not expected to have any definition, much less role. This needs fixing. Now there's two minutes and 23 seconds left, so it's public transportation. This transport program estimates that there will be exactly as many users of public transport in 2020 as it was in 2018, i.e. 79,000 users. It's a certain lack of forwardism, I have to say, for the highest. The secretary of transportation in view of the tremendous importance of building public transport, both in the capital area and in the country, with the intention of reducing the need for private cars, reducing endless traffic congestion, and improving public transportation. If it's not a natural codfish that more people use them when more trips are gone, I think we're losing. I know it's hard to assume something like this in a plan, but if you can't set the goal, maybe it's better at home than it's gone. Finally, I'd like to use my last minute to cover Reykjavík's airport and its context. It's been quite a debate for many years whether Reykjavík's airport should be where it should go, where it should go, etc. Now they're talking about the Whale test, which could be the solution, I don't know. However, if a whale test is the solution, it will be a solution of 60◯300 billion dollars, provided that the project will be as cheap as any hope. I have to say, I agree again. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, that we need at least to make sure that Reykjavík's airport is not going anywhere for the next ten years. I don't know exactly how to guarantee it, but maybe there's a way to rethink the balance of the airport. We know that there is a greater need to create a building area in Reykjavík, around Water marrina. We also know that there is an enormous amount of use at Reykjavíkur Airport, both in domestic flights, in teaching flights, etc. If we cannot guarantee such a use of the airport some kind of event and ensure a level of service, at least until another solution is found, there could be poor groundwork and other natural goals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But now I'm done with my time, end up really busy going over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u108	Mr. President. Only on the international average transport funding. I know we are under international standards when it comes to something else. Maybe in education or something like that. That is, of course, the number of appeals. Now, the question of an international average is, when it comes to financing the transport. We're under somewhere, okay? But then I'd like to ask back. To answer, is the subject being addressed to an appeal number? Does it depend on national income or on the length of the road system? I'm not sure any other country with a similar population compared to a area has another such road system in miles as Iceland. I think that regardless of how people calculate this, it's not surprising that we're not doing very well financing the new development and maintenance of this 12,000-mile road system I mentioned in a speech earlier. I'd love to hear from it. A senator a little bit more on this average.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u109	Mr. President. Now I have a problem, because I did not mention the international ratio, and I have not, in fact, stumbled upon it. I'm not sure where it comes from. One number I referred to was a lot of travel by public car, but I don't know if that's what it is. A senator is referring to him. But what I can say is, of course, we have a very large, large road system compared to the area and with the population, and it's always expensive to run good transport in Iceland. We can compare ourselves with other countries, perhaps similar to ours, Australia, Kazakhstan, where there is certainly a greater population but also a considerably larger number of countries and with a much wider transport system. But we can also look at the problem we are facing. We need to get somewhere in the country. We need to get out all over the country. We also need to get out of this country in an efficient way. If you examine the goals of No. 1 for the performance of the transport programme, that's what it's called GDP. Of course, there are good goals, such as the reduction of single - burnt bridges, which are intended to reduce five in the following year and to 25 from 36 before 2024, which I consider to be of no great high purpose. Similarly, the number of passengers in public carriages is about 5,000 until 2024, which I don't consider to be a lofty goal. Number of trips along the road? Yeah, okay, well, there may not be a great need to increase the number of trips with squares, but it's also going to increase the number of flights in the country by some 3,000 secular and ten thousand, or 5,000, during the period, but at the same time, it's going to reduce the budget to the international airport by 100 million or more, and I don't know how all this is going to work out. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator can tell me where these high goals are, and I would like to find them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u110	Mr. President. I'm assuming the highest. A minister would explain all the high goals. I don't think there's any basis for a speaker to ask me. But okay. I just want to come into this with the public transportation and the growth of passengers each year. I think of it in a way as an experiment. The public transport system is being reorganized. There's a slow trend going on. You need to learn how to do this by saying that it serves real public transportation. This isn't patted in stone. This goal may well be adjusted slowly during the transport program. But I would like to ask. A senator only on this PPP project or on a joint project on government authority and some private property in view of the fact that we are not only on welfare because we can get a favorable loan. I'm just asking, "What's the problem?" A senator objecting to this when it becomes clear that, in a way, these are actually loans from these private employees? At the appointed number of years, the subject will be carried out to the State. It's the Haggard tunnel model that's been doing all right. While we do not make nearly all the PPP roads, which are often called, there is a perfectly defender to apply some of them, five or six as in this case. What is really wrong or unfortunate about doing this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u111	Mr. President. I don't necessarily think that there's something wrong with financing a specific project with privates and recording what has been called the Hagular model. In some cases, I think it's okay. On the other hand - and then I come back to what I said earlier: Our road system today and our airport system today, and our rejection system today, we were all funded as normal and ordinary government services at our time, and I feel that it is determined to withdraw from it, from the state's official role. An angelic bridge is a shining example of this because since I was a child, it has been said that a universal bridge needs a renewal soon, and the need for renewal has been increasing. Just when did people come to the conclusion that the only way to fix an Elf - Year Bridge was to get a private member to finance and then charge a tax price instead of just being built like other roads in the land, such as the Elfjörður Bridge that we have today, for example? I'm not against us doing this in isolated cases, but let's not put it into our routine. Let us not make this an obsession, but let us remember that the role of the Kingdom is important, and the financial context of the Kingdom treasure is important. Finally, only on public transportation again. One of the things I find boring about not seeing in this transport program is that it is called public transportation, but it is not taken into account much growth in what is called microflow, i.e. Drivers, electric bikes, etc., which, of course, is a very important part of the public transportation system, perhaps in ways other than buses, and yet so we are to look to it in a transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u112	Mr. President. You could point it out. A senator suggests that during last night's conference discussion, there was just a discussion about putting off the merit tax from electric wheels and such so forth so that they could be in a transport program. But last night there was a lot of discussion. I agree with my point of view. A senator with regard to EGNOOS was delighted to hear his discussion. But I wanted to ask him about the Reykjavík airport. Now it's opening up. A senator owns it and believes that it should extend the area of Reykjavík's airport in Water Martínum about ten years. What is Pirata's attitude in the affairs of the Reykjavík airport in Wateramur? In the city of Reykjavík, the main organization approved for 2010 or 2011, was expected to reach 2016 as north/southway. The situation is now that after the 2013 signing session, the time was north/southway in the city of Reykjavík, from 2016 to 2022, and time from East/west to 2024. What is Pirata's attitude? A senator to extend his time? I think it's everyone who reads this new whale test report that there's actually a 20-year process going on, and the need for what needs to be done, that's going to make a big difference. It is also stated in the report that if possible, from the international, medical, and international flights such as Reykjavíkurhuun, the effect will be determined. Weatherly factors like those we talked about earlier. How interesting it would be to find out what Pirata's general attitude is in the affairs of the Reykjavík airport regarding changing the main structure in Reykjavík, which appears to be fundamental. If you're going to have a job like this, you've got to make sure that you're in the Reykjavík airport at least. 20 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u113	Mr. President. I was very sad to miss last night's debate about the worthy tax losses for electric bikes and bicycles because it's the case I had planned to make until I could see that the bill was announced. But I was only at the time taking advantage of the international flight system to get home from COSAC, Finland. But then I'll answer a question. A senator who is very important: What is the position of Pirata, and how are we going to do this? The answer is that there may not be a complete agreement in this matter at first. There is a very clear stand in the city of Piranha in Reykjavík that the course should take place. But I don't think there's anyone that feels that they should just rip it off in one blow. Of course, all of this has to be done in a small, organized way, and, of course, has to be in the context of some other solution before the airport leaves. On the other hand, it's a bit chicken and an egg problem. While the airport is in Reykjavík, less pressure is being made on building another and other solutions than if the airport is shut down in order to build another, there may have been a lot of pressure because there are tens of thousands of motions a year that will not be able to pass through the national airport. I think, at all, we need to discuss how we're going to do this, what the steps are. The report is very subtle in this regard so that at least it tells us that we need to do something. But it is not clear what the steps are from where we are today and where we want to be. [[The president calls.]] I know this may not be a perfect answer. But this is at least the best I can do at this moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u114	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to hear that. A senator is positive to consider this process in a larger context of the future, as is the case in this fine report. I just wanted to point out a policy of flying with a transport plan as an extension of some kind. It speaks of the main emphasis I discussed earlier in order to achieve the goals of safe flight transport. It specified in section 1 that the correctness technique for satellite guidance across the country should be considered. So this is precisely addressed in this document. The D- force says that the landing sites should be evaluated based on their safety role. This may involve the discussion that we have. A senator took the above regarding the Furholótttir and ground that are in large geographical areas, perhaps single fields. They need to secure the situation there if there are accidents, disasters, or what it is to clear the area, as we saw during the bus accident last year when rescue was with helicopters and airplanes. We have areas of land, large areas of territory that are heavily dependent on such availability, on the highlands, on the south coast, and on the east. There are big areas that depend on this. That is why we need to remember that money is guaranteed in these things. Also, do not forget to ensure smaller landing sites, for smaller machines that can still play a major role. I was, for example. Confronted with the delinquency of the urban population two, three years ago, and more of what we have seen. The system has been getting sick and getting very ill since 2011, and I pointed out that it is the source of this, when the system becomes so expensive after 2011 because of the actions that occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u115	Mr. President. I didn't have any sort of question or inquiry in this case, but I can say it for a reason. A senator said, and I think we're just in general quite agreed on this party. In any case, as I said before in another answer, there will always be an expensive means of maintaining a good transport system in Iceland, and if we realize that and plan for good enough and build up in a clear enough way, we can get over it. I know, for example, that my first answer to what? A senator may well lead to not becoming too popular with my city Christians. But that's okay because we have a certain conversation about how we should conduct them. I have a complete understanding of the desire and willingness of people to get rid of Reykjavík's airport from the Hydromosis. But I also have a full understanding that it is necessary for a medical flight, for a national plan flight, for teaching flights, for personal flights, and for all the remaining flyings in place, that there is another airport than the Cheflavour airport on the southwest corner that can handle this traffic. I understand that people are not necessarily willing to give up on the coast of Reykjavík until they have something that can replace him. The answer may be to consider the case of Whalesun. I think it's possible that whale trial could be the solution. I have also heard a lot of normal concern about Whalesun, but we will find a solution if we seek it. In this matter, I pray that people will come out of endless pits and find the solution because otherwise we're just arguing about it for another 203/440 or 100 years, and we can't afford it either.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u116	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a plagion proposal for a five-year transport program for 2020-2024. This is vital in this discussion and as we look at a road program ahead to see that the most reasonable solutions are being guided by roads. When discussing transport plans, you first ask yourself, " Is my plan practical? ' Are the goals there practical when it comes to paying for them? Or are the goals just wishful thinking that everyone sees going to be late? What I feel is only a little missing in this discussion is whether the most reasonable goals there is, whether your priorities are correct, etc. Sadly, small - dose surgery, so to speak, has been on the road for far too long. We are to think about the future wisely, especially when we look at the great increase in traffic and the demand for a better and safer road around the country. Many things are taking place, and time is short. I'd like to start by talking specifically about the Smokey Way. Important improvements have been made in the final stages of the Fitum to Leifs Station and then on the Grinsavík Road, which have increased traffic security and should be welcomed. Today, two - fold Sverejanes Ways from Krysuvík Road are being carried out on the road to Kaalsel Road. They are doing well, and that will be the end of the next year. In my opinion, Mr. President, it is unacceptable to the next stage waiting for the double, i.e. From Lonakotti, Hagzagun, Krysavík Road, for the next 10 to 15 years. Remember, every day, more than 20,000 automobiles pass through this road, which is the largest part of the country. It has been shown in the reviews and in the talks and publications provided by the secretary of transportation that the traffic security issues should be highly esteemed in this program. It's normal, of course, but I think it's odd that this dangerous chapter can be excluded on the Smokey Way. With more and more tourists headed for a disaster on this road, the possibility of an accident is at risk. It's just a fact. In times of stress, you simply ask yourself, " How will the situation be there after 10 to 15 years, finally when it is aimed at completing this double? ' Mr. President. I feel utterly unacceptable to postpone this urgent project for a total of 10 or 15 years. Security and traffic pressures should be the exit points when implementing priorities and that my judgment on the Rhine Way should be at the top of the magazine. We can see this in all the numbers available to us as we travel through this road. It would have been all the means of offering this piece in its entirety, i.e. The double from Lonakoti and into Kaalsels Road. This would have included practical management, and no doubt offer would be a more favorable one. Let us not forget that only going to this chapter between the Krísavívíkfjords and the Kaalsel road does not solve the traffic weight. There's gonna be a bottleneck. That is why it is urgent to double the course. This is about 5.5 miles that will be missing when the current double is over. The last cost of the road model reached over 3 billion dollars. and, of course, financial support is needed. There are, however, ways. The state bank is e.g. to go to highly expensive projects, building headquarters on one of the most expensive areas in the country, performed on at least 15 billion bucks. You wonder, " Is it normal and reasonable for a state bank to perform such projects at the same time that circumstances change into financial services? ' As they did in the old days, there will be fewer banks, as they say. Since it has become more or less electronic, many changes lie ahead. This money could have been used with increased interest from the Lands Bank to take necessary road construction, not from headquarters, which I consider most unwise. This area can be sold for high levels of 2 billion. It was bought four years ago by the Lands Bank for 1.5 billion. We see that there are funds that could be used more wisely. I just want to get into what I want to celebrate, though. I'd like to welcome the emphasis that's in the South Sea. I mention, for example. The double between Whoassis and Selephos, it is a very important project and a joy to have it completed in the next two years. I also rejoice not to reduce the number of round bridges, neither to double bridges where there is a great need for it, e.g. in the corner of the sun's sandy road. But general declarations are also included in this program, e.g. In regard to the orbit through the Valley of Micir, for example, searching for ways to finance a highway through the Snow Valley and a tunnel to test Mount in cooperation with private people. Of course, I'm glad it's written down. It's an important project, but it's more general declarations. You don't have it in your mind exactly when to attack the project and how funding will be implemented. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned here in his speech, there is a weakness in this program how much you need to fix a road that is very important. In many places, there are barriers in a very bad condition. We get reports of school cars that have to drive high for an hour on very bad roads. Some parents may not send their children to school or, rarely, because roads are so bad that children simply feel bad about their school cars, as well as because these roads become dangerous in winter. To my judgment, it is very important to try to establish a trustworthy and effective plan to fix this interface. They are the communities that make it very important, and this is a big security point. I also took note of the fact that there is still an open payment on this strategy, even though there has been a loss of the widely discussed plans, and there is a reason to take a closer look at it. I see that time is running out, and I will later come into this discussion, as well as discussing the backup airports at Egls and Akureyri. Air bolts, etc. And then there are these latest reports and ideas about airports at Washingham, which I don't think are wise. But there's got to be a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u117	President. A number of fine points were presented in the speech of some. Senator. In itself, I didn't mean to turn him in, but I can't put up with it, even though the situation is not directly related to a transport plan. Hv. A senator himself offered a dance dance in his speech with the amazing presentation of linking up - his wish - a sale on the property of the Lands Bank and the construction of his headquarters on roads. President. What the hell is this shit? What happy imagination! The senator is such that the minister of finance calls a company that he must not directly interfere with, according to the length rules we set after one piece of bank crash, and says: "Hey, drop what you're going to do, sell the property, my partner in the government needs money. Mr. President, what the hell is this shit? Hv. A senator has been in a hurry to join this pit and say so. He repeatedly points out the confusion in his own talk, but he continues to present this false speech over and over again deliberately. That's poopulism, President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This answer is quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u119	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u120	There's financing here. There is no need for money on important transport projects. A treasure on a bank called the Lands Bank. There's nothing unnatural about looking for ways to finance these projects, huh? A senator, and a government fund has something for this bank to call a tenant policy. The government may decide to sell this bank. It may also decide that this bank doesn't do this expensive work, it's a trust fund, it's decided on the stock of this bank. So this penalty for what? A senator is remarkable. It has also been discussed in this hall to sell banks of the United States, such as Iceland, and it has even been used to finance important transport projects. Is that bullshit? Senator? Is that bullshit? I don't understand this kind of language. I think you should just explain yourself what you mean by this, what you're going on. It is perfectly normal to discuss ways to finance important transport projects. Hv. A senator may just want the public to pay all of this while we have money that isn't new in the bank? It's just that way. I don't understand this presentation from what happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u121	Madam President. It's morning light. A senator doesn't understand my case. Nor does he understand what will happen to tenure policies or possible sales of enterprises owned by the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u122	Who owns the bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u123	Hv. Senator - [[Up to the Bank Management Board?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u124	Silence in the chamber. Hv. There's been a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u125	I know why. A senator knows how to use every trick popu list, e.g. sitting in a hall and crowing so that other senators do not find out. I'm waiting for the highest. President to keep me quiet here. There's probably a tenant policy, and that's what they're doing. You may wonder, " Is this the right thing to do or should I go somewhere else? ' I personally have serious doubts about her, but I'm not going to allow myself to talk here in a discussion about a transport program as if you can just snap your fingers, cancel decisions made at places other than here or in the Ministry of finance to put money in the way. Despite the wind. A senator's mind on politics like that is, fortunately, it's not like this. Remember why the Arm length rules were set. Has a what? A senator forgot? It's a little smaller. That's all a senator's got? Let us calmly discuss what to do with banks or from possible sales. We will discuss how we can use it on road projects. Great, I'll take part in that conversation, but mixing it in a discussion of a five-year transport program is poopulism, and I understand why. A senator does not understand this, for the truth becomes the most intense of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u126	Mr. President. Clearly, it is. A senator doesn't want to discuss it calmly, that's pretty clear. He speaks of who becomes most angry with the truth. Is that just the conclusion? A senator would be so displeased that there were ideas here to be taken in terms of terms where individuals, citizens and citizens of this country have to pay extra fees and add expenses for transport? A treasure belongs to these assets. There's the money that really doesn't make any use of anybody. Is it not wise to make practical use of them in important means of transportation? Then he talks. Senator on poopulism. How may it be that we are going to make use of our assets in important projects is populism, ere. Senator? I don't understand this kind of language. There's nothing wrong with discussing this in this context. The point is, there is no money in this important category, and there is no way to do so. This bank is covered by government funds, is owned by the Bank of Lands, and is fully authorized to sell it and use it for vital transportation. So I'll finish my case. Senator, in my amazing presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u127	V.E.G. President. I'm going to try to calm it down a little bit--no, no, it's fun to do this. However, we will discuss the terms of transport protocols for 2020,2024, a maximum plan of action. A secretary of transportation said it was and it's what it is. I've sat here listening to talks and people have been very perturbing about these matters, how this plan looks, and also the financing ways, how to do better. I've often said about our transportation system that, because of some things, we haven't made our tails yet. Then I'm talking about roads and road transport. There has been a huge change in population and so forth. Iceland and I have increased in number, and since then the number of tourists has increased dramatically. There were some 2.3 million who traveled through the 2018 Cheflavík Airport, a reduced number of them this year. Many of these tourists travel in the roads of the country. Some years ago, a large part of the heavy transport took place on the highways, and this is still the case. There is tremendous pressure on the highways of the country because of heavy trucks, large overtreitlers, which may be 40,650 tons. I can't remember how many trucks are needed against one such car, there's numbers over it - 11,000 says someone in the side room. [[Up to 11,000]] There's a lot of stress going on here. There has been a tremendous increase in road work, but roads have not followed at the pace needed. Hence, all means needed to achieve the tail of the evolution process so that we can be comfortable with transportation. Today, discussions have shown that transportation is one of the major structures in the country or the whole country. People who live in the country do not have much to do with good transportation and people who want to move to a country where they live and such things. So it's a very big thing that we're gonna make this better. Senators have naturally spoken of their own districts. I'm a senator from the Northwestern district, and it's not a good situation. I don't know if it's the worst thing in the district of the country, but at least it's not good. There's been a word on the road and dirt road. I think 70% of the Dallis County roads are malar roads and something more in Hunsa County, over 70% there. We know what the weather has been like on the West, but it is actually looking for better. But better still, if sufficient, and more effective results are needed. I considered this afternoon a big debate during the July 20133/42016, on how to obtain money from tourists - natural rights, charges, and so forth. For some reason, there was a debate in many parts of the world that could not be reached. Is that really sad because tourists are a large part of the people who use the roads of the land and enjoy nature, and they insist on laying on return charges or whatever they want to call them. For some reason, that discussion got out of hand. She didn't reach, as if it had to be, when looking for solutions, any intelligent plan we need to get that discussion back on track and make landing as soon as possible. There's a lot of changes going on with energy sources. The share of fuel and oil costs declines because cars are changing. There's energy exchange in transportation, the power car's taking over. These are, what's to say, luxury problems that are showing up for us in the last few years, and they need to be found flat. There has been much talk about ways to pay back. I'm worried that this could be like the discussion of the coming charges or the natural pass or something, which is very unfortunate. I can see that the cost of cross-cutting, such as through the Hagular tunnel, could bring this about, could speed up projects elsewhere. There was a lot of talk at the time, but somehow it hasn't evolved well enough. In my district, which is the best of the districts, but most likely the few, people are very concerned about how this is developing, e.g. As regards the road through the hunting neck of the Beaches. Waterwater roads were reassigned now. But he's dangerous in school for children mentioned earlier and for everyone driving him, he's just scary. There has been a marked growth of traffic through Sveinnfells Road. And that's how you could continue to count. Travelers have grown largely on the roads of the country, but they do not necessarily know the roads that are bound to wear out. All they do is push GPS and GPS will use the shortest route, and often it's malarkeys that have been exposed to heavy stress and are very difficult to maintain. I see we're running out of time. I was just starting with what I wrote down. I have listened to many talks, and much has been done. I see that I will quietly leave the subject in a discussion about the next program, which is a long - term schedule for transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u128	A respectable president. I've been preparing for a meeting tomorrow in what? The budget and review of the Court's review report on the nature of transport. I just wanted to put in the context of the transport workers there and the state bill according to the transport programme we have here. According to the 2018 Court's review report, the written price of transport workers in each account is 588.6 billion, this is then in the financial account by 2017, adding 21.7 billion, so the binding price of transport workers to 600 billion dollars. I think that's a little too low, because if we look at the whole season, the 15-year period, we have over 600 billion in all. In 15 years, we are, in effect, rebuilding the overall value of the transport system. Clearly, this does not work out. It's interesting to look at this. I guess the prices in the government account are a little too low, so it's said that not quite done all that process. However, this gives us much more accurate tools to evaluate the extent of transport planning in relation to the property of transport workers. This will help us to appreciate, for example. the maintenance costs of more than 50 billion in the first period of transport planning, which is the period we are talking about right now. Well, we're on about then. 2 or 8% per year, based on the number, in a quick mind account, the value of transport workers is currently at the same time. You should ask: Is it normal stress, 2% stress? Is it to be expected of a shorter period of time, in time, in terms of transport workers? You really see the standards and the effects of law on government finance, etc. I'm a member of the Parliament in general. If they were done more on the basis of a transport program, where there is a real cost assessment like all of the other, we might begin to look into the context much better and to understand the relationship, how normal it is to maintain, the annual maintenance costs in a larger context. Do we have too low maintenance costs there? Are we really letting that property of our transportation system fail, if this maintenance money is the basis? Or do we maintain the value of our transport efforts? I've often talked about it, especially about the transport system and the structure that was promised to enter the infrastructure before the last election, that we live at a certain threshold. A report by industrial organizations shows a need for building up and a certain debt for maintenance of up to tens of billions. In all the context, in relation to the infrastructure, in relation to the value of the transport workers we have, who are definitely valuable to our community, and in the context of the policies we are setting up and the goals that the government places in a transport program, what is the meaning of these figures that are presented in comparison to maintaining our property, in paying up the infrastructure, in paying up the need for the activities available to take place in relation to the analysis of the industry? I look forward to seeing this approach in a much wider context in other matters of the council, seeing the long - term methodology used in the transport program, for there is certainly something that would make all our work much more accurate and much less based on guessing what is right in budgets for each year or in developing financial programs. That's what makes the politics more accurate, and we'll stop messing around with the fact that they're calling for sale on national banks and something like that in transport programs. I wanted to draw attention to this because I am reflecting the energy of cost estimate and the context of the law on public financial matters, I see it reflected in the figures that appear to us in a financial account as they should be, i.e. In fiscal accounts and such, what harmony there is between it and the budgets we are planning for the future. This makes us much more specific and better at evaluating whether we are dealing with public money or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u129	Mr. President. I wanted to use these five minutes now and direct my attention to the Environment and Transport Committee on the Management Board. We discussed it a little earlier, and I wanted to add that discussion to what I didn't have time to do earlier. I think the committee, or what. Senators sitting there, possibly the highest. The minister and the Ministry need to improve the use of data to address the cost of the sound of flights in Akureyri. The Invasion Report, Annex 8a, tells us that it will cost some 1,600 million to complete the flight charge referred to as a new flight charge in two phases. The appendix explains that this will only add seats for four or five jets, then for Boing 757. Now I have data, and I've only studied it, because it made me feel that there was something strange about it. When I was reading the whale test report and passing through these 200 pages, it was found that the cost of this project is 1,600 million is to quote the report by the EFLU Lab that she wrote before the Eth for a building program for the Akureyri Airport. There this figure appears, 1,600 million, but these 1,600 million are actually for the airport, as well as for certain other projects on the field, to connect the old and new space, and, in fact, other places on the field. Real funding being spoken of in the new flight barn are 1,275 million, in two phases, and there are not four or five planes that will fit into this new flight barn but 11. The reality is that at every airport, which is 300 to350 million, there are 115 million in costs. I've been through the reports that have been made on these issues, the Whale Test and the EFLU report, and this is the point that I think it's very important to take into consideration. It turns out that this is far less expensive than reported in the Whale test report. When assessing options - and not, I'm going to speak against Egl's standard airport - the right thing to do is not to compare apples and apples to compare apples and oranges in the report and to make wrong numbers. I think this must be the project of the environment and transport committee and the need for the Commission and the Ministry to go through some of these statistics. [[Up front.]] It is possible that humans have been making decisions in the large context based on the wrong data. That's what it looks like. I'm here to discuss this with the members of the Committee and the Ministry and the Minister to get these data and focus on the points I believe are not placed in proper perspective. If we read on page 19. 186 in the Whale test report, Annex 8a, and then the EFLU report designed for the building program for the Akureyri Airport match certain numbers, but it does not really match what is being done with these 1,600 million or more than a number of airports, which are highly recommended when assessing two options, what is most beneficial. I wanted to make that point because, frankly, I got a little nervous last night when I found out that the right things weren't being brought together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u130	Mr. President. Here we discuss a transportation plan, and I am both kindly and obliged to participate in that discussion. It has been recommended, and it is the right thing to say well. It's a matter of trying to fix what you can do better, and it's certainly that our infrastructure is in that place that they need a lot of maintenance because it's been years since we didn't have money to keep them in line for economic collapse. But there is much to learn about the wonderful promises and the like. The transport program is referred to as being fully funded. That's probably what she's doing, considering how she's put forward. But there are also goals that are set in the schedule. They're in security. I'm not standing here today or the other time I've been standing here to make some political storm about it. I've got the background of the flight, and that's where we've gotten used to and worked very hard to say things as they are, not to be more beautiful then, and not to black them up, but to talk about things the way they are. I have taken several previous temporary sitters at the Council in the absence of less than eight percent less, and at that time, there have been repeated situations in which there has been either an emergency or up to that emergency in flight. This may be the first to mention in this system of ours - and I'm going to try to limit this speech to a little bit of the flight phase - that Cheflavor airport is our international airport, our main mystery into the country, and there is the most natural heavy traffic to carry passengers and cargo to and from the field. We tend to, and naturally, to watch a lot of Icellands and until recently, at WOWair, another pilot who had become quite active in Iceland. However, there are a number of other societies that use this field and have been in the range of 26◯28 other societies that have flown in here on a regular basis. Not to be overlooked is the airlines flying between Europe and the United States across the North Atlantic and using Keflavík as a reserve airport. That a plane steers its flight into Cheflavour because of emergency, whether it is technical failure or something that is caused by disease on board or something like that, is unknown and happens regularly and affects the use of the field. We have two zones that overlap, but when pilots make flight plans and plan flights to this airport, two open runways are expected. As a precaution, we have three other airports in Iceland, which are Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Eglish Places. The situation, as a result of what I mentioned at the outset, is that these faults have been distasteful, and much has been said to those who simply do not have an opinion. For example, the airport at Egls, in the condition that the runway there will likely be destroyed after 18 months. It is vital that we build up both in Akureyri and in Egls, now in the plans, in airports, or in the complexways so that there is room for space to be cleared, and perhaps not least at the Garifunas. This is absolutely necessary. This is so as to shorten the time it takes to get more planes into the field if it happens to have to steer flights from Chefvík into Eglís position. International sites, Akureyri and Reykjavík differ from airports to flying characteristics. They are in different weather areas and obstacles, and other factors make this work. In this transport program, Istavia is actually taking over Egls. It's up to me - I haven't provided a solid foot yet, but I may be wrong - that Istavia actually causes the renewal of the Loftur State Airport, but it's supposed to be financed by a moderate price of the airport, as it is said in a transport program. That price is just an extra tax on the pilots who come to use the airport. Once upon a time in the flight, the airlines are competing with the North Atlantic, with little space. It may be noted that if it was no problem for these airlines to raise the cost of about 200, 300, or 400 k. If they had just finished, they might not have mentioned that these airlines will contribute their share to the community in the form of taxes and pay and ask whether they should be considered to be more objective and relevant to these items and to places where each one is making such a contribution. I don't know if that's enough, but I'd like to ask if this is where the presence of NATO has been investigated for construction because they are now entering a greater extent than they have been doing for many years; or the European Union, because we live in a somewhat different setting than Europe, an island country in the North Atlantic. In Europe, there are often airports in nearby countries and distances in my flights, where there are more airports that can serve the secondary level of flying, as Kefavik does and are financed in the same way. But with regard to the area of Reykjavík, I'm worried about it. 3 In the transport program, if you remember correctly, you will find a table that speaks of the total cost and dislocation of international airports. There are an estimated 30 million people in Reykjavík at the airport. ... intheotherairfield. For maintenance and regular renewal, these are a disassembled table on page 2. 4,200 million in the first year and then 488, total for Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Egls, etc., a total of 1,300 million during this five - year period. I think we need to find ways to do better if there's some theoretical possibility of it and finding it. Sadly, the situation today is not okay. It's not said here to have some dramatic performance. It's just a fact, and it's been proved over and over in the last 18◯24 months. That's where the door is near the heels. Since I'm talking about Reykjavík, airports are teaching, training and private flights to most of the world's, as well as most of the domestic flights. The location of the field has been subject to constant uncertainty. Whether the field should go or stay is always being dealt with, and the question is, Should it not find a new place? I have to say on behalf of pilots, I think I can claim that there is no opposition to finding a new field or finding a new location if you can make sure that that airport will be open and ready to take over before Reykjavík's airport is shut down. But the reasons have to be that the airport is, in all respects, just as good or as better. But then we're talking about the amount of money that is so light - headed that I'm just not based on the conflict here at the council about the money being found. I don't know how to find them. Whether you're talking about 8 billion, which might be the lowest number for a small teaching and private airport, up to 300,6,500 billion sizes, which would then be a new international and domestic airport, I think these are potentially unrealistic sizes. But it may be that someone has some means to find this money that I have not yet seen. [[The president calls.]] - I can't get this done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u131	Madam President. It's a pleasure to have a place to say. A senator who is a pilot, who knows very well what he's talking about. I'm not going to go out there, I could have done that on a long story, but we're sure we'll agree that both the airport systems and the flying system will be replaced, and, of course, we're taking the first step in this plan. The continuation depends on a number of factors. Then I'd like to remind you that the transport program is not trapped in stone. Of course, it will be revised, and there will be adjustments in solutions. But I just want to come on to the price of this flight plan we've already discussed, even to the presidents of Istavia and others. In the case of air traffic tickets of 20,000,550,000 dollars. and talked about the amount that may be less than $1 or $1.5 that will be added to the top, i.e. 100 to 200 k., and you look at the interests of the airlines because you have a better supply of the spare airports, whether the Icelandic budget, which is interested in national reserves or the foreign airlines that are using Glasgow and that need to take up extra fuel because of it - to believe that it really is inhibitory to have to collect and return to the state. Then I'll just ask. A member of Parliament: What evidence is there that the amount of zero commuter's worth can actually affect the interests of the airlines and the travellers into Iceland? I can't see them arguing except for the traditional: Yes, we'd have collected it a long time ago if we could. It's an extra charge, and I'm sure the passengers will be happy about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think we're on the basis of any disagreement that these are small in this context mentioned, but we can't forget that if we nose a plane ticket that costs 20,000 bucks. less than half of that taxes and fees. There are taxes and fees that already go to government funds, and that may be what I was trying to put into context. With the price of the money, however, today's low - price airlines are very likely to offer a lower price - but at what cost? It is also at the expense of jobs, at the expense of employees working for them. It is very well known in the sector that people do not have a holiday, not a pension fund, etc. We don't seem to care about that when we buy tickets. We want to keep it for our people here. We'd like to keep this for people who work in Iceland, that they're all on top of the world, but we don't care if somebody else flies around here and treats their employees like that. For this price-separation per se, what I'm pointing out is that there are already considerable taxes. If we're talking about a project like that at Eglish Standard Airport that will be only under 2.5 billion, then it could turn out to be 3◯4 if it were to be done well, it's still a considerable amount of money when all is thought. These funds come from consumer pockets. So I don't think there's a disagreement about a hundred or a $200. is a little coin. I can agree with that. But when you add together, it's a little heavy on tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u133	Thank you. The senator's answer. We may not disagree so much. I just don't intend to agree with it over the head that it's an opportunity for airlines to have them collect 100 or 200 bucks. and that means that they are making a profit of some 21,3 billion simply because this money is being used for them and for consumers. I know exactly what the answer would be if a consumer was asked: Are you willing to pay a hundred to 200 bucks, which aren't even for the bottle you buy, that you have a safe backup airport? Mixing into these low-cost airlines is another arm. Of course, we know their methods, and choosing them or someone else is the choice of consumers. But it is no doubt done by the government's blessing that these airlines, those who mismanage employees, act that way. On the other hand, we have the open political bitch here that those airlines who want to fly here make it if their safety and anything else is okay. When I say otherwise, I don't mean the way I treat staff. I mean machines and stuff like that. So I didn't think it was worth getting them into this. Rather, I simply say: "If the Icelandic government thinks it's appropriate to raise enough money to improve airports and make them a goal of releasing money on other airports, and choose to do so, I don't have any compassion for the pilots who send passengers, but I simply think they should celebrate this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator resists. In any case, I was ◯off topic- - Forgive the wording - in this reply, but I was trying to put things in perspective. So far, tax and tax returns have been paid by all the passengers who have entered the country. 2009 is a decision at the airport, and 2011, if I remember correctly, the price of a second flight price is taken away, and I may not remember it completely, around a billion, and I was supposed to run to this airport. This price is still collected, and nothing else has slipped. Where did that money go?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u135	Keflavour Airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u136	Keflavour Airport. They didn't go to the backup airport. It was a political decision to collect taxes and expenses. The equation had been established that a certain portion of these taxes could be used, but it was decided that in the circumstances we were then, one would not be able to skim, there would have to be a Chefjordur airport. All right. However, now the situation is that the holding society or the official partner of Istavia is well run and self-finished and collects these charges. Is it too much to ask that it really defends part of the funding that was already begun to run to them in this, since it is the basic premise that it can run a Cheflavour airport? I don't think that would be an unfair demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u137	A respectable president. It has been interesting to listen to this discussion tonight. The wide variety of discussions, some flying high, and using the Arctics while others are more earthbound, just as it goes. In effect, this reflects not only the field of interest but perhaps as normal as it is, the ideals they come from. Of course, when all is taken together, we see as the conclusion of the whole review of the issues, how big and how much the situation is, and how much more and in less time we would like to do. The stage that I feel that we have reached in this discussion, although it is certainly the move left, is that people have been classified as taking bigger and more steps in the shortest of the time - and then, I repeat, without becoming too burdensome for the inhabitants of the country, by sharing foreign tourists - we are going to speed up projects on the basis of payment. There have been differing opinions. But you could say there's a landing. Everyone's looking in the same direction. This is reflected in the photographing of the capital package, the construction covenant in the capital area, an ambitious plan, and then in the transport program that we made up in February. You do a little bit of this discussion, like cats around hot rock, and you're even talking about changing the payment of cars because of transport energy exchanges, etc. It's just to face the fact that we're looking at setting up an additional charge in order to speed things up. The benefits to those using these projects, to drive through this cut-off gate, should be most useful to those who usually go through saving time, and fuel spending to become smaller. He's supposed to settle it. I'm concerned that I don't feel that this road program we're dealing with is based on the ideas and content we had in February. I don't think it's much of a problem to reconcile this thing because the basis for it is him, and I've found it in my travels across the country, that it's far more satisfying if this goes on as far as it goes. We can call this national action. That we are all participants in speeding up this building. Thus, in February, the council thought of taking in and out of the capital area, as well as taking them out of the transport program and distributing the funds, starting a remuneration project across the country, and even entering the payment of certain monuments, such as a tunnel, etc. So we would spread these costs evenly. The policy developed by the Parliament in a transport program with the capital package was established. They were taken out of an assignment that was part of a transport program that, of course, brought about a certain change. Yet, there is still a very important project to speed up and simplify the currency that actually turns to the capital area. That is something that can never be settled. So I think that by moving to create the outside tasks, i.e. These main routes, the Sleenes Way, the Southland Road, the Westland Road, into the capital package, or into the same model, move the cutback gate outside, as suggested, that we can approach this and then plan this. Of course, the process depends on whether we can achieve greater peace, but this is what awaits us. The Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee is dealing, and I restitute that it will take some time to reach a decision on this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u138	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synonym to the policy-enforcement process for the 2020 2020 2020-2034. The proposal that the transport program presented here suggests the solution to important transport practices, which some have long been stuck because of controversy or lack of funds. Donations for both maintenance and road service are greatly improved, with a total of well over a billion each year. It is inevitable that the discussion of this later subject is much less like the earlier discussion. These matters cannot be discussed unless, at one time, the choice has been made in two ways. I'm gonna go for a big game, but I'm gonna point to my first talk about the five-year plan. What we're doing on this project, this update to the transport programme, is that we are doing some 214 billion in total, from the current transport programme, either a new project, a new project being moved forward, or a financial advantage, in a way that is not made directly out of a transport program. After the 15 - year period, the most important roads we put on the safety agenda are 2+1, 2+2 on the western road, on the Southland road to Hellu and Smokeynes Way to the airport. In fact, it is true that both Southland and the Rhine Way that the roads will be completed in the first two periods, certainly before 2029, and likely something earlier. It is not true that all the roads here will be built up as 2+2 with different corners and so on. The road suggests that it will cost 40% more in service until traffic reaches 20,000 cars or more. That's why it's suggested. It is only wise to make more money now and then come back later and finish the double. This is the way it is done to form on a new road in the Alfuss, where the foundation is laid and less expensive to add the fourth lane and then turn the rings into a mischievous corner in due time. At the same time, we plan on an even more hurrying plan with a bill on cooperation work, except for this 214 billion. The strategy puts increased emphasis on developing cooperation between private and public in building infrastructure and ensuring that their global recovery results more rapidly. For example, round road north of Selephos, along with a new bridge over Elfs, is suggested to arrive earlier, five, six, seven years earlier, than if we were prioritised in a transport program. Double-engineering Hölfhjörður, ring road around the Mýrdal, and tunnel to Mount Dame as well as the Sunways will be carried out as a cooperation project made with private partners. In addition, Axar Road and its highways around the Hornland will be carried out by a so - called mixed method, a direct contribution of a transport programme under the part of the construction costs and then funding the missing private resources. That part of the project is thus kept outside the budget's financial borders. The willingness of the party to participate in such projects is being investigated and, when possible, will be continued. There will be a bill in the spring council to request permission for Ministers to go that way, and I expect it to be received well in view of the discussion that has been presented and the importance of hurrying the project. Here, too, for the first time for many years, a geograph plan is being provided as part of a transportation program. It assumes that construction will begin in 2022, and it will speed up significantly from the current transport program. By doing so, the long - awaited goal of breaking up wasteland's isolation will soon be reached. They are then expected to have two more tunnels in order to create a ring connection in the East, which could be tolerated by the public's standard of living and strengthen the structure within the region. I therefore respond to the criticism of the United States chairman who spoke of the importance of looking to the whole country. I agree with him that this is a dangerous development. In fact, it has become that 84% of the population live from the White River to the White River, in the major capital area. But both what we are doing in the West and in the East, it is just to create areas that can cope with challenges, further decreases, or, in other words, start building themselves up. We have come to terms with a vision of the future and the solution to the traffic problems of the capital area, a so - called transport contract. The treaty connects the interests of all people, proclaiming a revolution in the construction of transport infrastructure for all routes; the family car, public transportation, walking, and riding. There's an estimate of building up to 120 billion during this 15 - year period. 52 billion for development, less than 50 for urban development in the public transport system, over 8 billion for the construction of walk-and-wheel footpaths, walkways, submerges, and less than 7 for special safety measures, now focusing on traffic control, and will greatly help us improve the flow and other flow- and security functions. We make our first move on public transportation from village to village. The new policy aims to promote public transportation as an alternative to travel from village to village, thus strengthening their foundation and improving their quality of life. The key targets of the policy are the result of a complete air, air and uterine conduction system. Bioavailability to provide information on the routes between the destinations will be increased and the purchase will be easy to obtain. Travellers must be competitive to travel with their own private car. They've been working on it. The course has come, and the export will continue in the years ahead. We're also making our first move on air traffic. We've been flying here for 100 years, and this is our first course. One of the focus of the airport policy is that the construction of the Akureyri and Eglial Airport will be supported by the international airport, which is the policy of the government that has been worked by. The design of the infrastructure will emphasize that they will meet with the best needs of pilots for the national reserve airport. At the same time, it has been negotiated with Istavia that they take up business and construction at the Eglial Airport. There will be room for that, even next year. ... willbeproved at other airports. There is an increase in money to the international flight immediately next year of several hundred million in excess of the 2.5 billion in the service contracts to the flying system but are not broken up in a transport plan, as was shown by the individual case. Senators. This may, of course, include the Akureyri Airport, but I also want to remind you in the context that we put 200 million over a transport program on the ILSs in Akureyri airports to support it as a new flight to the country, not because it was required by the Icelandic pilots and it was necessary for safety, but because it was necessary for foreign pilots who do not know as well when flying to Akureyri to increase their safety and desire to fly to Akureyri. Surely, then, we have survived and are going to continue to do so. In this regard, it was adopted that the State is permitted to buy or rent a house that is used to expand the airport at the Akureyri Airport. In addition to all of this, I agree with the members of the Parliament who have discussed the flight, that we need to find ways to raise funding in the coming years in the maintenance and development of the international airports and thus balance national facilities. The easy way to do so is an important step in that direction. When compared with what an international flight offers, flight costs are high. This system has been adopted in Scotland since 2006, has been well established, and is intended in accordance with the agreed transport program that we take up the next autumn system and that after a year the citizens of the country can benefit from it. Recently, an agreement was signed to further investigate the possible new location of the airport in the capital area, which has been well discussed here today. The treaty ensures the future of the Reykjavík International Airport in Watermelon and that it will continue to its domestic flights and that there will be no further pressure on the field for the next 15-520 years, at least. This makes it possible to build an air base and achieve it effectively. It also emphasizes that there will be an efficient and approved global flying system on one hand and that more gates will be supported, as previously noted. The agreement we made with Reykjavíkurburg, then in a group of people, is also important in the fact that we must not ignore what is unfounded. We need to answer that question so that we can make decisions on the right basis when we are talking about so much money and so much the effect it will have if we made the decision to build a new airport on the southwest corner. If this proves impossible, however, unless it proves true, then it also agrees that it needs to settle down again, for then we will be back at a little bit at zero point unless we have made sure that in that period, Reykjavík's airport must be added to the role that he needs to live up to until he feels as good or as better in the neighborhood. This includes the personal and educational flight that we have long since made contact with the city to move it on the occasion of our discovery. At the same time, we lay the basis for a higher proportion of children's affairs to be put in place in the future development of the transport programme and to take part in the shape of the policy. In one way or another, all inhabitants, wherever they live, will enjoy the building up of this program. At the end of the first period, the circle of the West will be established by means of animal tunnels and the built - up roads of Daringrimur. During the second period, we are adding to the development of the Vestístíddal Way, and hopefully over the next few weeks, the signal will be through the forest of the so - called or Ryolian team, which will be on a built - up road that we have many of us have been waiting for and the building of the base system on the West coast by then at a completely different location. Here's a word. A senator today that he had not seen any great things happen in the last two years, but I can go on a long list with him if he wants to. As a result, the development and development of the urban population in the south of the West will meet an important long-term target of a long-term transport programme, i.e. to connect with a bound discrepand with more than 100 inhabitants and to renew many older bridges, such as the bridge over Olafur, Jackálá, Bridge over the Lagar River, both bridges over the Shiver River and, in fact, more bridges are at the drawing table and others were already invited out in the autumn, if I remember correctly, I think there were five or six bridges on the way to the Hornfjord, why. A senator waiting for construction. A new road between Kotár and Mortion shortens the Ring Road five miles and reduces the number of single bridges on the Ring Road by three. A new road through the third period will shorten the Ring Road by four miles and reduce the number of single bridges on the Ring Road by six, so there is a lot in the pipes. During the second period, there will also be a remake of the Uxa spine. Northeast Route of the Main Valley in the Shivering River will be rebuilt during the second period and at the same time two single bridges will be removed. During the first and second periods, the Coastal Road through a hunting neck is rebuilt, and the Waters Road is rebuilt with bound discreets during the second and third periods. The third period will be so that the South Ring Road will be greatly improved. We have huge increases in our schedule. Long-term road contributions increase by 4.4 billion in the period taking into account that Lakenes Road is now on schedule. But I agree with what. A senator there is a challenge we had to do better in, in Iceland's interface system, more money is needed. So after this discussion about this part of the transport program, I suggest that the Council proposal be made. Environment and Transport Committee and subsequent discussions. I want to end up because I heard quite a discussion about a lot of plans and policies here, explaining to the members of Congress who have not yet realized that Congress is a policy and a 15-year plan is headed for 15 years. A five - year plan of action is better able to subjugated policy and aim for what we are going to do. So it will be explained every day from now on, when policy has been approved, whether or not we will be able to act in harmony with that policy. Of course, waiting for what happens after 15 years is a matter of waiting for the goal to take place in 15 years. It's policy. This is a plan. This is not a promise list or a list of the day before the election, where we say, "See what we did in the last four years. " This is heading for the next 15 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u139	Madam President. I wanted to continue with the discussion of the airport affairs, the conditions of the Service Convention. There's been a deal with Istavia on the Eels Positioning Airport, and then funding will be released. When is it expected that we will hear some disunition on that budget, how will we continue to use it next year? I'm sure there are many who are excited to hear about it. As for the whale test report, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of how this relates, the Whalesun, the Reykjavík airport, and the main organization in Reykjavík, where only the north/southway is expected to be to 2022 and the East/westway to 2024, there are only two years in that the main route of the Reykjavík airport is in the main structure. Is it not necessary, as shown in the agreement, to review it and to find out that the mayor of Reykjavík, the greater part of Reykjavík, changes the main organization in a way that it is expected that Reykjavík's airports will be in Watermight to 1940 during this long process, which is discussed just in the Whale test report, that people can take on this 20 - year process that will need to take place in the report, through weather testing, and other research, and all that comes with it? Now that city's will is not to be made clear before people are severely depressed? This shift of time in the main organization must be clear in the big context, and if it's not there, we're in trouble because we can't have an airfield in the water swamp in the main organization and we're at the same time in this process as some uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator asking for a flight, she surprised me. Of course, in this additional amount of funds, we look to Istavia about the appearance of the service contract and the priorities of projects there. When we realize what extra money we have in addition to our service contract, we will certainly turn to them. But like a dog. A senator knows, and many others here in the hall need a lot more money for us in the local field, and they're many of them just at the last vampire, as we've seen here by some members of the council. It won't be easy to get this money out to what is necessary. I think it'll really help us get from a few hundred million more from next year. With regard to the other query, about the city's main organization, we simply say in this agreement that the current flight operation should be aimed at transporting the aircraft, as it may be a promising option and with the results of financing. So says: ▪ The EEA agrees that there will be a guarantee of security at the Reykjavík airport during the preparation and development of a new airport, including normal maintenance and implementation of human activities in accordance with the requirements of the General Transport Programme. Based on the fact that Reykjavík's airport can continue to serve properly on national flights until a new airport is ready for use. Reykjavíkurborg declares his will in order to ensure that the changes to the world headquarters of Reykjavík are needed in accordance with 2 mg. Section 5. The agreement of this one. So it is. As Minister, I will not tell the city of Reykjavík how it accurately alters its main organization, but it is part of this signing to change the main structure, although it is certainly a priority in the current organization. But I think it's much clearer and the discussion in Iceland will be much smarter when we talk about things the way they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u141	Madam President. Thank you for an introductory answer. So it is clear in this matter who wants the highest. Minister's on it. I wanted to take a turn at Istavia, but a year ago, I think at the end of November last year, Istavia sent a statement to a transportation program that we were doing a year ago, eight to nine pages, where it was shown how badly the airport system was standing, there was also talk about the small airports and the big country, in the base net, and, in fact, in other parts of the country. The review actually told us that this system is handless as it is now. I've talked about funding in previous speeches today, funding the system, and what happened in 2011 when it actually disappeared from the system. Is this high on the list now at the Ministry and the Ministry? A minister to try to fix this, about the many comments to the base of the text that was made in Istavia's review a year ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u142	Madam President. Yeah, we're totally set, and I think we're all agreed that there's no money in there. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, on the charge of payback, and why. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson has talked to me about it before, then, of course, the price was not gone, i.e. The money. They went into the building in Chefavík. They didn't return to build on the reserve airports. We've been thinking about setting up some kind of building fee for the backup system, not next year, but perhaps since 2021. We have an excellent conversation with parties on that subject, Istavia, the Ministry of finance, and others. But we also need, and I'll agree with it and I'll just say it here, that's my opinion, to look for any ways to find more funding in the next financial programme to set priorities on the flight because it's needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u143	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'd like to step aside from this agreement - maybe we're repeating ourselves here, me and my partner, why. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson. I want to reiterate what I said here earlier today, I'm going to the highest. Ministers only for good purposes in this matter. But what I'm worried about is this novelty, not in accordance with the Regulation, but should be a useful index, which should be based on Regulation 464 of 2007. What I'm also concerned about is the phrase in the agreement itself, and it's that even if the city of Reykjavík declares its will to ensure the needed changes to the world's major organization, there is nothing in my hands. You would want to see it fixed down, so the course is definitely staying because the time, if the new level was to be built, would be that long. It is this wording, which states that the work force should submit its report and results before the end of 2021, which is the fast day before the year 2022, at which time it is permitted to close the north/southway and then the second, or last, 2024. It is said of the national flight that if it becomes necessary to continue serving domestic flights properly, the 2013 old agreement says, with the permission of a president: In any case, the Ministry of State and Istavia will be preconceived to find a new location in the vicinity of the city. I'd like to ask the minister: Do we expect these specific aspects of the flight operation to be removed from Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u144	A respectable president. So I'll answer that again, I'd like to read from the deal. It says here, by permission of the President: In line with 2 mgr, the city of Reggasvík declares its will in order to ensure the needed changes to the main organization of Reykjavík. Section 5. The agreement of this one. And what the 2nd? 5. par.? ▪ The EEA agrees that there will be a guarantee of security at the Reykjavík airport during the preparation and development of a new airport, including normal maintenance and implementation of workers in accordance with the requirements of the General transport programme. Based on the fact that Reykjavík's airport can continue to serve properly on national flights until a new airport is ready for use. Of course, that is true of the medical flight. We know the agreement that the teaching and private flight will be established. When we agree to look at Whalesun and if the results go positively, we have a certain building phase that we can make - it's not a good Icelandic one, I'm sorry - and then we have a plan. However, if this two - year study reveals that Whaleshautun is not working, we are in a slightly worse place and need to sit down again. It is guaranteed by this agreement that we will continue to do what we know today for a certain time, go and consider and answer the unscrupulous questions that some have claimed had answered in this or the other direction. But it was found in the study that they were nonstop, questions about weather, flight tests, environmental assessment, other factors, travel time from the Swamp to the City of Land Hospital, or the central city to the management board for international flights. Then, in order to ensure that the time is as fast as possible, things are drawn to the hospital flight. I'd like to state that this agreement will take on those aspects, and Reykjavíkurburg will, of course, do what it takes to fulfill it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u145	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. This may be what I was trying to get out, that it would be crystal clear that the reality of the city's airport and its service to this time for all the activities in it, whether it's a medical flight, a project flight, domestic flight, exercise, or private flight. I think it's very important to make peace. I would also like to reiterate that if this is so, they agree and intend to live up to their understanding. A minister puts in the mood, that's fine. If it turns out that Whaleshud is a considered option, it will be possible to build a good airport that will do all of these roles, it would be a pleasure to finally settle into this big affair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u146	Madam President. It may just be an answer and it won't be long. I agree with what. Senator. This case has been a bit focused on the fact that humans have been in holes right, left, one group has said one thing, and another group has said another. I also see in the last few days that instead of reviewing the results of this report, people are still flaunting their views, old reports, and so forth. We were hoping that all the answers would be presented. They weren't. Then they are used in a clear way to answer them in a group of work where the Southnes community also has a place of great importance and representatives from the Cradle, where Whalesun is largely less than anything. This is about the best interests of the South American community. We may be able to answer these questions, and then we can discuss the discussion in a professional and objective way about what to do when that conclusion is at hand. In the meantime, things are as safe and as safe as possible in the city of Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u147	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. The secretary of the transport history of his proposal for a transport plan for the years 2020-22034. I have to say, from what I've seen in judging, this is an ambitious plan and resolution, a course as the minister said. But I'd like to ask the Minister for some sort of financing. The minister now speaks of the five-year plan being fully rewarded. What's with the financing routes in this long-term policy? What does a minister see in the future? Hv. paritaprevir At the end of his talk about the five - year program, Jón Gunnarsson's son came to realize that a large part of the discussion would have been about a way to obtain a currency, and it may well have been. The one listed here discussed the need to look more at and more along the way. What can the minister see in the future by means of financing pathways so ambitiously called upon?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u148	A respectable president. I'd like to first correct a problem. A senator. That is exactly what I said in the five - year schedule now, in the transport program, 1.5 billion, 2022, 223, and 2024 were missing, according to the current financial program. Of course, there is a financial program every year, so there is a little challenge, and we can review it better if we do. A senator wants it. For financing, as we have just discussed today, the energy exchange in transport that will require us to change the road income system. It has also been shown to be at the highest level. A financial minister has set up a team that aims for the possibility of a new currency system to be adopted right away in 2022. It is not the goal of a review of the revenue model to raise the price of a car owner. Rather, it will be done in a more user - oriented way. We know in increasing numbers that all people who drive environmentally-friendly cars do not pay for the system because they don't pay fuel and diesel costs and as those cars increase, hopefully as the speed increases, our income will gradually decrease and disappear. That's why it's important to come in there. I mentioned the cooperation projects that would be additional. There, co-workering privates, pension funds, investment banks, roadmakers, and others is traveling to the public for special projects that would be fully financed with such funds. Then we could expand the project and speed up projects that are profitable for all, for society, and for the one traveling. There is another choice as soon as it is shortened. As a result, it is a climate positive, as well. That is one aspect of what we are considering in this transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u149	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for these answers and accept them. I'd like to ask the Minister later on on about the Scottish Advisor. He mentioned that she would be coming in next year. In the media, pilots have now talked about their concern that even though this step in the right way is more useful to passengers than the unions that run their companies, they are concerned that this will not help them to keep their business at sea. I also wanted to ask the minister in, because I spoke of them in my talk, the heavy transport to the country. Has there been an analysis of getting the beach cruises back on track?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u150	Madam President. I just want to say that I have not specifically examined them in a special way, but it has been happening in recent years with increasing exports from more ports that it is also used to transport goods between ports in Iceland as well as import. So it has really been happening to some extent. Regarding the Scottish route, it is true that it was not thought of as subsidies to pilots. It is designed to balance the situation of people who live in the country, far from the work we have decided to build here in Reykjavík, whether in the field of health or in the field of culture and education. It's for that. But what we've seen - and that's why it was interesting - is that it stimulates people to take advantage of this journey, which means that flight will be more popular, there will be more who take advantage of it. It also strengthens the platform of pilots.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u151	Madam President. We continue to discuss transport plans, now plan for the next 15 years, to 2034. Not that I'm going to cover this plan into my basement. That's not why I've studied her enough. But there's a lot of work to be done on this programme, re-order projects, and other activities that could be taken care of. I'm expecting a more serious job on the Committee. I had mentioned in a talk earlier this evening that most larger projects are put ahead of time so that most of them will be in the hands of the next one or the next government or even further into the future. Many important and urgent projects will not be planned for years or years. I'm just going to take a closer look at what I had discussed in my earlier talk on the problems facing the process. We are faced with the misunderstanding of all projects, Madam President, that the cost of construction is huge long before the first shovel is taken and a large part of the cost will already be at hand. This is something to consider. What I mentioned earlier, I'm going to go into a little deeper. I think it's important to look for new ways in terms of implementation, i.e. To try to make remarkable projects less expensive, as mentioned in my previous talk, e.g. by simplifying the subsystems that go under the existing roads. I think there's a lot of valuable waste there, Madam President, where this can be done with preemptive units - here I refer to a conversation with those who have become better acquainted - those who are both cheaper and also taking such projects much shorter time, there are conveniences to road users and reduce the risk of accidents during the project. We've got to start getting rid of the bike. Design, drawing, digging, beating even in three places, and just as often waiting for the overthrow to dry - this is something that is both costly and time - consuming and that is supposed to belong to the past. The same could be said of the methods in which simple bridges are built. This can be done in a simpler way than we do now. All of this has been designed repeatedly before. All this march, by my opinion, is absolutely unnecessary. I honestly don't know who this service is, at least. not taxpayers. Madam President. In this talk, I plan to pick up some outstanding projects that have come to mind for many people. I know there are a lot of projects in the road, and I understand the highest. Minister well. He has a real problem setting priorities, and not everything can be done at the same time, and I'll figure it out completely. But it may be trying to think things over a little bit again, as I was referring to the method and other factors that I could mention. I mentioned earlier in the Daffy Way, which is nowhere in this program, and my frustrations are repeated by the government's surrender. I'm going to call you "Rivine Way" from Hafnarfjördur and South at the air station. The main points that will be to be completed are to be completed in the following year 20241⁄22029, which is in my opinion very late compared to the traffic mass in this road. These are the chapters from the terminal and the chapter at Straum. Both of these sections are placed in this time frame, i.e. during the 2nd season of the plan. Regarding Selphos's Selphos route, this eastern plan will be completed 2029, after ten years, but it is now being completed at the end of a section on the east side of Whoville, which is set in 2004-52029. All this exercise, all the way to Selephos, is an urgent means of transportation, especially when looking to a safe policy. The west part of this same road, east of Selephos, i.e. Nearing the capital, from Lake Red Sea to Lawbrow, appears to be according to plan, at least the end-of-the-line procedure should be on the schedule for the period 2024/2029. I have to say, I think it's pretty late. These are roads that have one lane in each direction in the back yard of the capital, where the largest road weighs, and they increase each year. The bridge, the urgent project - the present bridge is a great square, even though only the operators need to make their way. This project is being carried out in the plan and ideas of financing the cost, i.e. 6 billion, in cooperation with private agents, the plan is to finance the project by means of roads, probably, but it is not expected to be funded for this project until 2024, unless it is foreordained. Regarding the bridge of the glacier in the Sunheimia, which is the first single bridge on the highway one from the capital, east: It is on schedule 2020-224, 550 million, which is well, and is long enough, compared with the speed and speed of traffic weight in these areas. The bridge over the Hornground Sea - also expected to cooperate with a private financier, a different name for a tax price, and is expected to be less than 2.5 billion in the project over the next four years, which is likely half of the cost. I want to say the bottom line. Ministers that this is a very urgent project, cutting the way east to Hornafjörður, which also releases some simple bridges that are now on this side of the road. I'll agree with the highest. A secretary of transportation to the shortest road to Moriz and Kotá, but it seems quite long before that happens. The thought of the lowland road in the Myr valley and a tunnel under a mountain of testing is to work on them in cooperation with privates, i.e. financing them with long fees of 6.5-6.8 billion in cooperation with private citizens. At any rate, funding for this project will be expected in the next 15 years except in the initial analysis of the project. I'm also just going to name the Waters Road, which has long become famous for looking rather like a washing board than a road, and unfortunately it's not part of the program until the last period of schedule, 2030,52034. Finally, I'm going to name Land Island. It was a good time to hope. Yesterday or earlier, the decision to conduct an independent assessment of this harbor was accepted, and I'm pretty happy with it and I'd like to state that I'm expecting this assessment to take a short time and the results will come quickly. If the conclusion is to be made, some improvements must be made as soon as possible. It's been put on a lot of money and if it doesn't work, it has to be fixed. The cost of repairing it may be lower than the constant depth of it that has been done in recent years. That's what I want to say. Minister of these matters, which may be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u152	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's talk and just want to have a word with him about something that happened to him, both now and in the previous talk, when he discussed the five - year program, and that is a high cost that often seems even to be a bit more simple and less of a project, if understood. A senator is correct. I just wanted to ask if he'd taken a look at it - because of it. A senator merely concluded that there could be reasons, such as security requirements, or what it would be, in preparation that such projects would be more costly than at times to think - or to compare with the countries we would prefer or would have taken the time to go down on this particular development. I can agree with that with what. A senator may be surprised to learn that these specific projects - whether hikers or even bridges, tunnels under certain roads, something like that - are quite successful in financial programmes when it comes to carrying out the procedure. I'd just like to hear it, by the way. A senator mentioned this twice or comes into this section, whether he took the time to dive into it, and he tried to weigh whether we are following some general evolution, or whether there is something else to look at in the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u153	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question, which is very interesting. It seems that I have met several contractors who may not have been doing these things, but I understand that in other countries this is done in a much simpler way, there are premature units that are often iron bound and meet all requirements. I haven't looked it all into the basement. I have to admit it. However, from an interview with a contractor, it seems that we are even one of the few nations who do this in this complex way, i.e. That's when you pick it up. If it's designed, it's drawn. It's always like an underpass under the road, it's always the same, all you have to do is get under there, run under or walk under, and it's actually a very simple box that's there knocked up, first floor, then walls on both sides and then a roof. Each time you have to wait for the overthrow to dry, and then you have to wait a long time for traffic to happen. The people I've talked to claim that this is not done to most of the world. Rather, preemptive units are moved to the place once the digging is done, they are installed, and then filled in, and they can be run over. I just mentioned it because it's not long since I met a man who also mentioned it. This may be one way to save. I have grown to my eyes the cost of construction, such as calling 300 million. I think it's incredibly capital. And where are we? What's the problem? Are there any men in the system at any kind of meat that is hard to get them out of? I'll think of that as much as I can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u154	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is very opposed. I don't have the answer, but it's very interesting to wonder. We naturally know that we often live in special circumstances. That's not only how we function here, but we want the buildings to work, and there are weather conditions we live in. And then we're a nation that wants to do things well, and I don't think there's any reason - and I don't have that kind of thing in my hands - to be drawing any conclusions from this. But it's interesting to me. It is as if no project is started without nearly hundreds of millions of cost coming right away. It's just very interesting and in view of the scale. A secretary of transportation has had the urgent work ahead of us - and now we are closing in on an environmental and transport committee where I am and what to do. A senator has both seats--it is at least that I know one Mass worth talking about this, whether by getting to the person who knows us or what it is. But it's an interesting scheme, at least, when so much and urgent projects are ahead. As mentioned in the highest grade. Minister will be a challenge to finance this. At least these things have to be kept tight, and I'm glad they're there. A senator has brought this up. In itself, I have no further inquiry. I just wanted to bring this up and say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u155	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for her response, and she agrees with the details she had. Of course, this is very interesting, but I'm sure it's the highest. No doubt a secretary of transportation has heard all of this before and is fully aware of the problem. You just have to work on it, I think, and it's his job. This also applies to bridges, at least smaller bridges, they could be made simpler than design and drawing them and then mowing them with all the priority and time it takes. There are other factors that can be done so that construction can take place more quickly. It is not just to save costs and time; it is also something called road erosion that is largely attributable to heavy transport, not by automobiles, but by far to heavy transport. These vehicles may need to be changed. It matters how wide the tires are. It matters how many aces there are. It matters how many tires there are. You might want to look at it. I think it's a huge funding in trying to reduce road stress, and perhaps some of it can be solved by simple changes in the requirements of heavy cars that are moving dozens of tons along the roads. As experts say, it is these automobiles that break the roads thousands of times more than a few small automobiles, so I think there is a number of factors to be considered. We don't have to make this so complicated and incredibly expensive. We must try to find solutions. I'm glad I'm doing it. A minister sits up for this discussion and hears the suggestions presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u156	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the transport programme in the year 2020, 2020. Like I said, we're going to answer the highest. At least, a minister of the past seems to read the first page of the resolution that I am not deep in, on a rather ambitious plan, although the last speaker mentioned that there are some things to be done better. Committeeed the person standing a malar road and a road road, and several ways that are back in this program, such as Waternes Road and Fishing Nautilus, and so is missing, e.g. There's a wood road in there. I was going to be in my speech earlier on the rest of the Senate and discuss the big picture on transportation. They're one of the biggest infrastructures we have in Iceland. With the permission of the president, I would like to read only what is stated on the first page of the resolution of the vision and the main objective: ▪ Iceland will be the front row of solid and safe structures, powerful rural societies, valuables, and progressive services. A technical link between the country and Iceland in balance with the environment. The main objectives of transport and rural programmes are as follows: The services of transport and communications systems meet the needs of society. Sustainable settlements and rural communities will be all over the country. Such goals are high and should be welcomed. But then there is a question each one that comes forward, and then, first of all, it must be possible to finance such a lofty goal. But having a lofty goal is a fine price. The minister's case also made it clear that this was the first time that a tunnel plan was on the schedule and one flight plan. For many years, I have been very interested in increasing soiling. I have often felt that when new roads are being built, the surface of the tunnel will not be on top but, above all, because it is more expensive. But they are probably no more expensive in the long run because they call for less maintenance. It doesn't snow into the tunnel, and then it saves snow or anything like that. In effect, the road was above the earth because it is inexpensive, but in the long run, the tunnel is certainly much more efficient. I mentioned earlier that I come from the Northwestern District. There are a lot of mountain roads that would solve transportation there if a tunnel were made in more places. There's also something else I want to come in on, and it's about when you're planning a plan, plan, and then you're often planning your projects on things called environmental protection and protection. There is a man who is older than me and more experienced than I have said - in fact, I have not sought for it myself - that the environmental issues about transport have initially been very different from what they are being conducted today. I liked to hear that and put him on a little bit well. This was more important to protect the environment and the natural world than, also, what is often missing in today's discussion, was a talk about community protection and safe transport between communities. I challenge all who want to discuss transport and enter environmental protection to add community protection also because man is part of nature and we need to consider that. We see a frontal route through the Gufldal forces, the Chets Forest Route, which was at its time ready for tender abroad, that I think about 2004. She's been in endless lawsuits and trouble ever since, and she's finally now, hopefully, about to get to work. But it's one of those things that's gone bad with the idea that I'm not going to celebrate until I see it. There is, of course, a way politicians can handle this sort of thing, and there is a law in case of trouble. It may be a little too small, but it may also be a permanent protection. But I find this example of a time when the discussion and all around it has gone into nonsense, let me tell you. Is it really bad? This is something that needs to change in the future, that such projects are not going so badly. It just doesn't work. I asked a minister who answered about the future, what he saw in the financing. He gave the answer quite well, that would be very different times. They've changed very fast now, just in terms of e.g. Energy sources, the number of people and passengers and other factors, as I entered my speech earlier, and surely they tend to change rapidly in the future too, so they need to respond to the facts. Speaking of long-term goals, I think I'm right about the fact that the animal tunnel that is becoming a fact has been on long-term credit. It was their turn and they were started, but it has to be completed - design is actually going to run over the Dufindir, which will be completed, and it is not until 2024 that project could begin. Still, the construction of these tunnels was to be celebrated, and it was only because they were in the program and they were started working on it. So all these plans for the future are good. But they also need to stand firm and must be financed. I'm not gonna take this any further now, because I'm running out of time. I'm going to take a closer look, because it's just the first round. and the matter will be visited by an environment and transport committee that will probably be very well considered and will be pleased to know what comes out of that work. I'll be paying close attention when this comes back to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u157	A respectable president. It seems to me that the end of the previous round is over. for today's transport plan, but we are now discussing a transport plan for the next 15 years, i.e. Until 2034. This has been a very helpful discussion in which road and flight matters have been specifically discussed and perhaps unusually high on the flying issues and it's good that they are really on the schedule, since they are important to society in many ways. However, the five - year schedule discussed a number of subjects and I plan to stop at other things now. I'd like to start by stopping only with projects currently planned on the Westland project and building on the road to the urban island, the goal is to connect all settlements with a bound discrepancies. This is also related in the current transport programme, and in this case we are considering, to attach a barrier to traffic light, although they do not meet the carrier resistance and roadline requirements. This is extremely important for the rural development of many people and especially for children who have traveled to school and to school every day or to attend leisure activities. Of course, this is also the basis for opportunities for employment in the rural area. Similarly, when the roads are bound to break down, they prevent an urban area where food production remains in constant dust - free summers from tarmac roads, such as too many people still live on, since dirt roads are still longer than broken - down roads. In this regard, I find it important to note that in the five-year schedule and in the 15-year plan, the jointly exclusive joints of the interface barrier are reduced number of single bridges, wheel and footpaths, for transportation studies, to local roads, highways outside the road, which are only ways in the highlands that I intend to mention better. It also gives strength to what has been called solid roads and does not fall under defined highways. It's an exclusive unit in truffle, ibex, and fences. These are funding that can be of great importance to projects that are not necessarily divided into the program but we must not forget to stay in shape and go over to the work of the Environment and Transport Committee, how these teams are then divided out and priorities. Then I'm just going to mention the harbors, which, of course, are a very important part of the transport program and are cooperating with the work of the state and rural society. The sea is a key to a valuable creation in many communities, hence all of society. Navigator policy is now being developed for Iceland, which is a very important matter. Substitutions to Refasion Fund, except about a billion each year, strengthening priorities, including the following: with regard to the importance of transport, maintenance needs, marine safety, and practicality. One very important factor to integrate transport is climate change, which is proposed to work in line with the focus of climate change action programmes. This is a matter that we need to thoroughly study in the work of the environment and transport committee. Then there are the public transportation that is a very important project, of great importance, that has a profound impact on the quality of life for the population. Well - organized public transportation is a factor in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and equal access to society's quality and services. This is true whether public transportation is being used on land, air, or uterus. In fact, over the last few years an important experiment in public transportation has been made across the country, i.e. beyond the capital area. Some have gone well, but worse. From that experience, we must continue to learn. Today, the road takes back to public transportation in the country, making it clear that it needs an overall vision for the whole country. However, each part of the country's transport network must also be built up in accordance with the specific status of each area and in cooperation with rural society and the national part of the country. Some examples are that the national body wants to continue to care for the project. There is now a new overall policy on public transport and a follow-up of a transport plan. The policy aims to promote public transportation as an option for travel between the world's population to form a global air, air, and uterus. Then I hope we can start using public transportation all over the country. Finally, I wanted to come in only on the roads, the founding system, and the central highlands. No matter how we view protection and use in the Middle East, there is much work to do, not only to plan how we want to set priorities on the high country, where we want to pay for traffic, how we want to build up roads, and where we want to keep traffic very limited. It's one of the things we have to deal with, I think, on a work and transport committee ahead, how cooperation on that matter will be best worked out in cooperation with the rural society that has an organization in the country. A respectable president. I look forward to working with this process of transportation, which is ambitious, as we have seen. I believe the transport projects are always so great about taking one step at a time, because that's definitely how we can get ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u158	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new law on rental driving. The bill has been in operation for some time, but the overall review of a ten-per-car vehicle law began with an order by an Outfit review of the rules of rental driving in Iceland in October 2017. The staff returned their motions in a report to the Ministry in March 2018. The report concluded that the change in Icelandic law on rental vehicles was inevitable. The bill builds a main policy on the proposals made by the staff in their report. Then the reviews on the subject of the report and early billing have been taken into consideration, as well as on the development of legislation in our neighboring countries. In January 2017, the EFTA Advisory Research of Iceland's rental DMV and potential barriers to its access began. As a result, the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport was written by the Agency, and it was suggested that the surveillance agency considers it possible for national legislation on rental vehicles to involve waste restrictions that did not agree with the international commitments of the state. In Norway, however, current legislation on the United States has already made a brief opinion of rent - vehicle legislation similar to that of the European Commission. The Commission concluded that the Norwegian State would violate its obligations under the EEA Convention on the establishment rights of the EU citizens. The Agency rights include the right to start and pursue an independent job and to set up and run enterprises with conditions that apply to the national law on the citizens of the state of which the establishment is taking place. The bill presented here is the product of the work of the aforementioned Department of Transport and Regional Government and Association and consultation with stakeholders and the general public. The laws and initial assessments of influence were published in the government's consultations on June 19, 2018. In all, there were seven comments received in their consultations from stakeholders and governments, as well as from one individual source. Most of the comments were positive for changes that would open up access to the rental market. Draws to new law on taxi cars were published on May 20, this year, with 12 reports coming through the portal of 15 different sources. Following this discussion, significant changes in the bill were made, in line with the comments made by the manager. That was also true of the first century C.E. changes to the requirements for valuation and the records of the Agency for such evaluations better set up, the terms of the implementation of prices were simplified, the regulations of the Ministers in several places were limited or removed, and arrangements were set up to be recorded by the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder on a satellite basis for each driving. After the rest of the narratives and after changes in the bill series followed the previous consultation process, there were new reports that the bill was published in the consultation puzzle on July 29, 2019. There were nine reviews, followed by some changes. The terms of the bill on the terms of terms and regulations of the regulations of the regulations become even more tight. This bill suggests that there are two types of licenses to drive a cab. It is suggested that the number of job restrictions be removed and that the obligation to commandeer a rental vehicle station will also be removed. Changes are then made in conditions to be allowed to work as a rental driver and the rules for minimal use allow are removed. The aim of the bill I recommend here is primarily to ensure a good access to a more efficient, efficient and safe vehicle service for the public in Iceland. Then the bill is designed to convey laws and rules on rent cars to modern prospects for safe and secure transport, as well as to ensure that the Icelandic state will fulfill its national commitments. If the bill is legal, they'll increase job opportunities for diverse groups. Thus men are much more populous than women today, but in general women are considered more likely to be part - time workers than men. Abolition of minimum license policies is thus meant to give the gender equal bioavailability in the class. There is also a violation of the rules for the applicant's permission to work for a certain number of days in order to have the opportunity to have published permission to grant those who have no personal contact with the class, it would be more possible for others to be allowed out of the job permit. The consumers have called for the introduction of passengers to the services of their country in addition to the services of traditional rental vehicles. Nowhere in the bill is there any direct words on passengers, but by bill this, there are steps that make it possible for passengers who use modern technology to start working here on land to meet other conditions of law. It thus ensures that the views of equally competitive conditions are expected to include drivers working for passengers who employ smartness through the ministry, they must meet all conditions as those who intend to serve as taxi drivers in the standard sense. At that point, passengers will have to submit to the same conditions as rental vehicles, and in reality the bill will be viewed as mobile vehicles. There is no such lack of safety and quality of services in terms of passengers. Now I'm going to explain to you some of the major newcomers and changes that are involved in this bill. First, the bill expects three types of traffic to occur. First, there is a work permit that gives humans the right to work as a taxi driver. Then the bill assumes that there will be a work permit that allows men to run one cab, as well as working as a taxi driver. Finally, there is a work permit for rented vehicles. The work permit under the bill is similar to the permission of an understudy driver under local legislation. It is expected that the license will allow humans the right to operate on a cab without driving their own cab. It does not depend on minimal use requirements, allowing it to operate on cab vehicles whether it is the main job, the part - time job, or the detriment. The license under the bill corresponds to the employment permit in accordance with current rental law. It is expected that the license will allow humans the right to work as a taxi driver and to run their own cab. In this way, the Marketing Authorisation Holder does not require additional work permit. In addition to work permit, there is no license, subject to minimal use requirements. There are significant changes in legal requirements for rental stations and their licenses. It is thus assumed that the obligation of a cab driver to have a payment of a rental car ride will be removed, but the law on leave will still be passed on. It is expected that the number of budget limits allowed to drive a taxi will be removed and the area will be restricted, as this has not been determined. Sources for monitoring the operation are explained and increased from the current law. It is thus assumed that the Agency will be allowed to demand the information from the permit holder needed for observation. The Agency's sources of disembarking are also made clearer and more effective than has been. Changes are made in the conditions candidates need to meet in order to be allowed to drive a cab, including make the candidate's record clear. Mr. President. Now I've been reviewing the key indicators of the bill. This talk does not allow time for details about all the changes included in the bill, but it is clearly explained in the general report. It is important that we successfully revise the law and order of a taxi vehicle. It is a code of laws that involves much of the nation, the consumers as well as the hosts of that service. That will involve many of those who stay here for a short or long time. It is clear that opinions vary on unique exports in the bill, but with its approval, I believe the Icelandic tenet legislation meets the national rights of the state and to provide better security for passengers as well as bus drivers. Then the bill is approved to increase healthy competition and innovation in the article, making conditions better for demand supply. Finally, Mr. President, after 1st. if the case is referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u159	Mr. President. The one that stands here is a special amateur for the taxi market in the second time, especially for the freedom of him. I just want to start by wishing to the highest. Ministers on this matter, congratulations on bringing it through the government, through the Congress classes of the government. The author of this convention proposed a proposal for freedom at a taxi market in 2018, along with members of the Council at Reunion and Pirata. Most recently, it is reported that this issue did not have a career and was now, in effect, shot down by certain members of the government. But it's just what it is. In this suggestion, a minister was assigned to eliminate the maximum number of employment licenses to drive a cab, reduce supplies for their services, and open the market for higher competition, so that main points are mentioned. That suggestion was put to sleep. Environment and transport committees, such as any information on matters that cannot be obtained from the eyes of a board of directors. But now we're here with this administrative secretary of transportation, which is just, at least At first sight, excellent language. After listening to the highest order, I am not out of that view. Minister's going over the case. I have to say, I don't often have a reason to commend the government, especially for the transformation to the liberality, but now I do. They are working toward more freedom in a cab market, which brings benefits to consumers and was long gone. This trend is to be advising the maximum number of allows, reducing their budgets, and opening the market for increased competition, and without compromising any safety requirements, as important. I would like to heighten the fact that this matter, like so many other good things, comes from Europe. There's a reason to remind the House of Congress, and it did the highest. A minister such as this work began because the EFTA, ESA, clinic, began taking initiative at a taxi market, following what she did in Norway and the results there, since the arrangement was similar. She began to take an active look at this market and potential barriers to bioavailability. It is only good to regularly remind us of the benefits that consumers receive from our presence in the European Economic Area. Cabby service is a public transportation case. It is important that we discuss her as such. Like many other fine systems, there is room for reform. For taxis to do their job, the service simply needs to be available and affordable, and in my opinion, healthy competition is the key to achieving them goals, focusing on both competition and competition. In a similar way, a legal flag is designed to raise the price of consumers. If the competition becomes active, if it works, it is easy to imagine that in the context of other improvements being done in public transport, there will be more opportunities to place the private car permanently if they choose, use cabs and buses, and other public transportation to care for their costs and less pressures on our system, so that the environment is not spoken of. Among the rates of present - day cab - market systems, there is the need for permit workers to drive a cab for main work. It has prevented students and individuals with limited ability to work as cab drivers, and it seems to me that they are fixed in this bill, and that's fine. There's a reason to celebrate it. However, the bill assumes that a person can't have more than one car to drive a cab, and I haven't quite figured it out, so on the first sight, why he's being held in jail. But it seems to me that it should be enough that the car meets the conditions that taxis have to meet. It should not matter whether an individual is involved, that such conditions are fulfilled, owned, or produced by more than one car. But I'm assuming we're going to review this on the environment and transport committee. Then, in my opinion, it is welcome to know that at last there are rules of legal fees under the supervision of re-established. According to this bill, prices can be negotiated in advance. A user can ask: How much does the trip from the mall cost to Grafarvog? and have received an answer, and even seen in a applet the drive, and the ultimate cost, instead of the present, is that you sit up, and you see the meter tick, and don't know what the final number will be. Forced cabs to use currency as they have been inhibiting technological development, such as payment through the smartphone program. This, of course, is a key factor in opening an Icelandic market for services companies like Uber and elevators known to many from outside experience. I cut by the highest. A minister noted that this was not a particularly custom. Of course, in taxi cars, like other industry, people who ride the farm may have become some sort of synonym for this service, but Uber and lift are not the beginning and end of all productions in cab service, unless they do. However, the services that these companies provide are based on the freedom of the contract and the advantages of the shared economy, and it is really impossible to discuss urban transportation, especially without considering its benefits and development. However, I would like to make sure that this positive opening of the market is in no way to prevent those making use of that opening work like the rest of the Icelandic labour market in paying pay and other public fees in accordance with law and rules. We have a pretty clear rule of principle here in our country on the matter of independent employment. It is important to bear in mind here and elsewhere that freedom comes with responsibility. I can't wait to keep working with this bill for what it's about. Environmental and Transport Committee. On the other hand, I wonder here, provided the occasion, whether it will be part of the government opposition or part of it to bring this matter through the council, because we know that there is opposition to this matter--or another matter that is materially like--in two of the three administrations, at least According to the word of a member of the council hall over a year ago. Then there were suggestions on the bill of restoration that was considered somewhat radical. The skills of drivers and the safety of passengers were deeply concerned and good if not by cleaning cars inside and outside. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to quote a word or two. Councilmen, e.g. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson who said: If the changes that are being discussed within the group become more or less compatible with this bill, will I be in or opposed? Well, I guess I'll be against you. I hope it doesn't interfere. A senator that this bill is more or less a dream bill for the movers. Second superintendent. paritaprevir Empresse son of Níelsson, said in a discussion about the Council's Recontraction proposal of the Forest and Pirata, by permission of a president: It matters that there are real people driving rent and when people who have been driving for a long time, the way they are, as great as they are, are as special as they are, we can't destroy it. It shows that the purpose of this synonym is to relax the requirements, let in here enterprises that work quite differently, provide a completely different service, perform less demands, etc. and that's what I'm looking for. Mr. President. There will be no more freedom in a cab market on a council resurgence team. The bill has passed through the government council, so most likely it is guaranteed. That is so thought - provoking, and who can reason, whether the members of the council have developed to change their mind in the past few months or whether it was simply a matter of who presented the matter initially. But the matter is good, and hopefully it will work out. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son before the talk. I may not have agreed with everything she said, but many things, as they wish. The Senator spoke in some way. ... abouta so-called share company, share slots, if we can call them Uber and elevator, and mentioned at the same time how cab cars drive and the kind of driving were actually one of the kinds of public transportation. There may be a measure of evidence in this regard. I'd like to introduce the senator to see if she's not worried about that in these cities, perhaps in particular cities in the United States, where Uber automobile concentrations and their increase have been most effective in the use of public transportation. And, contrary to the expectations of this type of shared economy, there has also been an increase in private car ownership. Now I'm not going to have an explanation for this, but I'd like to have a conversation with the senator as to whether it's not a concern and whether the Senator feels that this would be a different procedure on land or whether there are solutions to the seemingly real problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer, these questions, and that's right, I've seen this news. I've seen news too, and it's actually more from Europe, on reverse developments. I haven't looked at it yet, but I can't wait to get a chance to do that when this case comes into the committee because there's some evidence that this has to do with other types of public transportation, i.e. As they are doing well, the goal is to reduce the driving of private cars, even if they choose to take advantage of other options. But in places where public transportation is less powerful, it has the effect of moving people to this use. This is what I've seen so completely at first sight. But you're right. This is one of the interesting things to wonder about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council for the answer to Hanna Katrín Friðriksson You see, this is very interesting. I can tell that I have been one of those who have believed that the phenomenon, at least to some extent, should help us reduce our consumption. Not everyone needs a car. However, the magazine Transportation and Environment, published on September 2, 2019, includes a series of studies that have been conducted, as the senator mentioned, in the United States, which generally indicated the factors I traced back to the past. It is therefore a question of whether the Europeans'consumption patterns are somehow different, and I'm not going to say anything or anything about whether Iceland is in a pattern of consumption of Europe or North America. It can be debated and thought about it. I think culturally we may be more like Europe, but the other I don't know. I have to ask, did the senator wonder if, after an incident, Uber or an elevator actually worked against other public transportation, not knowingly, but somehow other public transportation would not be as effective. The Senator knows as I do that public transportation in many parts of the United States does not have the same strength as in Europe. But that's another story.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u163	Madam President. It's simply a very interesting discussion, and you have little to do but think about things. But it is possible to reason. Let's say that a company offering this service would be active in Reykjavík with the public transportation available today, I think it would be a pretty good job to get root. If the ideas of the government and the authorities in Reykjavík and surrounding rural areas and towns around public transportation had been achieved, I think the situation would be quite different. I'm sure it hangs a lot of time together. I have lived in the United States myself, in a place where I had no choice but to use a private car, except just when I was traveling quite long distances between towns. That's where Uber would have been very useful. I'd rather have taken advantage of easier ways, but I think it's always about a combination, and in that respect, I think we're doing this in a nice fit. And you can also wonder what your initial situation is. We live in Iceland under the circumstances where people live - what were we talking about as a number of cars in a home? These are gigantian numbers. People here are driving a lot of things, so Uber comes in here now and people used it a lot different than in areas where cars are just not big, although they grow to some extent there. This needs to be weighed and assessed, and somehow the comparison must be made as correctly as possible. I'm convinced that this is a step in the right direction, and this arrangement, aside from good public transportation, is the strongest way to reduce individual car traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u164	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing in this bill and saying: Finally, the bill is set free. It's almost frustrating that someone like ESA needs to push us into making cab cars free. But it's nice to think that this has been part of the discussion for some time and a working group at work - although I give the highest commendation. Minister, I think it was a former chief. Jón Gunnarsson's secretary of transportation who set up that task force. But it doesn't change the fact that the case is urgent, and I'm also saying: Thank Guð for ESA, if the situation in our system is so great that it takes to eliminate an overexploitably out-of-law law on driving, where we're going to make a living, despite the right of employment which is written in our constitution, it doses according to territory. This fine work permit is faithful even if that is the case. It is really incredible that we still live today, in 2019 and soon 2020, in this ideologies. That's why I think the situation we have here is very important. I must admit that I have not read myself through it altogether. I'm so happy that it's done, and I have to admit that when a minister went over it, I thought, " Wait, do I still need all this permission? ' There are at least three types of leaves mentioned in this bill. That may be so. Yet, I dare say so. The Environment and Transport Committee to deal with this issue and to consider whether it could be even more simple in some way. I also realize that this is a legal case involving a staff and stakeholders, lawyers, and different viewpoints, of course, being allowed to arise. If I get this straight, that's exactly what we're talking about here. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson made it possible for himself to have had discussions and suggestions on driving a cab. I think we're sharing a little of that viewpoint, and I remember myself when I came into this council to have wanted to handle this matter, but I was very soon told that it had come into this direction and, of course, all the reason to wait for it and not find out. I just thank the fine individuals who participated in this group for work and are happy that this has entered the council and was confident that it would. The Environment and Transport Committee carefully reviews this case, and if anything is, it could even be done further in reducing the booth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u165	Mr. President. Not everything that comes from ESA is good. Not everything is necessary either. This is where we're talking about tightening our shoulders about one class in Iceland and we're going to open ports that almost anybody can drive a cab. We don't need any more cabs in ourselves, Mr. President. There are 671 licenses, and a few more than a thousand car drivers at work, and there are likely around 4,000 cars written on public transportation that are not recorded as taxis but in many ways under taxi laws and are listed as limousines and so on, so there is no shortage of cab cars. I've declared it in the past, and I can only repeat it here that a so-called shared economy is a fine word for tax fraud and we have enough tax fraud in Iceland. The smell of the shared economy system that may have settled down in Iceland for this reason is a bedside with an Airbnb. For six years, nothing was done to register these assets and get them, e.g. Under tax law, until one fine minister took steps - and if thanking - and established a group of measures that led to the registration of one third of these assets. Four years ago, less than 10% of them were registered. And not only is this activity being done in such an unskilled situation but it does not pay taxes and obligations, it still competes with others who pay taxes and duties. I always thought that the Independence Party, a star of free competition, wanted the competition to be equal, that those working in a certain area, or in a particular system were just about equal. It hasn't been the smell of the shared economy that has come to Iceland. We're here with this hotel business that, in most cases, comes back to all their taxes and obligations, and then we have those under the radar who don't pay anything. This is also an example in the food trade, in a small way, in which men who even have foreign labor in terms of women's farms are competing with others who have everything they need. And now, after this experience, we're going to open a window to see that the same thing happens in a cab drive. The last talk quoted in the slogan was ◯ Then step aside to the next. But to keep track of the consequences of this bill, I'm afraid that the booth needs to be added. They need to be added to their surveillance to make sure that those who qualify to be employed are expected by the law. I can't see in the report that there is a recent Swedish report on Swazi's experience from moving cab cars in Sweden in a U.S. State of Freedom, and that report is very black. Sweden is in real trouble and is actually going to try to return, which is always hard, and try to control this business again. I can't see, after I put the window on this bill, I haven't kicked it, anything that convinces me that I'm monitoring anyone who's going to be allowing this operation to be satisfactory. It is now this time that when we're discussing business - and this I thought the independents also knew - business isn't the only thing to do to all who want to do business necessarily much lighter to start a business and start a business because there's another group involved in this. His name is viðskiptavinur. They also need to ensure the safety and right of that group. It is not enough to compromise the requirements and regulations of businessmakers, i.e. Business or business, to cause damage to consumers or to users of the ministry. And that's exactly what I'm afraid will happen if this bill goes through the council quickly. It's true, as I told you before, there's nothing that won't stop this bill, and it's probably for the fine committee it's gonna get, I guess it's gonna be a good one. Environment and transport committee or what. The Economic and Business Committee, to do a very thorough review of the bill and to check to the limit whether or not the points presented here for monitoring, etc. will hold and do. It's very interesting, I must say, now that the days we're opening a window towards Uber is the great city of London banning Uber because there is no good experience of it in London. It's quite remarkable, but it's not like for the first time that me and the Icelanders pick up something that's turned out to be evil elsewhere, just like that. It seems to be hard work and has been done many times, unfortunately. It says here, by permission of the President, in a paper with the bill: In Denmark, taxi vehicles should have obtained payment at a taxi station, but more than one taxi vehicle is not required at each station. Anyone who receives a license must have a situation that can be called a rental car station. This is now one of the things that makes it safe for those who eat, i.e. consumers, passengers. It says here, too, by permission of the President: In Finland, the price of a taxi service has been granted free; employment permits is no longer limited to certain geographic boundaries other than the national borders; no payment is required to have been made on a rental vehicle station. According to reports received from Finland, there is also an extremely difficult situation that eventually strikes passengers, users, on consumers. So I would have advised each committee of this matter to do a very thorough research on the consequences of this increased ◯ Freedom has had in the rest of the North countries. I would also have advised that the committee involved in this case is very well aware that whether the Committee considers that monitoring according to the bill is in a way sufficient, as well as what that surveillance will cost, because all the costs that will fall by the state will eventually be exposed to the prices. When we are buying a service in general, it is that if a backup or service is much cheaper than anyone else has to offer, it is usually because less demands are made. We know all of this well, e.g. from a passenger flight in which such as low - cost airlines do not offer the same services as other societies offering greater service. To reduce the price of any particular service reduces the quality of the ministry. That, too, will be the case. There is no magic solution to run a car service in an inexpensive way that is being done today and if that is so, conditions or requirements under this bill here, e.g. of insurance, should be comparable to the guarantees, e.g. We have cabs today, we're talking about a very significant cost. So where are we going to save those who put up a cab service? Will they buy more cheap fuel? They may not receive less expensive insurance unless the insurance is not the standard others use. They may be able to save by not having to keep the station like others, but like me, " Where are people going to save? ' Where will the savings be? Where is the opportunity for a marvelous reduction in the prices of this market, which is certainly not difficult? And then there is the question of adding to these over 700 licenses and these 4,000 automobiles, which are recorded for transport in Iceland. How many more do we need? I can't see today that there's any lack of this service. That lack is not there, so I warn people that they will too quickly open all ports and eliminate the restrictions on the number of licenses. Also, at my first lecture, I could not see that this is one of the same limits as Norway, i.e. correspondent in rural areas If it's here, I've missed it. I say again: Let us use the experiences of those who have already taken those steps because some of them regret it today, and let's just take it to the point where we don't stumble into a system that works if we don't have to. Let us slow down in this matter, and let us consult with those who are already active in the market. I think it'd be nice too. I hope that when the case goes to the committee, it will receive a very thorough review on the committee that takes it so that we can be sure that we do not have the approval of this bill, in due course, to take steps that we may later regret.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I know we don't agree completely on these matters, but that's not what I was going to discuss. I agree with what. A senator that the matter will have its start, and I don't doubt that both views will be heard at committee meetings and among the members of the committee's meeting. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A senator for the example he handled of Uber in London because this is news coming home. Given the transmission I saw, it was simply a business that broke the law and the rules and therefore lost the license. I wonder what. A senator knows more about it or if he thinks it's a reason to fear that such things happen here. It's in my mind something like if we stopped catching fish because a certain flagship of our company had betrayed our trust. However, we keep fishing, but we try to stop this happening from happening again. I don't know if we've got a sentence down in London, but I don't know if it counts. A senator to see a judgment, if he's fallen, or the decision of the authorities in London to forbid Uber is rather linked to the shared economy that this company runs for rather than simply because men broke those laws and rules and took the consequences?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. She asked if I was afraid of breaking the rules in Iceland. The short answer is: Yes, I'd be afraid of that from experience, e.g. of what I mentioned at the outset. [[Up front.]] It is a very recent example of what happens if we open up to the shared economy. It's working really well for everyone except the state funds. As an old tax collector, I'm not happy with it because I love the money and I want it to have all the money he deserves and deserves. I also remind you of a most recent answer. The secretary of finance for my inquiry, since he or his staff found that in Iceland there are regularly 80 billion floating in the non-required economy. Do I fear that such activities may become a channel for tax fraud and exorbitant treatment? ' I'm sure I'm afraid of that. I'm going to rush like this bill, but I don't quite see how people are going to monitor undisclosed numbers when the allowed number has been cut off, unless we add to the booth that's not popular, but it may be necessary because it's a very difficult procedure for itself. It is, in many respects, more complex than monitoring larger sources. It's more expensive and more difficult in every way. Hence, we need to be alert to the fact that if we are to prevent this from happening, we will need to be alert. A senator asked me if I was afraid, and I said yes, we need to be sure we've finished that jar.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and apologize for not returning the question correctly and understandable because it's not what I was asking. I was asking if what? A senator would not agree that this was a deliberate violation of a particular company rather than an open-up of the dissociative system. It could be opened without law. I'm very sad if the fear of someone breaking the law and rules prevents people from opening things. I want monitors to observe that there are appropriate wood layers, as if I'm going to be in London if this is the case. I'm sure now Uber will appeal. I certainly don't know the matter, but I've read three headlines about it. The reason I'm coming up here is because this is where a bill is put out, with a certain transition in terms of freedom and urgency. Says one senator: "Look what happened in London. Uber's the bad guy. He's opening the law. The fact is, though, that there is a company that violates laws and rules in a designated area where they work. There is no need for passengers to violate laws and regulations, as is the case. There's a senator coming in. But I can totally agree that often and often it is harder to monitor small companies simply because the diversity becomes such that the surveillance system becomes more complex. I think the answer, though, is to respond in some way, not necessarily to expand. Some fences can be placed differently than always picking examples where there is trouble to defend the situation. That's what I'm talking about. Other than that, I thank you for the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u169	Mr. President. I have said this on many occasions during discussions about various matters at the General Assembly that our fears are not to govern our actions, especially our politicians. We should not be afraid of one thing or anything because those who are afraid and who make decisions under such circumstances usually make bad decisions. What I'm saying is, there's hell to guard against them. We are to learn from what has been bad elsewhere, and we should not necessarily step into the same pool as others have been wet. We're supposed to use the experience of this arrangement around us, and as I say again, it's very bad in many places. Then I quote a Swedish report that I don't see in the bill. I think it would be very good for the committee to get this case, and, in fact, necessary, to take this Swedish report for a very careful consideration because it contains experience in opening this system that went badly. Surely we can open it by avoiding what was bad in Sweden. Let us not repeat the mistakes of others completely blindingly. Let us learn from others, but we Icelanders often find it hard to learn from others because we think that we do not have to learn from anyone or anybody else directly from our eyes without seeing rotten voices or colds in front of us. Let us be careful about this. Let us not rush into it, let's work hard, and let's go over it before we take it through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u170	A respectable president. As a matter of fact, I'm happy if you do. paritaprevir Sæmundsson is only softening his position, and I'll agree that, of course, we should take care of this, like any other matter. But I must admit that I felt a lot of fear in speech. A senator, such a certain past desire but a great prospect for the future. I'm a person who speaks for innovation and a vision for the future where the individual gets his or her own good, creating new ideas, and enabling them to be activated and used. That made me feel bad. A senator spoke of increased freedom, in the bill, and had it within a pet group. To me, we're here to talk about professional freedom. I think, as I said, a respectable president, in my first speech, it's amazing that we are still today with a set number of professionals in this class. I simply wondered if anyone would argue today that we should decide how many people are allowed to sell milk and bread or clothing or some other service we use in our daily life, which is what is done in our legal frame today. I can't see, a respectable president, that with the bill available here, which is obviously towards greater freedom of work, somehow the shoulders are being tightened to one class. This involves increasing freedom of choice, yes, improving your employment freedom, promoting innovation, and a future view. I'm not a senator who wants to see state control of the business. I believe the consumer is fully capable of determining the type of service he chooses. I'm not convinced that the reduction in prices is necessarily a drop in quality. It can only mean a different service. I feel that it is extremely important for the consumer to have the freedom to choose the services he thinks are suitable for him. A respectable president. Hv. A senator who spoke before me, Seystein Sæmundsson, spoke of a shared economy and compared it to a tax fraud, put some kind of like a sign between shared economy and tax fraud. You're right, you're right. A senator has mentioned this in a previous discussion of other matters. I feel that there's a need for this information that when I hear the word "diversary economy," I can see innovation, certain economic developments, and, above all, huge environmental issues, something that increases production and reduces waste. It is not new that the members of the Central Party feel that environmental matters are of little importance and that they have not given much emphasis on their presentation here at the council unless they are less important. Hv. A senator asked how many cabs are needed earlier and went over how many are discussed in the Regulation. I say, who's to decide how many cabs we need, if not the consumers and the market? A respectable president. I think it's important that when we discuss this and other matters that obviously are political - that is, of course, politics, is whether we want to improve our job freedom and open the cab market, there's a lot of politics in it. But I have to admit that I sometimes feel that the members of the Central Party decorate themselves with stolen feathers. Then, in particular, I refer to the good slogans, ◯ Get away from me. The members of the Party have even spoken of a decrease in taxes. Hence, it is noteworthy that in these last days, the members of the Central Party have not voted with a decrease in taxes and tried to put it into some other outfit. When it comes to unity, it is not quite suitable, although it is obviously economical, and it is exactly the booth away. The simplicity of a rule book - no, it must not be simply too simple. And now that we talk about freedom and greater freedom in the cab market and professional freedoms, it's not appropriate either. A respectable president. I think we're here with a very good case, which is about increasing our freedom to this market, freedom as if to be present on as many markets as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-04-40.u171	Mr. President. It was an interesting speech just mentioned. The Central Party is not interested in environmental issues, is it? Senator. It's simply wrong. There is not much environmental policy in wanting to increase the number of cars on the streets of Reykjavík, as shown in this bill. And, yes, I said freedom within a pet store, because freedom like that is usually the death of another person. Freeness, which takes many forms. It was a fun way out of the way. A senator with regard to our conduct as members of the Middle Class leading up to the loss of taxes. Well, that's how we cut it off, e.g. So that insurance fees would be dropped by 2 billion, it was quick, even quick, of course. Independence. [[Up front.]] We proposed a more inexpensive search for surgical intervention in a private market made by lndependencers. If we're going to start talking about who's standing with what's been talking about at any given time, I don't think the Independence Party is in that position at this time, joining in the survival of the extremism of health care. He is not quite in a position to shoot at others and accuse them of the lack of freedom, as it were. Hv. A senator said that we had borrowed a slogan that the Independence Party once had named Böndund away. Yeah, there's a little bit of truth in it because the Independence Party has not used that slogan unless it's early and it's 90 years' anniversary or something like that. But in other respects, he has stretched out the book for the past few years at an unprecedented rate. There is good reason for free thinking men and intelligent men to dust off this slogan, although they used it in the past when they were independents. [[Up front.]] There may be certain hurt feelings in this for the fine senator mentioned before me, for of course, independents sense that they have been turned away. The tax system is now involved, and as I say, people have gone into extreme health issues. [[Up front.]] I sense and understand the hurt. There is nothing wrong, however, that when we are making decisions that are very important to people's groups - I am talking about those who work in the ministry and those who use it - we do our best to slow and secure their safety. That's what I'm suggesting here. And I say again: To have only a certain number of cabs on the streets of Reykjavík is an environmental protection. Hv. A senator who spoke before me said that it would be possible to offer a different service in order to be less expensive. Yes, you're right, that's for example. can offer older cars that are less expensive than new cars usually used by cab drivers. There's money to be saved. We can save in maintenance, but this leads to a natural destabilization of the user's safety. There was no fear in what I said before, on the contrary, but we're supposed to learn from the experience, Mr. President. We're here to learn from the experience that the smell of the shared economy that has won as much as possible in Iceland is 30% registered, it doesn't pay taxes by 70%. The latest event at the City Hall of Reykjavík, New York City, and the police, is that this kind of hosting called Airbnbbb is usually the largest site of mansalion and prostitution. Therefore, there is not always a better prescription for freedom, for as I pointed out earlier, so freedom can be the death of another person. That's why we should be careful. The Americans have great things to do. They say if it works, don't fix it. And Iceland's cab service works just fine, Mr. President.
