ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, considers the president to be an agreement that there may be a conference longer than a Senate conference may have. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u2	V.E.G. President. I recommend a commission on bill confirmation of state balance for 2018 on behalf of more of the legal committee. The government account was long established, not directly by the General, but indirectly, as it were, by the approved final financial law which was granted the authority to provide management expenses and high-priority fees between year and year for individual Member States. The State Accounting Act then replaced the final financial law for the first time before 2017, which is based on a change in public financial law. Hence, the current bill is simpler than the previously established bill of 2017. It included the founding budget of the GDP of January 1, 2017, which required special attention on various records. The bill, however, now only in that, is simple, referring to the entire account and wishing that the account is confirmed by the Council. A government accountant has revised the account according to law No. 46/2016, of the State accountant and review of state accounts, and in accordance with international government revision standards. A government accountant has also checked the bill without warning, with the reference that the secretary and district manager believe that its induction will be complete by the end of 2019. It is then the opinion of a government accountant that the account helps to illustrate the financial status of the state at the end of 2018, the survival of the year, and the change of available funds in accordance with official financial laws, No. 123/2015. I'm just going to refer to a committee, a respectable president, to the rules of accounting. It is planned that the end of the induction period would be 2018, but for the first time there is a special summary of the request of the legal committee in a financial account that is of great interest, and I'm going to draw attention to the special statement No. 9, with an excellent analysis, a comparative analysis, of the results of the GFS global report status such as Article 1. The money's up. There is a chance to compare the rest with the rest of it as it is in financial terms. The numbers may vary depending on the parts in there. This overview gives us a very clear picture and gives us an effective comparison. Regarding the success figures of 2018, the business recovery is positive by 84 billion dollars. Incomes were 2,50 billion. and a total expenditure of 856.7 billion. But a positive increase in the number of partners and partners was 91.4 billion. And I'm moving back to work. State funds were graded a total of 2,224 billion dollars, debt, and commitments, except for a total of 1,610 billion dollars. and thus own money is positive at 613 billion dollars. That's an increase of 117 billion. between. As it shows, and if we look at these numbers, the position of the state funds is very strong. Here's the usual tip from a larger part of the budget and a budget was made up of tips to the 2017 state bill which has been responded as if I brought the attention to the chart on the state bill, but I'd rather you would like to see that it was established by the Committee that it was still planned for the bill as it is ready for it to be done at the end of the fall. I think it would be a great improvement, a respectable president, that the bill would appear earlier and even lay low like a financial bill when a council meets in the fall. I'm sure the committee will follow up on that fact. The majority also reiterates the Commission's prior tips on the need for financial and economic legislation to issue a budget of transfers between years prior to approval of a financial bill. The majority consider that a pooled overview of the origin of funds, the provision of the year, the overall breakdown, and the transfer of budgets between years for lawsuits would be very useful, and a review of this index should take place before it comes to the bill's confirmation of a validity bill. I think it would be, in all the financial process, a great improvement and benefit for the council in its manner. There is a very significant accounting report and the importance that it will follow so quickly as well. It contains very helpful information for all who want to learn about it and very useful to a financial committee. The financial committee has often taken that report for special inspection and review, and I expect that we are now. A reexamination report by a state accountant prior to 2018 is provided for a review of state accounts, but it can be said that the report is totally valid regardless of the financial bill. The greater part suggests that the bill will be passed as it is passed, and the General Assembly confirmed it as a bill to legalize the accounts of 2018. Under this opinion, the following column is written. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Sæland Golaand, Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, Njáll Friðbertsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Steinunn, the Þóra of the Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u3	A respectable president. A short, simple question. The case came to the legal committee on December 6. There was a 1st. December 3, and three days later from the budget board. I wondered why the case was not allowed to take traditional reporting, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u4	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. A senator trace. Time was a failure, but as a custom, we had been contacted by the state accountants, the State Department and the Ministry. We stuck to that routine, and we arranged for them to attend a meeting of the Committee, as is true of the members of the greater section. We received a special review of the bill from a government accountant. We stuck to that custom, and we thought it would do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u5	Mr. President. What time did it get? Even if this is not done at the end of the year, it is not about to change into a government account and to give time for regular narratives and general tips in this regard. I don't know where the need to get it right away comes from. In fact, it was overlooked by sources of information that they are not interested in finishing it. Where does the need for a crisis come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u6	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Senator. I didn't talk about the need for a crisis of time, I just talk about that maybe we hadn't had much time to go over the matter rather, since there was no need for it. The bill is simple, as it has been suggested, to confirm the current state bill, revised, and signed without warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and chairman of the budgetary committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, for history. I'd like to be a brief part of this discussion. There is a possibility that a financial committee would like to accept a tax bill for 2018 before it has had the opportunity to analyze the review report of the State Review Committee. As noted, the Agency submitted correction of the review report in the year's remuneration section following the initial review of the report by the Committee. In addition, the committees are going to test the terms of state in an independent manner. In itself, Mr. President, I would like to say that an incompetent bill is approved before any kind of work is done. So I stress that it will be taken the first, on the first occasion, and a financial committee will comment on each of these in a formal report submitted to the council and discuss here. As far as I know, the Chairman and the other committees agree with me on this. This important matter comes into the hands of the council in the middle of financial work, and there is no time to study it well enough to vote for my judgment. For example, does anyone here know what to pay on the commitments of the state's budget every year for the B.C.E. so that the fund works? The budget has a total of 7,948 billion. As for my first observations, I think this number needs to be much higher, because it really agrees on page. 21 In a report on a review of state accounts. And there is a reasonable answer to why government accounts are not published and removed at the same time as in the majority of the countries and companies of the country, i.e. in February or March. That would really be normal. So I believe that there's no other way, Mr. President, than to sit next to the case because there's no time to go into the stitches. This involves a very extensive work that the Parliament has not had enough time to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u8	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees on a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that the same reimbursement rules apply to the production costs in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, as well as to the Member States of the European Economic Area. In the case of an 80% total production cost in Iceland, reimbursement can be applied at 25% of the cost to the EU Member States. The change also contained that warrant for Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. The main purpose of the bill is to motivate moviemakers to attack film projects in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. The committee has discussed the matter. A bill showed that this change would motivate the development of movie projects in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland to the greatest and that it would be an injection for the economy of both countries if this were to happen. It also notes that in a report by the current Industrial and Business Minister from 2015, reimbursement is made to the article which increases its relative status above articles that do not have support. The committee agrees with these views and emphasizes the importance of linking the Western nations together in cultural and artistic activities. The Commission suggests that this bill will improve and that it will be accepted as the same. Ásmundur Friðriksson and María Hjálmarsdóttir were absent at the hearing but signed in accordance with 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under these publications. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, María Hjálmarsdóttir, Njáll Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjonsdóttir, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson. I would like to express my deep satisfaction that the matter has come and will hopefully be agreed on over the next few days, for it will be a delight to be able to maintain it when the Western Council meets for a theme conference in the Faeroy Islands at the end of January next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u9	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The job committee for handling this case as well as other members of the Western Council's National Association. I think it's a big improvement. In fact, a slight dissatisfaction is that so far, we have been able to reimburse some of the cost of film making even if a part of the operation occurs outside Iceland, i.e. In the EEA - this is why there is no support system around the filmmaking works for EEA rules - but our next neighbor in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands did not exist in this Paula, so to speak. I want to know that the idea that the bill comes from people in the movie industry and especially with Greenland. In particular, Greenland has been a very interesting place to go to filming, a unique landscape. That's why I think there's a lot of opportunities here. I'd also like to point out that although we're talking about support systems around the movie sector, this is usually an export, and it's natural so that exports don't pay due taxes when products are exported, but they can be reimbursed in terms of value. As a result, this can be viewed in the same way when talking about the movie sector. Then I also find it important to know that here we are talking about intelligent, creative articles that are part of the industry that at least I think we need to put great emphasis on and that our future economics is primarily by activating our intelligence and creativity. I want to thank you. The job committee for this committee opinion and to have taken care of it, and to say as much as possible. Chairman of the Professional Road Committee, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir: I hope we succeed in doing this before Christmas and can report it to our friends in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands when we meet at a theme conference in the Faeroe Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u10	Mr. President. I think it's a really good thing to do here, and it's all up to you. Yet, I would like to ask. A senator, in view of her words that we are truly focused on this industry, how it is bound up with recent budgets as well as financial management. A senator supported it. It shows that this government, including the W. A senator, is cutting down reimbursement for film making about 30%. The movie and television sector has severely criticized it and talked about shock. I think it's a very peculiar message. A senator and his party are sending into this sector, not a small cut, but a 30% at the same time. A senator comes in a pita and expresses great support and satisfaction with the dilatation that this case calls for - which is positive. I would really like to hear more about how this rhyme with her recent types of communication in this hall when the budget was taken with such a battle when it comes to reimbursement for film making.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u11	A respectable president. I can just admit right here that I'd rather not. It's just that way. But that's why I studied it only in my speech how to watch these reimbursements for films and TV programs. I'm here suggesting that this is really an export product and, as a result, normal, like other export products, not to be paid a merit tax. I realize that there has been a little criticism of this method and that certain sectors are being taken out and placed in a certain supportive setting, such as the TV and movie sector. It has also been criticized that in some way this has been abused, I know. I think that's why I'm at the highest. Industrial, innovation, and travel secretary had this category checked out. A team was working on the report, and they made some adjustments in their aim to get it on a more stable form. I think we need to keep a very close eye on how this is accomplished. I'll admit it just before then. A senator - and thanking him - that, of course, I would have liked not to cut down there. I think it's a very important profession. But I also feel that the amount of money we spend on investments in these matters is very important. I understood these actions so that they were looking back at the conclusions that came out of the working group that had already sought out this environment and had seen specific opportunities for practical management. If I understand correctly, it will be the most important thing on television shows here in Iceland, and it has been criticized that TV programs can both get a scholarship from a movie fund and this reimbursement. Some have suggested that this might be an overlap.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u12	Mr. President. I'm going to let myself get a little rough on my criticism. Hv. A senator says that she would have liked to let go of this cuts. It was a slow game to let him go. In the United States, we had a change in the proposal to cut the exact cuts from reimbursement in filmmaking. Hv. A senator made that adjustment. Hv. A senator is expected to have his own will and could well have supported the changes proposed by the United States when the budget was closed, a suggestion that reimburse film making would not take 30% cuts. Pain needs to be spoken. There's a bit of a hole in it when a senator arrives in a pita and loves this sector and talks about the importance of having a reimbursement arrangement, for at the same time, there is not enough to go. A senator stands for the budget of 30% cuts but acts directly on the no-button and makes a suggestion that exactly means drawing this cut back. Regarding the whole system of this system, both the TV sector and the movie sector have just referred to this arrangement, these legislation that a part of the cost can be reimbursed, is extremely important to this sector. This is a sector that directly makes money for the state. He has drawn to the country many foreign assignments, which have since produced increasing activities that in nature create tax returns, which run the case according to the state box. That is a classic example of the amazing shortness of the government. A senator - and I'm going to be a little rough - to think that it's wise to cut down there, cut backs to films by 30%. [[The president calls.]] It's a scandal, and it's a wet rag in front of a movie and a TV project in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I have to say, I don't think it's a wet barrel. There is no twin to admire this industry and to want to assist, despite the fact that the fund's management and changes in distribution were possible. Well, at least not at all. A senator now has more Congress experience than I have a long experience in politics. I suppose, a respectable president, that we all know inside that making a suggestion around the budget, one single suggestion, and expecting the senators to vote with it, of course, does not work and is a specific play to make certain reactions. The budget stands as a whole pack, and you can't take something out of it and vote for it regardless of the other. It all stands by the way both the earnings and the expenses are spent. Me and what. A senator does not share the same view of how the State's financial situation should be disfellowshipped for long periods of careful talks. A senator was surrounding the budget. I am here to form the view that our budget is pretty good and that we speak very well into the present economic situation. We can see that on all the criteria. We'll see that food companies raise our credit ratings. They appreciate economic prospects. We're looking at the Icelandic and Icelandic wonder how we got out of this massive crisis we were in. So I have to admit, a respectable president, before what? A senator thought that even though I personally wanted to see this aspect in some other way, we are in a very good situation here. But, of course, it must be fully developed, and I'm going to trust those who worked in the team and make these changes that will eventually improve for the article and that we will continue to see a movie and TV show in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u14	A respectable president. I'm glad this bill is passed through 2nd. At a Senate Hall, a bill to legalize the changing of temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland. This bill is remanded, it was first transferred to 149th Parliament, and, as we have seen, it's a representative of the Western Council's National Council, with a flier of 1st. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who has kept the matter firm and focused. There is reason to thank her especially for this. The target of the 1999 law was initially to strengthen national filmmaking by reimburseing the rate of production that fell in this country. It was designed to make Iceland more appealing to the production of films and TVs, as well as to documentarys and to attract moviemakers, and it has certainly been successful with admirable results. In so many ways, this article has turned out to be a turning point. Remunerations have been made available by national and international sources if they meet certain legal requirements. As mentioned earlier, these laws are temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland, but reimbursement for films and TV programs is a state strength and are therefore thought to be a temporary control tool. When the law came into existence in 1999 or was about to be used by someone in a shield, the ESA, the EFTA monitoring agency, made comments, and made changes in the law in harmony with our environment. This temporary system has been extended four times, and it has to be replaced by 2021. So that is in force until the end of 2021. From the time the law went into effect, the remuneration rate has been somewhat different. At first, 14% had come to 25%, but over the years, there have been several variations. As noted, this law can be reimbursed at 25% of the production costs due to production of films or TVs from Iceland. If more than 80% of this production cost has fallen to the country, 20% of the production costs available on the European Economic Area, which is an important factor in this context we speak about today. A respectable president. In October it was. Returning to the National Review of a fine report, the reimbursement system of films, providing suggestions for reforms and substantial details. Public review comes in, including with a suggestion for improvement in four joints. The report states that between 2001●2018 and 2001, some 9.1 billion have been reimbursed. Due to filmmaking, less than 4.5 billion for domestic projects and more than 4.6 billion abroad, a total of 257 projects between 2013 and 297 years of age, 84 film projects, 115 television projects, and 58 documentarys. It's a great point and a wonderful introduction to Icelandic culture and a kind of high - tech sector. During the years, this reimbursement for Icelandic films has continued to grow continuously in 2011. Yet, there is a flash. As noted earlier, this concern is now a major cut down point, so there is a need to turn back as soon as possible because this is an important point. As shown in the case of what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur's son, Ágústsson, is this field that produces so much of it, creating opportunities, knowledge, and potential for young people. Iceland's popularity continues to increase, and in 2014 2016 this reimbursement rate was over 1 billion each year. It's the tops. Those who work in this sector, in documentary films, in filmmaking, and in the production of various television programs, believe that the reimbursement system is of great importance and that it was like a vitamin syringe for film and film art in Iceland. It is an art form, and the benefits to society are immense. We're both starting to have people who know how to operate scripts, and we're starting to produce good TV and movie programs that are accepted around the world. It refers to the type of manuscripts, film films, and, of course, the expression, the interpretation, the game of these images. It's all a process and a school that takes time to master it, and we're achieving admirable results. There is no denying that other arts are starting to look to a comparable payment, such as in the field of music. As mentioned, there are increasing activities that have been built up in knowledge and experience in this sector. When large projects arrive in Iceland, we have the opportunity to implement this article, both through knowledge and technology, and we may be able to obtain a large studio in Iceland, which may be primarily thanks to the fact that we have made the way of this paper, which is highly sophisticated, as mentioned by my name, is fresh and alive, and appeals to young people who are constantly looking for a variety of educational skills. They're both giving up here at home and abroad. As we have seen, a respectable president, filmmaking is a young art article in Iceland, and this is just as true to our cousins and friends in the Faeroe Islands and in Greenland, where there is a growing interest and productive soil for this article. This is a field of interest in growth that we should cooperate with, and when considered, this is, of course, a great interest to us too, that we can impart knowledge and experience, render service to it, and be of great benefit to us. It is safe to say with Faeroe Islands and Greenland that these are the youngest film people in the north. The first serious, played film called Atlantic Rhapsody, which was made in 1989. In fact, it was a skilled female director who controlled it. A new generation of accomplished filmmakers as well as growing the interest of foreign people on the Faeroe Islands, who encouraged the movers to set up a movie center, the Film House, which is designed to invest in domestic filmmaking, promote foreign investment in films and markets as filmmakers. Entries have spent considerable amount of money on this project. As we know, there are not many residents in the Faeroe Islands, they are 50,000. It contains one manufacturing company in films and one TV station, as well as a movie educational center, a cuttlefish. We have a mind of our cousins who work full distances to strengthen the infrastructure and contribute to sustainable development in pesky films. It is, therefore, a pleasure that we take it so well, to give the Faeroes the possibility of being under this hat with us. Greenland has no long movie history either. In 2009, the first game of the Green American film was made. The country, however, has long been, and probably the longest part of film history, the scene for reconnaissance expeditions and camera guides on the magnificent natural world. There's science and nature films, but this movie that art form is also becoming more popular in Greenland. It contains a core of national organisations that are dealing with the management and production of films. The first time in 1979 was the Greenlandites, who produced their own image. Since then, there has been a national short - model work in Greenland, where this trend is now nearing its limit. Greenland Eye's film festival is the largest scene of greeny films and films on Greenland, but neither the Faeroe Islands nor Greenland are members of the EEA, as we have seen, and the cost of film making in this field is not met in any way. Cases have been observed, including in 1st, that this affects the priorities and location of projects in moviemakers, it's clear. A respectable president. If this bill becomes a law, there is high expectations for the change in this area, and the main purpose of this is to encourage moviemakers to engage in film projects in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. Mr. President. I believe there is a good chance of accepting the changes in the law in this regard. This bill, in effect, has the quality, sense, and practicality that all people will benefit from.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u15	Mr. President. I'm not going to have much of a case on this fine subject as discussed here. It is only good to extend this arrangement to our neighbors. Of course, these remunerations cannot be talked about as much as the government has suffered, resulting in intense disappointments and a reflection of unbelievably shortsightedness. It was repeatedly noted that for the first note of a promise far beyond any of the budgets that were being given to the lawsuit on reimbursement and repeatedly warning of interest that this could damage Iceland's reputation on filmmaking in this country, preventing the arrival of large foreign assignments. Of course, when discussing the effect of this work to continue developing this important work, it cannot be overlooked because it is greatly weighed by government plans. What surprises you in such a project is that it has repeatedly been pointed to the link between tourism and film making in this country. In surveys, one fifth of the international tourists who come here reported that the idea arose because of films or programs that had been taken here on land. Our beautiful nature simply sparked an interest in coming and examining the land. At the same time that tourism is dealing with contractions, we decide to cut down on one of the main market routes, we can say, travel services, through the movie sector. The government is being irrefutable. This case is quite fine, but it must, of course, restore the funds needed to pay back to filmmaking in this country if we are to make good use of it, which it certainly has proved to be. Indeed, it has built up flourishing industry around the reimbursement arrangement. I repeat, this case is fine, but the cutting is a disgrace to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u16	President. It's just fine. The whole committee's on it. This just means reimbursement of the cost of film making in Iceland, - 80% in Iceland, 20% in the EEA area - comes in there too. It's just that this bill from the Faeroe Islands and Greenland is being added. These countries are short, and if you are going to this part of the world to take movies, this will increase your chances that they will choose this area. So, in nature, it's just fine. I'm on it. Of the fact that 20% of those who come to Iceland say, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said that after seeing a film that was taken in Iceland, they decided. I may not necessarily agree with the senator, but, yes, it is cutting down the refunds and it is not good for the article, but when it comes to the international tourism in Iceland, it has grown way too fast and beyond the money that has been put in the woods that need to be there, so we don't walk on the country. This was made clear in a report made by the Association for Transport Service asked Capacent to do, such as status analysis, risk analysis. That's where we even came from. so that one of the major factors that carries the risk of overgrowth in the tourism service is that the local people may feel that excessive production is possible. And there's natural access on the land, and so on. There's not been enough funding to build up the tourism service. I'm just talking about it in the light of this fifth of the guys that come here. In view of the situation in which we have been, we do not necessarily need to increase the demand for tourists. So we just keep it in place. But this case, on its own, is just fine, we add Greenland and deliverers into the European Economic Area. If 80% is produced in Iceland, reimbursement is in place as well as a 25% reimbursement of what falls into the EEA and is now approved by this bill, in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u17	A respectable president. I bring a review of a bill to legalize the changing of various food laws (synthesis of principle, Food Fund and EEA regulations). The committee has had a number of visitors, and I'm just gonna go over the committee's opinion. Of course, it is easy to look into the conclusions. The Committee received reviews from Iceland's Farm Group, the Manufacturer Fund of Agriculture, the Health Organization for Reykjavík, the National Marketing Authorisation Agency, the Group of Travel Services, the Group of Enterprises in the Seaside, and the Society of Industrialism, to mention that. The main objective of the bill is to implement the Council and Council Regulation No. 2017/625 as well as simplifying and harmonizing the food process and strengthening and strengthening the production, processing and market of food. Regarding the simple design and induction of European regulations, the Committee was described as a delight in plans for simple regulations and supervision. The committee was told that it was most effective to monitor with the same Rapporteur as best possible. The committee was also advised that the need for basic monitoring should be considered in place of the number of follow-up activities. The committee was told that 11 people throughout the country were on food surveillance. This is one of many conversations. There was also talk about currency and cost, and for the commission, concern was expressed about the new provision of currency. The committee was made aware of the importance of maintaining transparency in the pressures of monitoring fees and of consultation with stakeholders on the general methods used in calculation and remuneration. The majority of the material stresses that receipts for monitoring reflect the actual cost of monitoring and also shows that most of the most urgent monitoring will occur where it is needed. One of the main purposes of this bill was to start the Food Fund. C- team 15. The bill is suggested to establish a diet fund, which is designed to strengthen development and innovation in the production and implementation of food from agriculture and fishing grounds. It will include agricultural products and the AVS research fund in the marine future combined with the Legislation Act on the Agriculture Fund, No. 89/1966, removed. However, with an extension party with a change in the motion I am reading below, this team has been temporarily suspended. The committee's opinion also discusses the homework, and various views were presented to the committee. There was a suggestion for the opportunity for tourism, which was born to increase home-rolling. The committee pointed out that salmon and trout fish were allowed to be fished in the lakes and rivers of the province, working the fish in the established kitchens of restaurants or the hotels of the country that are not allowed to deal with homebound meats. The committee noted that there was a major additive effect between farming and tourism and a great interest in being able to offer fresh meat to hotels throughout the year, but heavy regulations prevent this from being possible. The committee held the view that home slaughtering and sheep throughout the year could cause a revolution in the supply of fresh meat and the produce of sheep farmers. The majority agree that a microspotter and house - to - house design needs to be reviewed to see if there is any room to be extended. Other legal adjustments are presented here and are clearly mentioned in this excellent committee opinion that I'm going to have other things, such as nothing more to go over here, for the sake of time. María Hjálmarsdóttir was absent at the hearing of the committee, but under this opinion, she wrote, in addition to mine as manager, Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, President Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, Njállur Friðbertsson, and Hildardóttir Heirdóttir. Then there is a dignified president, an extension opinion with an adjustment in the bill for the adjustment of various food laws (simplifiedity of regularity, Food Fund and EEA rules) from a greater part of the employment board, and I'm going to read the very brief Commission opinion as follows: ▪ The question has been discussed further. The majority of them points out that in the 10th panel of Parliamentary Recontractions on the Food Security Programme and the Protection of Farms, No. 40/149, the government was assigned to set up a fund with emphasis on the growth of innovation in domestic food production and was proposed to provide Food Fund for that work. In view of the observations made during the deforestation of the Agricultural Fund, a greater contribution is made to the regulations of the bill measuring for the creation of the Food Fund and evaporation Act of the Agriment Fund fall away. However, the majority stress that the preparation of the Food Fund will continue in accordance with what is stated in the above interpretation. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes attributed to this document. Under this view, the publications of Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president and executive, Friðbertsson Trausti Kristjánsdóttir, Benediktsson Beneaktsson, Nælíl Trust Friðertsson, Árnadóttir Eurnar Ájörnótnar, and Sigmundsson. The person standing here would have liked to be on this committee party, but I'm afraid he was away for personal reasons, but I put it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u18	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my share of the employment committee, which actually contains a reference proposal, to the bill discussed here, i.e. The bill to correct the changing of various food laws, more specifically a simple rule book, Food Fund and EEA rules. What we have to do in particular is that the bill, as it lay before us, was even. suggested that the so - called AVS research fund in the fishing industry and the agricultural product fund be joined together in a single fund called Food Fund. There were indications. The committee noted that the agricultural industry fund carried out tasks that did not meet the defined role of the Food Fund as it was proposed in the bill. AVS research fund in the fishing road was also noted to have a high value over the amount of money that has been placed in it. The Committee established the view that the Food Fund would be a competitive fund, like other funds, where applications would be evaluated on various grounds, including taking into account their new sensitivity. It has come to a very large point that made the smaller part of itself impossible to offer but a special opinion, i.e. Yeah. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson and the one standing here. We felt that it had not been shown that there was sufficient evidence to lay the foundation of uniting the two sources. In the minority opinion, we agree that their role has been different so far, and this has, in fact, failed to prove that the benefits will be mutually beneficial. In our committee party, we say that we do not consider reasons to unite these funds. Therefore, I would like to express great satisfaction with the changes that have been made, if I may be allowed to say so, in the majority of the points that are quite excellent in the latter view, which states that the committee further discussed the matter, and in the light of comments that have been made to the decomposition of the Agriment Fund, we now add more of this second round to the bill measuring up the establishment of the Food Fund and evaporation of the Agriment Fund. And I just reiterate my satisfaction with the fact that the more part has changed its mind, and we are entirely united and united in this matter. It is stated in the latter part of the report that most part of the part emphasizes that preparation of the Food Fund in accordance with the requirements of an important recruitment plan for food safety and protection of livestock stocks will continue. We know the many discussions that took place in this regard. Then I'd like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, and let me say that the preparation of the Food Fund may have to be somewhat different from the preparation that was fundamental to the bill being discussed here. It needs to be done carefully and to take care of the viewpoints that have been observed, especially since the product fund of agriculture, but, of course, from other sources as well. There are several other factors mentioned in the Committee's list of my section. First of all, I'd like to say that, of course, it's a pleasure with simple regulations and surveillance. It was noted to the Commission that it was appropriate to simplify the surveillance of the government and was introduced to the Commission that the current arrangements include monitoring of food in the hands of 11 countries across the country and which one was independent of control. This can lead to different activities in monitoring and follow-up, now one of the popular fashions known by man - made regulations. The minority opinion shows that the minority agrees with these opinions on simple regulations and surveillance, and the minority feels that it is appropriate to simplify food surveillance. The minority opinion says, with permission of the President: ▪ It is appropriate to observe a single organisation running a branch in the country as necessary. A better arrangement is to ensure careful monitoring. Counting the smaller part of this to be an essential factor in a simple rule. Then, too, I would like to mention costs and fees. The views presented at the Committee's discretion that in preparing the bill, these factors are lacking in appreciation. The committee was advised that the costs of a community due to internal assessment or the establishment of an information system to provide public surveillance data to the Food Organization have not been evaluated. Also noted that the economic impact on stakeholders has not been evaluated. Furthermore, there was a view that by changing the requirement for reimbursement, the Food Agency is given broad sources of a variety of costs under surveillance costs - as it is said - and is a novelism that I have not seen before but found in the opinion of a smaller section of the surveillance officer. This reduces the capacity of the Agency's management. And maybe the least reason. According to the sum of the figures, the smaller portion is inadequate, and the preparation of currency is lacking. A reminder of the need to evaluate the impact of the bill. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to assume that in this matter, there is an important factor that has to do with the viewpoints of home-rolling as well. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson made a very good and thorough account. In terms of memory, the greater part of the study is said to have to be done on microspheres and homework to see if there is any room to be increased, as well as the need to do not include requirements for quality and hygiene of the product. The smaller section agrees with the fine coverage on this point in the opinion of the greater part. There's a special section on home capitulation that includes it reviews the potential for tourism in rural areas and scattered regions to invite tourists to produce crops in the countryside. Without going too far into it for the sake of time, I just want to mention, Mr. President, that it was permitted to hunt salmon or trout in lakes and rivers in the provinces and work the fish in the approved kitchens or hotels. The same thing was true of slaughtering spirits, geese, and reindeer, although reindeer socks passed through the factory, it was pointed out that such things were even tokens. However, we have come to an important point: It is forbidden to offer domestic meats or other livestock at a home or hotel, and therefore rules for slaughtering animals vary. So here, Mr. President, is a task to be done in a careful manner over the rules of microspheres and home-wages. In my minor opinion, I reiterate our emphasis that there are no demands on quality or hygiene. I believe, Mr. President, that there is a possibility in this matter, regarding this aspect of the matter, of great solidarity in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u19	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a change in the law on food, No. 318, and I just want to follow through on a few words. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson because we're both on professional committees. Since the person standing here wasn't in the area last night and doesn't keep his head down. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson was sitting our backup, w. paritaprevir The masks of Sigmundsson, the meetings, and where he had a change of motion, I would like to, like, a dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson spoke of, describing my pleasure by the change that the AVS Fund and the agricultural products will not be combined. In particular, the Commission's comments on the provision of agricultural projects that did not meet the definition of the Food Fund according to the bill have been made. The committee also noted that the AVS research fund in the fishing road was of far greater value than the funds it had been placed on it. The Committee established the view that the Food Fund will become a competitive fund, like other funds, where applications will be evaluated on various grounds, including their new sensitivity. As a result, the smaller portion of this committee section suggests that there has been insufficient evidence to support the combining of the above two funds. This suggests that the function of the funds has been varied so far, and the benefits have not been demonstrated as to whether they will be united. So the smaller portion is not a cause for unity. This was then changed yesterday and is happy for the one standing here. This shows that on occasion the smaller portion is taken into consideration, which is truly enjoyable. Then I'd like to mention it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson mentioned at the end of his letter to the house. Have I made it a big concern in my view of agricultural growth, especially sheep farming, to be supportive of sheep farmers so that they can be independent and make their meats and slaughter at home in order to demonstrate the traceability and freshness of the food from the beginning and until it reaches the consumer disk. I stress that the council and me politicians can work on getting it so that farmers can slaughter in their homes, that the so - called microspheres can become reality. There is now such a rule under the EEA Convention that humans are expected to live up to it. At the end of the committee's view, we say that the committee presented various viewpoints regarding home entry, which was well tore the majority. The smaller section agrees with the greater need to examine microspheres and house - to - house rules to see if there is any room to be increased. Of course, there must be extreme caution in handling hygiene and other matters, and there is no need for anyone else to do anything else. But the rule is complex and extensive that it has to be simplified. That's what I'm saying. I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u20	President. The committee first discussed this matter at their meeting on November 5, i.e. Changes in various laws on food fields, simple regulations, comfy funds and the EEA rules. The core is to introduce or prepare a food directive, and at the same time, all laws on food are to be placed in one law, as the Ministry expressed it, clear that everything is in one place. Then, too, they were to lower the agricultural product fund and replace the Food Fund. It's been stopped, it's taken out of this package and it may still be processed, but it'll be a self-employed bill. What I wanted to know about the simple rule book and that it is included in a single law section is whether all of the laws incorporated will actually be placed into this new law section or if something will be left behind and also whether or not to go far enough at the introduction that needs to be entered or perhaps too far. Do we go far enough to fulfill our responsibilities, or do we perhaps go too far? The Ministry explained that the bill had been employed in close collaboration with the Food Institute, and it is very certain that something is not to be overlooked and no comment has been made in the process of doing so. The core is being converted into two layers of law. As to the purpose and degree of the law on food, it says, by permission of the president: The purpose of the law is to ensure that, where possible, the quality, safety, and loyalty of food and that the meaning and other information about it are correct and adequate. This should be covered by internal monitoring, risk analysis, the traceability of yields and lips, precautionary measures, education, information sharing, studies, consumer protection and official monitoring. And there is another law code that is being changed, a law on feeding, creaming, and sowing. The law says that "the law of God is the law of God. " ... withauthority of the President's permission: The purpose of these laws is to ensure that, where possible, the safe and healthful supply and quality of food and seed products can be maintained. What these legal classes are about is security, food protection, and health. I also want to be able to have more microspheres. Everyone talks about not to give a discount, etc. But then we are following the supervision we should follow, and they say it's too much. It's not working. There is a standard for what needs to be, and it must cover everyone so that if a microspheres house cannot drive itself with the monitoring that ensures the safety that we are going to have according to our commitments, there must be another way. It is possible, with government support, that microspheres can function. We are now, for example. with very effective animal protection legislation. I think it's quite normal, but since it's beyond what the EEA contract says and more tax for suppliers, there's a competitive race for Icelandic agricultural producers and the normalness of the government to support it. A general law states that animals should be treated properly and costs and is burdensome for farmers. Since that is beyond what others are having to do in the market, i.e. Those who are importing from abroad, from the EEA, feel that the government should support its production. I believe that a lot of people want to do the same thing, and if the people wanted to do it, then the government has to carry the cost to make it comparable. True, we would go beyond what is being done in Europe. I think the government should have that cost if it's the will of the people of the country to be at home with it. We will not sacrifice our food security, but this is what we will do if we are to say: Here is the standard we have agreed on, but there are some who have no need to care for it. A comparison was made on the committee that fish were not carefully monitored and that they had their own supervision. There is no need to get a supervisor to label everything, but the point is that a fish is far from us in evolution. We are not infected with fish's blood, but we can be infected by e.g. Bovine. The reason for the strong monitoring at the time is that cattle were infected. That's why we're doing this. We're doing this so that we have food that's safe. All fish metaphors and lack of supervision, so less surveillance of poultry or mammals does not require biological intervention. It was shown in the Committee that, as I already mentioned, there is a need for equal security issues. It was just mentioned in the Committee that some were not ready for the agricultural production fund to be laid down and adopted, thus delaying, the Food Fund. Otherwise, it's a good bill. I was going to go to the yellow on the product fund of agriculture, i.e. If his delinquency had been stressed, I would sit by. I couldn't see it was good and a lot of people, including The agency of the tourism agency said that it was questionable and could upset certain tasks, so it's fine if you put it off and it works better. However, the agreement of the Regulation to a single food file in order to ensure the safety of consumers in accordance with EU rules is good and I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u21	Mr. President. You know, there's a lot of good things that came out on the bill as the highest level. A marine and agricultural minister proposed that Cells should be adapted to various food laws. The main purpose is to simplify and coordinate food regulations, to promote and strengthen valuables in the production, marketing and implementation of food. This is a very good and noble purpose, and it is long time for this act of order to be simplified, and I will only do so below. On the other hand, what has happened in the case of the committee is retreating - and it made me feel like trouble. A member of the Central Party Winning Paul Jonsson said that it would be nice to have at last taken into account a suggestion from the lesser part. It is worthy to do so, and I especially want to commend the Central Party for the way he has held his case. Actually, I disagree with that approach, but it's obvious that there's a complete retreat on the board of governments when it comes to agriculture. And when the board of directors realizes that the Central Party is literally against the case, they don't want the cohesion of the products fund and the AVS, the fund for increase the value of sea prisoner, only the government groups will disappear from another excellent plan. That's why I'd rather boast about the Central Party. There is a period of anguish that arises from the parties, especially by independent party and forwarding group, when the Middle Ages think of something. This bill was that my particular efforts to take steps into what I think are acceptable, to simplify the management system, to increase and promote one fund into food, and to combine the AVS fund and the agricultural production fund into a powerful Food Fund. The models the Central Party made - no doubt, there are many factors in them, but I believe that they can be addressed together. In this, the left-green, forward-class government, and an independent group of replacements and political positions, I think it was a bit fun and interesting to observe the progress of the situation. Then comes the leading committee. [[Up front.]] The groups had been very careful with visitors. The middle class has identified the weakness of the case, and they simply apply what the middle class says. So I ask members of the Central Party not to be so modest in their approach to this matter. Then I come to my point of view. I supported that very basic thought in the bill, trying to simplify the principle. I think that's important to farmers and food producers. We realize that the system as it is now, on the health care of the local community, and then we have MAST, the EEA by incident, is simply too complicated and too expensive, which ultimately takes on farmers and on the other hand, on the consumers, to which the cost goes. As a result of my lack of efficiency, I feel satisfied with the steps in which I try to take here out of a weak nature in regard to simple regulations. Because while the principle is simplified, there are also strong and rich requirements for agriculture. In my opinion, this is a food - producing parish in Iceland. So I would have liked to see us go through a process that attracts the creation of one powerful Food Fund. All right. Now that the government is taking this to heart, we will see what will be made of, whether one - sided agrienvironmental approach will be the advice or, in fact, the big - mind vision that I find interesting and that was to be a measure of care for the marine evangelical and agricultural ministers, to set the matter up in this way. In my view, the European Food Program is huge, and I have said so many times in this chair. I believe that we have an amazing amount of time in which we have been able to take important steps to advance land development, whether we talk about sheep farming, milk production, or vegetables. There are other things that will be added if we provide the system and producers, farmers, innovation opportunities, distance to develop. We must do so, making use of every opportunity. I don't think they're good enough here, especially after the treatment of the Committee. But okay. I want to come to my criticism of the Food Fund that I think this is an extraordinary opportunity. These are the global interests of food production in the country. We can go further through the marketing of our products, on evolutionary possibilities, and I think it is extremely important that these important sectors through times, seas, and agriculture set the standards and set the same standards as in other sectors. Then I'm talking about the competitive approach in a fund like this. I warn you that we are going to develop a variety of additional rules to meet certain viewpoints. We can meet them through a construction agency, to form. If we are going to continue to strengthen certain areas of interest in certain areas, I can see that this is done through national parish programmes and through a living agency. But the feeding fund, in my opinion, is to be a competitive fund, for it increases trust in the funds, increases confidence in support projects, and encourages the maintenance of those tasks. This will strengthen your industry. We've seen it happen in fishing roads, and it's happened in industry, in innovations, that when they do the routine work that has been built up in Ranni's, it's increasing credibility on the system. I think it's incredibly valuable, especially for agricultural equipment, which, as I say, has enormous access to it. So that's my criticism. I would have liked to see the Food Fund come true, but we'll see what happens. We'll see what happens then this spring, and I want to sharpen the government parties - and after the Middle-City too - to push this matter along with the idea of creating a strong Food Fund for the future applications and not taking sides in the demand for competition within the fund. Regarding the home-rolling that came up a bit on the committee, I feel that it is most exciting to try to increase the opportunity for farmers to produce in their own way the products they manage to produce on their planet. I like a little bit what we're talking about in a committee party more than that, by permission of a president: ▪ For the Committee, a view was made that the annual home slaughter of sheep could produce a revolution on fresh meat and improve the growth of sheep farmers. Such slaughter would not prevent the operation of powerful slaughterhouses and products that continued to play a key role in slaughtering and launching sheep products in the country. It's important, but it didn't have to be just the middle men. It's okay. But I think the middle people need to work and work more in behalf of farmers. I still call for an assessment of the products network at home that will further support farmers, since I have too often been told that farmers have little to say, even though it is always said that the products are owned by farmers. I don't think farmers themselves have much to say about how things turn out there and how they operate on the side of the deforestation. So I would like to encourage the more part to press such a revision with the thought of supporting the freedom and space of farmers in this article. Then comes what I really like about: ▪ The Committee presented a viewpoint that in many parts of Europe it seemed possible to do so. - i.e. Homewreck -- and called for such an arrangement to be authorized here.◯ I am grateful to the majority of the Committee for highlighting that Europe's regulations are not always so burdensome. We must, well meant, keep in mind that we are the exception of the European Union agricultural sector. And what do we do here at home? It is often said that we can only be much more free and do this according to our own heads, but we press on to the market. In this case, we press on to freedom of movement rather than expand it, as has been done to produce the European Union. I've told you so many times. What do we do, e.g. In the milk industry? We do not allow general competitive rules to apply to the milk industry. We're pressing and establishing specific rules about the milk industry because we can allow ourselves to do so, because we're not under some authority that comes from the EEA Convention, because the agricultural part is out of the question. To illustrate, a person often hears of the tremendous burden of order in the European Union. We have room to keep the rules more free than to squeeze them. I'm asking, "What good is that for? " Therefore, I cherish the fact that the majority of the items promote freedom for farmers in Europe, including those in Europe. I'm more than here, and I'd like to encourage the people and the management to look into this in particular. I'd like to agree on a review of a rule book about microspotting and homework. Of course, with regard to food safety, of course. There is no one to talk about, but these steps can be taken, as they have been experienced, including: in Norway, Sweden and other parts of the European Union. So I'm just going on a little extra, I'm pointing out a case as high as I can. The Minister of Justice has made a statement, I think. Unfortunately, it's not passed through the government, and I'm a little afraid that it may not. But it's the smell of pushing for farmers to sell directly from farms, including them. alcohol, if they've been in such production. They're pointing to the brewery, that the rocking houses themselves can sell their production directly from town, directly from farm. Norwegian farmers, for instance, with their famous eel mouse wines made from the Norwegian apples can sell directly from a farm and be specialized in the production of such drinks. I think we should open up to these things and hope to get an opportunity to discuss such matters here. There's a lot to do to increase the variety of agriculture, and I think it'll be the best thing to do by opening the agricultural system, as I've been pointing out here on homework and other factors. I think it opens up, even. by setting up the Food Fund. I think it'll open up a chance for the article, 'cause stillness doesn't give anyone anything. I think that changes are mechanical to innovation, and further offenses for agriculture. I point out that I would have liked to see even more simple in the surveillance system. There's nothing in this case to tell me that the surveillance system, i.e. The effectiveness between the health monitoring of the community and the subsequent MAST and the EEA should not be in some way simplified. I don't see that a process was started to simplify. But that may not be the case. This government is now more famous for putting cases on committees, management groups, or groups of work, and it may be. In that brain, a respectable president, I found much interesting and interesting in this matter, and the most exciting part came in part from the European Union, followed by harmony and simplicity of the principle. I'm sorry that in the context of the Commission, which may not be surprised by the way it is composed, my teeth have been withdrawn from what is important to my opinion of food products in Icelandic society, whether by means of the Food Fund or by increasing the scope of the manufacturer and farmers for increased value. But as I say, I'll support some of this, but not other factors, and I'll think this opportunity is a little out of the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u22	Mr. President. I allow myself to get involved in this discussion about the important bill here on discussion and subsidies and to describe the support of all aspects of the bill, all its features, and particularly the role of simplifying regulations and surveillance. Part of this matter is about change, the establishment of Food Fund. The aim of the Food Fund and ideologies is a core factor in the policy of the government that is now developing Icelandic food production. It was adopted an ambitious strategy, a council resolution, for us, which I did not tire of saying is probably one of the greatest agricultural schemes ever discussed and approved at the World Council in recent years. I especially rejoiced. The decision of the majority of the Committee to stop and examine this bill, the establishment of Food Fund, I think is well planned, although only for a few reasons that I'm going to address. On the other hand, the establishment of the Food Fund, which on the basis of the whole thing, has the goal of simplifying regulations, simplifying our extracurricular activities, the AVS Fund, which is a research fund, and has been very important for many research and development projects and innovations in the region, is simply good for making better use of funds. We should not fear these changes, for by nature a diet fund is just a means to maintain and achieve certain goals. The AVS fund and the agricultural product fund have been sheltered by researchers, very important studies, which have not fit into the large competitive fund. Over the past few years, we have been able to improve the quality of the European Union's work programme, such as the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, and the United States. In this light, we should also take a closer look at the establishment of Food Fund and what aim we are working on with his organization, although only from the fact that the big competitive fund has recently appeared on the Board's web numbers that 965.997% of all their funds are primarily distributed to projects stored in the capital area. They may have some extent of construction around the country, but the address of funding is mainly in the capital area. We've also agreed to discuss a new creation policy. It's an ambitious plan for the induction of a new creation policy at the highest level. The minister of the seminar class has presented it, and I would like to point out that the institution and preparation of the Food Fund must, of course, look also to the factor, how they associate with the goals we are going to set for ourselves there. I'm going to go over a few words on the product fund of agriculture that I know, the nature of the case, quite better than the AVS, though I understand its role and nature. Just about 50 years old, the agricultural fund was established to promote agricultural growth, as indicated by its name. Over the years it has been used on various projects to enforce government policy. He carried on a huge task when overproduction was under way, achieving a greater and better balance between markets and production. He was then handed over funds and projects to promote the legal structure of the jobs. I think we can reasonably and with great pride watch the product fund of agriculture, look over the countryside, and see what it's done. So let's just move on. You can then debate the importance of later years, and for what the funds have been used, but in all the main points, I'm going to say in the General Assembly that it plays a key role in coping with the reduction in traditional habitats and building up other rural activities. I also say that Iceland wasn't the country that was ready to receive a flounder in tourism would not have come to the intense structure that would have even been. The supply fund was supportive, especially in the areas of tourism and tourism farmers and farmers in the countryside, as it turns out. It was most important because of the important support and development of the Agricultural Fund. It thus made it possible for the products fund to be funded directly from a government fund over the years. This will be followed by a review of a contract on the basis of agri-environmental law in 1995 and of the agricultural law which primarily involves the task of supporting agri-environmental services, sex reform work, and other fundamental aspects of agri-gri-environment schemes, the decision to negotiate donations within or within this contract. At the last revised agreement, the arm contract may fall primarily under the job contract and will be saved with its contributions. But I also say that although we talk about the Food Fund and that maybe the nature of his name is that it should be the main concern of looking for food, and that now we should better put our arms around them in the current payment, I don't want to rule it out and I'm absolutely sure that the important things that have been handled by the Agency and the AVS funds have taken care of this and that I have the independent department. It was all unexplored in itself, and it may not have been presented clearly as to what might be possible in this regard. The main issue is that these important building funds in the country must, of course, find a location and follow up. But the big thing is to get on with food production in the country, to integrate these two basic food-food products from which we Iceland own and to be one of our most important jobs in this country, to move forward, whether we look for microspheres, more intensive market knowledge, more professionality in the field of food production, or the opportunities of higher valuables, whether by sea or by country, there are numerous applications to get together better through the Food Fund for their work. Now it may be 2nd. to deal with this, and I think that would be wise in view of the factors I have, including the factors I have. shaving, because of the way we see the flow of the large competitive funds streaming, not necessarily in proportion if we look only at the percentage. It may be so if we break down the population of the country. However, it has to be remembered that university and other research and development sites around the country have lost their focus on applying for funding from that fund. They also need to be supported by institutions to handle this work, for it is certainly not that the rules of these funds are closed but rather that we have to stand behind the basic resources of these schools and developing fields so that they have the power to get the oxygen that the competitive funds can provide. Next, we must not forget the integration with the new creation policy and what opportunity it can give us to advance into the field of development and the pursuit of greater wealth in food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u23	A respectable president. I allow myself to merely get involved in this discussion on bill to legalize various food laws, interesting issues, and good things. I can't help but begin to respond only to words of urgency. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, who received her fine talk that the Central Party had pointed to certain things, and the government groups were falling back on the fact that the Food Fund was going to come true. I thought there was something missing in that story. Mainly, with a combined AVS research fund in the fishing road and the agricultural product fund here, there would have been a really good fund, a food fund, which was a problem. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in just fine. The situation is that because of a technical fault of slipping these funds together, the product fund and the AVS fund, it couldn't be done. I'd just like to remind you in this chair of speech. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir was on the committee's alert before this upcoming committee, so it is said. We're just making some sort of cash, and I'm hoping that once we finish our contracts between Iceland's Farmer Association and the State for review of the frame deal, this fund, the Food Fund, is going to be reality. It is of utmost importance in the future food development project, whether to land or to sea. There's a number of good elements of the bill in the Committee opinion, and I'd like to pause at what concerns home-wages. We've been in a lot of trouble with this aspect, homework products. It has been customary for humans to take their products to public slaughterhouses, deportations, take them home, and work at home for a certain order, and it's been fine. I am its spokesman, along with many others, that we have to revise this, make it easier for humans to be able to invite their customers over for a long time. We can support ourselves either in a microsphere or in a portable slaughterhouse. There's a specific monitoring procedure involved. There is much to learn from what is happening in the Promised Land, the European Union. For example, in the case of those discussing this matter, it has been noted that certain restrictions are given, that I understand, in the European Union, regarding hunting wild pigs. I can't remember any better than getting caught every year, e.g. In Germany alone 400,000 wild pigs They simply attend classes where they learn how to deal with slaughter animals at the early stage which is inevitable after slaughtering and how to treat them. I can see that this should just be a possibility here. We certainly need to develop into these issues, but this is a big opportunity for home-work products and for tourism in the country. It's a professional thing, and whether this applies only to sheep or not, I want to expand it considerably, and I think it's very sensible if we just look at all the productions discussed here. We can talk about pigs, cattle, and even chicken in that context. First of all, I think it's this aspect that we need to try to cross, try to find ways. All of us know the court case today, I think, the case of Sveinn Margeirsson, which is very interesting and will be delighted to observe its progress. I think we're all supposed to be united on that, after that, to simplify a rule in this matter and try to make it possible for humans to practice this process. Most of us who are from the country have probably ever tasted the local meat and were not hurt. Now I'll see what it is. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson grinning. I'm not saying that someone should be given a discount on health requirements or such. Of course, when it comes to talking about the welfare of animals, however, it must always be the best welfare if there are as little changes for the creature from the stomach to the stomach, as one says, to the least of the intervention. A respectable president. I'm not going to say anything any more, but I'd like to emphasize that I hope that the Food Fund will become reality and the government, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson, is now on the job of reevaluating the frame deal that contains a fund so that we can set up a Food Fund, for it is one of the important 17 teams that we agreed on last time, that I remind 54 senators of agreement, in the procedure that covered changes in animal diseases and defenses against them, called raw meats. I challenge us in this house to follow through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u24	Mr. President. I want to say a few words about this subject that we've been discussing. As noted, last night there was an approved continuance review with a change to the job committee. The job board has examined this matter from all sides, and it was a very positive desire to meet those who were concerned about how the supply fund would be lived within the new Food Fund. I think it's a good idea to have landed, so we'll continue to examine it with the farmers how this will be the best time for us to live and bring a new subject next year after that conclusion has come. I'd like to underscore that I feel the thought behind the Food Fund, and that one law applies to all food and food production in Iceland, a very, very progressive step. All articles that have the production of any food layer should see their advantages in uniting it into one food source. True, the role of the funds must be looked to. As it was before, it was good. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, has had a powerful influence, has been strengthened in many areas, and people have been supported by looking to innovation in the countryside. We need to keep on doing so within this fund, which hopefully will start sooner than later. A new bill will come about when we make good peace with how it will be done. With these words I would like to emphasize, as we have learned, that it is in accordance with the government's administration that a Food Fund is established. Look at more valuables, innovations and food security, and all we want to do here in Iceland, promoting domestic production, whether it's fish, vegetables, meat or what else it is. It is very important that each nation has food production in the country, and it is good for climate targets to reduce carbon tracks and to produce as much food as possible here in the country as possible for the need. And not to be overlooked are the blessed mountains of the mountains. It has been mentioned for a long time from this talk. When spoken of something else, it was said to be heavy industry or mountain rumblings. Happily, though, we have come far away from the thought that there is no choice except for heavy industry or mountains. The mountaintops have been useful in rural areas with our ancestors and have proved to be draught, both for slaughtering and for the use of slaughtering. I'd like to reiterate that we have farmers and farmers and all those who produce food in Iceland, and next year we have a bill about a powerful Food Fund that keeps all these articles in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u25	Mr. President. Here we are confirming a complete reversal of the government's budget for the worse. Under budget, the remainder of the state's budget for the year would be 29 billion, 29 billion dollars. Plus this year, the experiment will be up to 15 billion. It is, therefore, more than 43 billion. a swing this year for the worse. Of course, there are many things that could not be anticipated, but this confirms the views of the government from the previous year that the current budget is based on wishful thinking and unrealisticity. The budget is not unpredictable, but it is conditional. Mr. President. The big news here, on the other hand, is a reversal of the government's budget and the need for the state box to get rest from the independence regime. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u26	Mr. President. In this bill, there is still a lack of discipline in the fact that the requirements for funding are met by the bill and what consent at the Council are far too rarely met. This is a requirement for temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable financial requests. All too often, upon observation, it is revealed that in a few cases, the laws of the law meet. It is therefore impossible to accept a request for an extra reserve when it does not meet the above conditions of the law. While financing to the Akureyri Hospital and December supplementation to the desperate will not meet the requirements of the law, we will support these proposals. Then, of course, in view of the greater part of this matter, we will, of course, support the 10,20 languages of religion and did not take care to keep these matters in the way he was to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u27	A respectable president. The most serious comments I made with this fundraiser bill are that these are money extras, according to the old formula. They are not defined or associated with government policies or goals as they are promoted in financial or financial programs. Of course, the budget bill should also follow that format. It makes it very difficult for us to monitor the implementation of budgets, to keep track of the public's resources properly and properly. I agree with the criticism that has been observed in other members of the body on that condition. The program also includes 10,20 languages of religion, the State Church. If that is true, inevitable, unexpected, and so on, it is clearly not part of the contract because it is supposed to be proposed. They would have been very predictable, etc. So, of course, we say no to this, it's not part of any contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u28	A respectable president. There is a fine light in this, describing the dark jungle of taxes, the impairments, and the chain impairments that are present in this budget, the light - coated that the microchip is due 10,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy. It's a giant chicken step, and I hope that the government has seen the light now, stopped taxing, and cut deserts in the future, and made sure that when it gives famine lice, it will return all the way to the tax and in want of it. That's why I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u29	V.E.G. President. Let's be absolutely clear what we're about to vote for. We're paying a vote for a source that's been sought out because of what was unseen for financial work. Let us also keep the context in order because there have been some numbers in the debates since then. senators who before me spoke. This is a variation from the budget, which is 1.6% of total tax rights. If you remove irregular joints, this is 0.5%. Let's just tie this up and figure out what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u30	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be finishing this bill for the budget in 2019 this time. I have to say, because of the words here that have fallen upon the vote that the conclusion reflects some kind of mismanagement of the situation, it is quite the opposite. The government's credit rates have been strengthened and are being strengthened. We've been paying off debts and interest has been dropping. The key point is that we are very equipped to yield in exactly the way that is presented here to us. It is this interaction of public funds with the development of the money policy that we have failed in the past, but we are doing well this time. Therefore, the unemployment rate is no more, so inflation is controlled, so we look forward to the restoration of future losses. We returned 84 billion leftovers last year. [[The president calls.]] Talking about mismanagement on the grounds of this bill is just a misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u31	A respectable president. In the interest of the financial secretary's words, I'd like to say that this is definitely a debt paid off, etc. But wrong debts have also been paid off. Wenders have had to sit on the side for a very long time, and it has cost us, as was seen very recently about, e.g. electronics and the transportation and communication system we have here. The need for structure and maintenance has been ignored in the past decade. The cost has been seen recently, so let's get it straight. It is an excellent way to control debt, but there are other areas in which there are debt and in other contexts that have been ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u32	Mr. President. I state that here is an old minister of finance from the past, not the current president of the Generals. I'd like to say for my part that these are perfectly normal allowances considering that we're dealing with a relatively rapid change of pace, i.e. to go from much annual interest down into slow motion, which, fortunately, does not shrink but slow down in the economy. This results in a loss of income and increases in expenses, e.g. through increased unemployment. As a result, in my opinion both the budget and the budget of the next year, reflect, in addition to having normal explanations, a very reasonable reaction to this change of pace, i.e. Using the government's terms to counteract the espionage and to soften the economy and the community. As a Keynist, I must say that I am particularly pleased with this reaction and think they are correct. It is not irresponsible to have the courage to use terms of government such as these. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u33	Mr. President. I just want to say that I don't think that this is the case with a mild blow. There was nothing especially being softened when the blow hit him. A senator proposed that the government stand not to leave disability behind the minimum wage. There was no particular mild hit on seniors at the time. A government senator and his associates suggested that the government's opposition not leave invalids and older citizens under the minimum wage. I think it's a panic when you're up to 43 billion, the highest. Secretary of finance, especially in view of the fact that a year ago we in the United States pointed out that funding is based on wishful thinking and unrealisticity. It wasn't only the United States that pointed to it, it was also the employment community, the National Union of Iceland, Business Business and other people. In fact, the independent financial body appointed by the minister himself indicated that the basis is unrealistic, which is why we see here a total of 43 billion dollars. a fluke to the worse, and that's a sign of mismanagement, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u34	Mr. President. Because of the words that have fallen here, it is proper to point to the obvious in this situation. These amendments are 1.6% of the government funds. Then, if we add reserves, both general reserves and in addition to special reserves, we'll fall in a familiar pattern where the drive's out of the order of 3◯5%. In fact, we have not yet been given up on the reserves of the reserves, but it is simply the historical advantage that was trying to deal with the laws on public finances. It is the forward drive that the Independence Party was often stuck in during the 2013s of the United States and now we're falling back into that old one, unfortunately. The reason for this forward drive is just forethought of the government. It was repeatedly warned that the economic leaders it worked for were marked by too much optimism. It was assumed, not by responsible financial management, but by complete complacency. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u35	A respectable president. Hv. A senator who last spoke of this is no longer the executive director of the interest organization that keeps an eye on the job life. Speaking about driving a career in public finances will not be compared with running a business that has the goal of returning the rest. We're here with a completely different objective. We're looking to balance the pace. We can take a nap when it's convenient. That is a reasonable conclusion to the conditions in society today that the State will take up a short period of time, as we used the good years to pay off much change and pay off debt. That is how we have conducted our public finances, and when asked how we have been able to ask questions about the legal rights of the households, about inflation, about government credit, about economic growth, employment opportunities, etc. [[The president calls.]] It is not the sole measure on which the zero Kingdom will be restored that year. In some circumstances, that is a good conclusion. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u36	Mr. President. Because of words at the top. I'd like to say that it is right to bear in mind that the balance of the state funds right now is followed by one of the longest economic growths we've gone through and that we're not even in a recession yet, but we're still in a corner, and the government, in fact, has a financial policy to compromise despite the foretold economic growth of the coming years out of the length of this financial policy more and less. If this tail were created due to a substantial injection of a government fund in an unwanted public investment, I would be here no doubt rejoicing, but as we can see in the resolution of public funds published for the first nine months of this morning, an official investment will be gathered at the time we would most need it. This sliding process is simply based on the unprecedented expansion, the evaporation of the state of the state that this government has been leading since its arrival, and that's why we are in trouble. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u37	Mr. President. Of course, we support this suggestion, but this Christmas bonus is shamefully low, he is tiny. This is a group that was left in the unprecedented goods of the past few years, and it does not enjoy the elevations of living contracts. The organization suggested that this group have the same rise that made the adjustment to 13 billion. What the government and the Supreme. A financial minister found at the bottom of the box was 210 million to give these people a Christmas bonus that will not be enough to buy Christmas trees for Christmas. This is shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u38	Mr. President. By permission of the President: ▪ All case groups dealing with disabled people and micro-organists are starving... This is a direct quote in the review of the Corporate Community on the budgetary of this government. Here on the budget, this is adding a little bit, Mr. President, these are only 2% of what the government put here the other day, and members of the left green, forward, and independent party are down. It is still left in question, both when it comes to reforms that other groups received in biographies and when it is time to leave microorganism far below the minimum wage limit. We can do much better than this little adjustment proposal makes, but to control it, 20,000 micromangers get together in terms of less than four retirement contracts a government police officer. Mr. President. It doesn't matter who asks this government for money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u39	A respectable president. As has been repeated, there is no surprise, unforeseen, or temporary use of this arrangement here. It has been observed that a decline in the collapse of these cases was held in order to increase the state's standing to some extent in order to make future contracts in some other way. I don't know why it's here if it's not unexpected or anything like that, if there was really some other amount to be there to make a deal. This means that there's over 1 billion in the amount left over there in the budget bill. If this was to do something better with the church, I don't see that it went very well with the additional convention we've been discussing over the past few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u40	Mr. President. By agreement between Church and State since 1907, the State was given oversight of the Church's domain, which then had 25% of the country. Then, in 1997, the State inherited the land. The church handed over its land estates to pay in the form of a certain number of priests and employees. This agreement is unfashionable. This extra funding is a part of meeting this agreement. Mr. President. The church is an important testimony to the fact that as a nation we stand on the historic and cultural foundation of Christian faith and values. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u41	A respectable president. There's no need for so many people to stand up to me, but that's okay. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I recommend the majority of the aluminium levels from the job board on bill to legalize the change in agricultural products and customs (tollovate distribution). The committee received a meeting of about 30 guests and 14 reviews. The bill suggests changes in the methodology of tolloving so that the costs of tollovate will be considerably reduced, resulting in a benefit to consumers in the form of a lower price. This suggests that the spread process of tollovate will be changed when applying for more than the amount available. The principle has been that tollocates are assigned to the publishers first assigned to the highest bidder and so on until tollovate has been fully distributed. The fundamental change in the bill is that the lowest approved price will be determined by all other approved and higher bids. That arrangement is called a balanced invitation. In addition to the above changes, it is suggested that aaggressive import and export committee be submitted. The primary objective of the bill is to simplify and explain the rules regarding the distribution of tollvota, thereby promoting increased transparency and perception in the disposition of tollovate. One of the most important changes proposed in the bill is to establish the annual distribution of tollovate. The period proposed is based on historical distribution over the past ten years. Thus it will be changed to determine if the supply of the product in a domestic market is sufficient at any time. In addition to this change, it is suggested that the recruitment committee on import and export be submitted as there is no need for the Committee to evaluate and investigate individual market conditions with the proposed changes in the bill. The committee noted that it was difficult to verify when a product supply was not considered sufficient in a domestic market where adequate information was hard to find. In some cases the commission would have received conflicting information, and it would be difficult to verify that the market conditions were in order to meet the requirements for the distribution of tollovata. The Commission concluded that although a solid intervention would result in insight and clear rules, it would not take into account changes that might arise in consumer demand or change in the production or production of a local land. It was noted that the basis for a fixed tolloproperation based on historical evidence would ultimately be broken. Therefore, the fixation of seasonal tollvolutation could not be an unchangeable or permanent solution. It would be necessary to continue flexibility in order to react to unexpected events and, therefore, would result in the removal of important barriers by an internal and export committee. For the Committee, there was a view that further progress should be made on tollvota, which is not used within the distribution period and has to be reassigned to new dishes. This would prevent a new distribution to promote high prices within the country. For the Committee it was declared happy that a recruitment committee on import and export would be submitted and that the market law should apply in agriculture as in other markets. It also suggested that customs protection should be reduced in order to increase the competitiveness of agricultural populations. The majority point out that the market is predictable for farmers. This involves more than that there is a need for a certain flexibility to cope with unexpected events on the market. Necessary management of scarcity is necessary, and more part of it stresses the rapid response of marine eco-efficiency and agricultural administrators in such cases. The majority agree with the view that legalization of the periods of distributions based on previous distributions can prevent innovation and obviously fail to take into account the market development and technological development that has taken place in recent years, e.g. A more complete product storage technique. So suggests the adjustment that a minister should review both the products and the period of distribution every two years. One of the main objectives of the bill is that the benefits produced by the limited quality of customs provide consumers with lower prices. The committee held the view that the reduction in tender expenses and scope for price reduction would not automatically benefit consumers. It was pointed out that there was a free application at both a total and a small level of sale, so there would be more to ensure that the reduction has yielded. The majority of this suggests that in an adjustment of the protocol for the implementation of tollovate agricultural products, special monitoring of markets may be necessary in the event of extensive changes and the need to monitor the market development in the years to come. Thus, the work group was directed to include to the minister that he used himself for the particular attention of competition and prices in a day - to - day market to secure the interests of the common people. A greater proportion of them stress the importance of reducing expenses to consumers. A higher proportion of them suggest that in the case of the case, a marine eco-gri-efficiency minister is working on a contract with the Iceland's Common Association for the SEC following the proposed changes. Therefore, directs the greater portion to the minister to consider getting the Neythal Society involved in such work. The bill shows that the increase in tollovians is believed to need an internal market for all types of meat except pigs and that it is not suggested that there be a fixed period for other types of meat on lower tolls. So the bill suggests that a secretary's authority will be registered to assign an additional 400 tons of pigstovata to meet the need for domestic markets. The committee expressed great dissatisfaction of the legalization of 400 tons of tollvote on deforestation. It was noted that since the import of meat and processed meat products was increased due to international commitments and was now suggested to validate an even greater increase before evaluating the impact that the previous increase had placed on the environment of national production companies. The committee concluded that it was unclear whether the Constitution's 90th rule was to create a special pork - coast supplement. In view of the imminent changes in their working environment, the majority of them indicate that it is important to keep track of the work conditions provided by pigs. In view of the changes proposed and pig farms, the greater part is right to monitor the development of their work environment and provide opportunities to adapt their functions and provide room for growth to meet the needs of consumers in the domestic market. A greater proportion of it points out that by the autumn, toll records listed by the demolition sites have been replaced and are now available on a special number. Thus, the number of imports over the past few years may not provide a correct picture of the real need for localized pigs pages, since they have not been accurately broken. Using the reference to the above, a greater proportion of the items suggest that an additional tolevote for the porcine side of the tablet will be removed. The Committee declared great dissatisfaction with the period during which seasonal agricultural products become less toll or without toll. It was noted that in recent years their market share had declined. The Committee also held the view that domestic production could be another demand for markets outside the periods proposed in the bill. The majority consider it important to consider the above views and therefore suggest a change in the period of opening of cabbages, cabbages, carrots, nightly eggs, cabbages, collars, cabbages, cabbages, seals, and brocoli. At the same time, it is suggested that the tablet be opened and the carrot should be removed. Then there is a table in the Committee that refers to the changes that the greater part made during the periods, and I refer to the Committee's opinion on this matter. The bill has made significant changes in customs and distribution procedures. The committee held the view that a long - term purchase of Icelandic foods would not come up in the light of a limited or unstable offer and that companies would be forced to focus their eyes on imported foods. It was noted that high tolls damage domestic production in an indirect way. In fact, if the introduced products of excessive shopping are too expensive, the demand for them is limited and, in time, can eliminate the interest of restaurantrs in offering these products, so there is a need to ensure the availability of goods. The majority of the data shows that the range in the period used for seasonal agricultural products is unclear. The same value regarding the development of domestic food on pork, beef, and poultry. Clearly, great interests are involved for producers, immigrants, and consumers. Therefore, the majority of the material needs to be reviewed, considering the experience of the new arrangement at the beginning of 2021. Directs the majority of the share to marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers in terms of this review. The majority of the changes made in their proposal that a minister should review products and periods of distribution every two years and stress the need to include a reassessment. will be considered for the development of domestic production and domestic consumption. The bill contains extensive changes and disappears from the present arrangement in the distribution of tollovata. The majority stress the importance of closely monitoring the impact of changes in customs protection intended to protect domestic production and balance the national manufacturer's facilities with local manufacturers. In view of the above, the greater proportion suggests that there is a temporary addition of laws requiring that a minister appoints a group to be monitored for the development of protection due to the above changes. The task force produced a report at the beginning of the 2022. The committee was advised that it was possible to determine whether or not a minister's licence could be determined instead to distribute the above tollovata into the pig pages when the market was in that way. This study would have revealed that such an arrangement would probably not meet the requirements of the Constitution, where a minister was actually entrusted with the authority to lower taxes under certain circumstances that would be considered evaluable. The majority of them believe that it is important to have effective and strong discussions between governments and local authorities for each market situation at a time. Therefore, directs the more part to the marine outdoor and agricultural ministers to set up the government's consultations and representatives of immigrants, manufacturers, trades, and consumers in order to be able to respond quickly, e.g. if you look for a lack of certain products. According to the Committee, data collection has improved over the past few years, making it easier for employers to identify market conditions in advance to deal with the changing circumstances. The members of Parliament who sign this committee are Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Njáll Friðbertsson, and Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brryfjörðurfjörnótir. With the reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by the change I've tore up. At this point, I think I'll let it go for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u42	Mr. President. It is always interesting to observe the discussion of customs and customs, something that we have blessed with putting away in most products except when it comes to food and especially domestic agricultural products. I always think it's so Colombian. It's such a Soviet arrangement - in fact, the three forward groups here under control are extremely well under control. That in here we are the best way to evaluate who is needed markets, what food, and at what time, when there is a lack of them, and when it is not, when the import is needed, and when it is not. In fact, we are now so good that we seem to see ourselves able to nail down dates to eternity. There's nothing to worry about again. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council and an executive of this matter: Would it not be easier to look to include? a comment or a memo that came from the consumer organizations that it may have been time to put off this old deli system, rather direct support to farmers, than to let consumers benefit from less food prices? We must be able to agree on, me and what. A senator, that food prices here are very high in all international comparisons, much higher than is going and occurring in our neighboring countries, and generally at the highest level, especially when it comes to the same domestic agricultural products. Is it not time to let the Soviet media, such as here, go to farms and let consumers benefit also from the support we truly agree to provide for domestic farming?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u43	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks of a Soviet phenomenon, but I know that it's the same thing. A senator has often admired the European Union, which is a truly large and powerful protection alliance. We do not have to look to the Soviet Union in that regard. Hv. A senator also speaks of the binding to eternity. I don't know how long he thinks it's two years, but I think it's such a reasonable period to evaluate things. We're filming a very modified system that we really need to monitor and this is not a cause of want. We can see that we can move in fully. For example, customs on potatoes have been 60 k. so that we have been reducing the number of customs that this century provides. Toll protection is the strength we use for domestic production. Admittedly, another system of things could be adopted. But there is no discussion on this bill. No one has objected that they can be replaced by a larger discussion of how to use them for domestic production. We are not deciding how to have the strength to produce in the country from now on. And I think it's time to take up a real discussion about how we want them and in what way, because there's a lot of calls for strengthening domestic production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. The senator, however, did well in his reply and even mentioned the matter. The toll Union of the European Union - it is always a fashion form of the European Union, the 'Environment of the European Union, the 'Environment of the European Union'. However, according to international statistics published, our customs protection is much higher than the EU's external customs protection. Of course, if we are large enough to ensure that the good association would be a business with tax-free agricultural products in the European Union, we will see that food prices are considerably lower in this area. Thus, in this hall and among members of the council members of the United States government, the same has been true of many members of the Governing Body. Be very happy that the British are on their way out of the European Union and that there are many opportunities there and new vacation agreements, especially with the United States we've got left, which is the very fact that customs of agrienvironmental products are being asked on a growing scale. The United States no longer negotiates free trade agreements unless it is the full tax freedom of agricultural products. Surely, then, there are many interesting opportunities for such contracts. The essence of this question may be just this, and it seems to me that this time even vegetarians agree with the criticism: It is not suitable, not for domestic production, that these high prices are going on whether customs are on or not at the moment. It is much more convenient for the long - term demand to see that the prices in them are as low as the lowest and fluctuate at all. The problem with this arrangement is, of course, that we often see a huge difference in the value of tollovians. It is a cause for rejoicing in this matter especially that, although everything is done and everything is done to try to squeeze it to the extent possible, this is certainly increasing the tollquathane. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it would be much better if we had direct support for farmers. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, consumers benefited.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u45	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks of the European Union as not a toll alliance. But as far as I know, all the goods that have been exported from us are toll, and we are naturally not in the European Union. There are plenty of agricultural products brought in here without customs. I haven't noticed that they're necessarily so much less expensive, at least not for that part. I could mention a lot of vegetables without customs and other agricultural products. [[Up front.]] But vegan farmers have called after this period. They want this protection. I don't necessarily disagree. A senator for us to adopt some other system to strengthen domestic production, but it takes longer to build that system, and I just hope that when it does, it will be. A senator supports it. However, the changes made during periods and toll protection of vegetable products were fully agreed, and this was also due to the indications of vegetable farmers who rely on it. The bill looked at time and again for some ten years, but we also have to look to the future from today's day, not look back. Therefore, it is very important to receive this revised law in order to assess and assess it. These are very dramatic changes that we are making in the distribution of tolls and then we can film them. It may well be that this period or customs will change as experience tells us what that means.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u46	Mr. President. I give a commission from a small part of the employment committee on bill to correct the change in agricultural and tax laws. The Committee has established a view that the bill should be suspended and referred to as a consideration for the development of national policy. It was pointed out that a common vision would need to be developed over time, in which all parties' roles would be defined and aimed for common agrienvironmental policies that would support other public policies. The smaller portion considers the changes suggested in the bill to be improved but agrees with the above views. The need to shape a whole range of agricultural policies that will be implemented for the benefit of all. The committee was told that the way the bill suggests would reduce the government's income and that this reduction would not be guaranteed to the consumers. It was noted that baked potatoes had been moved to the country without customs for many years, but they were no less expensive than Icelandic. The minority agrees that it has not been shown that the reduction in the cost of tenders the bill makes a suggestion to the consumers. Explains the need to ensure that consumers benefit from the reduction. The lesser part does not violate the fact that the matter is going to be a success, but it shows that the matter is late and is thought about why the matter is being accelerated through the council at the same time as the government's policy of sustainable agriculture and food production is still under way. Under this opinion, Jónsson and Codrimur Sigmundsson are written.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u47	Mr. President. Somehow, when I first saw this bill, I thought that I was finally seeing a bill that started a little radically and significantly opened to customs for importing agrienvironmental products - but it wasn't. It must be said, however, that as the original issue was made up of many steps in the right direction. As previously established by the Committee, more part of the council does not seem to be ready to move into the changes in the agricultural system that we need to face and we have to go for the benefit of farmers, benefits for consumers, and for agricultural products. I think it's harmful, and I'm sure it's harmful for farmers and consumers to maintain the present system. This bill and the opinion given when you look at it reminds you of a certain custody system. It's a stationary system, and everyone knows that quietness is not good when people are afraid to make needed changes. Then there is the employment board to put your thumb up or down what you can't do and put it in the usual way - it's time to prove that it's traditional - but it's old - fashioned. This is a approach to the agriculture system, as it has been in the past 50 to 170 years. Of course, this is not surprising with the government today that it dares not change anything or anything for fear of special interests. I also ask, in my simple mind, " If you're changing, why wasn't there a demonstration of legalization, a transparency to consumers? ' The committee suggests the following adjustment, with permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Guard with the Tolls number 0208,9003, 0208,9007, 0208,9008...156 And then this goes on. Would it not have been okay to keep the items transparent so that consumers and people who are handling this need not always look up all the toll numbers? So we are approaching in 2020, not 1920? Just to tell consumers what's going on? It may be out of the way, but it shows that it can be done better. I don't really agree with this, and I wish it had been possible to work in a more modern way, except for all these dates I don't understand. It's simply easy to solve it. We have been eager to speak strongly that we should be opening up to customs, removing farm customs, against farmers'receiving support. We see it again in certain types of products within the vegetables. There the trend has been positive, not just for consumers, but also a variety of agricultural activities, within the vegetary sector. Just with diversity in product development, like in the tomatoes, where we're seeing all kinds of things happen, the variety of products from Icelandic tomatoes. All of this also makes the industry more exciting, more attractive. It enters young people, and there will be more innovation and more sceptres that can be created. This is so good an example that when we finish customs and put ourselves in direct strength, as we did in our time - it cost itself - it is for everyone to benefit. In other ways, land support can be provided for far more economic and valuable growths for the article than for consumers themselves. We should not be afraid of this opening. I assure you, everyone in this room wants to strengthen and support the agriculture. But we must have the courage to make other changes that are appropriate for our time and future, suitable for our research and science environment, our innovation, and the wand environment that must begin to spread more into the agricultural field as such because it offers it. By removing the customs, increasing our freedom in the agricultural sector, we gain greater variety on the market. I point out that it attracts young people in the article and increases the joy they find among consumers. Our approach to restoration is that the simplifying of this matter would be to cancel the customs. We know that the direct support for agriculture, if we take the livestock contract, is of fewer than 17 billion, and the indirect strength of the customs, the additional support that comes through this customs protection, is of the range of 121⁄215 billion. This should be applied directly to agri-environment schemes and set certain conditions, of course, on the basis of environmental considerations, aquifers' grounds, so that these are directly understood by both farmers and consumers. What a marvelous opportunity for us politicians, for the article such as such and consumers, to try to work on this! We have these minute examples that are so positive and should motivate us to take the steps. [[Up front.]] Instead, it is always pushed aside. They have the courage to handle matters because they must not rock the boat because it is one of the stakeholders to warn against this. Let's wait on this, let's rethink this, let's take a closer look. It is our job to get people with us in politics to make some changes that we are convinced can benefit everyone, to change systems that have certainly been good through the ages, but are now no longer acceptable in the 21st century. It's my call, and we're reassigning to the town council to participate in this. I know that the local community is a powerful, forward people who want to do just that. It should be a guide, included in continuing to communicate experience and knowledge into that process the process of change. This is our view of restoration. I'm not going to go into it, as I felt at the Committee's meetings, that the senators would consider whether we need another 400 tons of pig pages or not, that we need some committee as an arrangement every time, as the figure says, that we need to improve data. It is always good to improve the data, but just so that there is some authority to determine when or not there is a lack of certain products? Let's let the market decide, let freedom float. It is our experience in the past that when freedom makes the journey, it brings prosperity and brings value, and it is good for society. It was embarrassing to have the discussion whether 400 tons of pig pages were needed or not when it appeared, including. In response to those who came, not only with increased domestic consumption but also with the presence of tourism, it is important that tourism have access to classical sites, including the Internet. set the surface of bacon and other things tourists want. This is a matter of taking care of a number of articles when deciding what to do, whether it is agricultural or other products. This is the case in my opinion of a child of his time, and I encourage senators to use an open mind to change the system so that we increase the direct support to farmers on the grounds that we take into account environmental considerations, consumers, public health issues, soil policy, and thus we will contribute to the survival and growth of agriculture as never before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, for her speech. I just wanted to talk to her about one point and then plan to get into things a little bit better later. The Þorgerður talked about transparency and had a toll number. Now I haven't been in Congress for a long time, and I know what it is. A senator has spent much longer at a council than I am, but is there a committee opinion that is not used for registration? I think it's normal for men to inform us about this in a committee list about the toll files. Then I point out that there is a further explanation of their lips in a particular table of the committee's opinion, to be said. But there's one thing I hope I've heard wrong. A senator suggested that there are 17 billion farms in direct payment. They're 12, just to be said. So I just typed it in and calculated it out, it's 12, not 17. Let's have it... [[Over 16...]] Well, let's just figure it out later, Þorgerður, but I think it's like this. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður regarding the fact that there is now a arrangement called the Dutch way out. To me, it's normal to have some protection on a domestic product. But see what? Is there no opportunity for a senator to import this Dutch route? That's what I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u49	Mr. President. Only to answer the 17 billion. That is over 16 billion, and it has been in the domestic agreement adopted at the time and is now in charge of the Ministry. There are some new numbers if it's down to 12 billion. It would be funny if it had been more when I was in the Ministry. The second is what you were thinking when I was on the committee and was listening to the way you should go, the auction route, which, according to my opinion, is clearly transparent. That's not toying with things. But the Dutch route is a mixed way that encourages even the rest of the way. recruitment in import and may give certain opportunities. I emphasize that the greatest opportunity for exported agricultural products and, at the same time, for domestic agricultural products is to make it all free. I think that's my biggest chance. It's the biggest opportunity, but I say to them, "You know, from the fact that there's support for farmers." I'm not talking about, and I don't want to be put into my mouth, as some people want to do here, that by cutting off the customs we wouldn't go in supporting farmers. We're just supposed to do it systematically, cancel the customs and go straight to prayer, do it together. I am convinced that there are benefits for consumers and for producers and simply in harmony with the requirements we make today for transparency and other things. Of course, I had a firm scoundrel earlier, and I had to tell you about the toll numbers. But I don't think it's clear that you have to go to a committee party: Wait, what's going on? It's just about what's going on, so you don't have to go looking up the law once when people are wondering what this is and what it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now we have experience with the arrangement. A senator speaks of cutting down customs on certain products, i.e. The tomatoes, and the masons, and the masons; and they pay straight wages in return. If I remember correctly, it's 550 million a year going there. In spite of this, the production of these products has drawn together over the past few years. It's been in the news lately, something's happened. Now I don't know if it's only because of product development. A senator referred to and we know the changes that have been made in tomatoes; men have gone more into such little tomatoes, konsotto mats, and what they call all of them together; however, paprikas and euphems have not changed. However, this has happened there as well as with the pickles and paprikas. Although we have direct payment and we have no toll protection on that product, the domestic product, despite this government - given support, seems to be fighting the competition. It's always natural, if you can cut it, that you have to take the best course of action, but everyone agrees on it, and we agree a lot about it, me and then. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður, promoting the Icelandic agriculture. We may differ in ways that are discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the answer. It's fun to discuss the matter this way, and I'd like to draw it up that the figures that were drawn together in terms of the fact that the import was actually released on the exact aguar, tomatoes, and peppers, said that the share of domestic product was about 80%, reminds me, or almost 80%. After the import was given free, the number went over it. At that time, consumption of domestic products led to an even more intense consumption and the awareness of extracurricular activities, however, increased the consumption of Icelandic products. Since then, this has only been summed up, including by Costco. What's never said enough is that there's a source here that needs to be okay. It's just not okay today, and Icelandic immigrants have to step up in this regard. It sucks to see when you're putting someone to make mushrooms from the Netherlands in a pack of Icelandic flags. Who's being fooled? There, immigrants have to watch out for themselves. It does not mean merely to criticize others and not to look at ourselves. As soon as I stress that I want absolute tax freedom, I want to encourage everyone to take care of their responsibility for freedom. Freedom comes with responsibility, and the responsibility must be maintained everywhere, from the manufacturer to the consumers, and to all middlemen on the way, so to speak. It is interesting to observe how the trend has been in tomatoes, and it is no different from that seen in oceanic waters: Less than any increase in value has been achieved. [[The president calls.]] That's what we were happy to do about the tomatoes, that although the production rate may have slowed down a little more than the value of a wonderful Icelandic product.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u52	Mr. President. We'll discuss agrienvironment schemes and imports. A special aspect of these issues is the climate and carbon tracks that I have always experienced quite far from the use of wording in the development of these discussions. I don't remember much of that conversation. Now it is our duty to set up some kind of food policy that highlights the local community and the production of domestic products, more diversity and so forth, food security, sustainableity, and low levels of carbon dioxide. Then I wonder, " How does this all come off into my import? ' Is there no doubt about his effectiveness in our time? I wondered if a policy of protection, though limited, is somehow more attractive for domestic production and the reduction in import could be harmful. It is said that agricultural policy and import policy should be appropriate for today. What, then, is the main problem today? That's climate change, isn't it? I don't get this hideous freedom to get along well with today's climate and ask why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir: Would climate change make no restrictions on the import of agricultural products? If so, what restrictions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u53	A respectable president. I'm really happy about this, and I'm really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, We have been talking about taking the agriculture into all environmental topics, environmental concerns, and climate issues. We have encouraged environmental ministers and agricultural ministers to take up the agricultural business because these are the biggest opportunities for us Icelanders to answer how we fight the climate problem. This is what we've kept saying and praying, but we don't see any sign from the government that the agricultural business and the livestock contract are being adopted, exactly on the climate leaders. Maybe we'll find out why. A senator on the import, you see, I've been watching people think that their freedom cannot exactly be a support for climate protection. I think it can be, and I'm convinced of it, but I think others try to use climate issues to promote their ideals for maybe socialism or something similar. I'm not a scientist, but I'm trying to learn to listen better to scientists, and I want to hear more about carbon tracks and sheep. points to an article that Matthíasson Mahíasson wrote in his day about the hydrocarbon footprints of lamb meat and agriculture. I refer to that article as simply my answer to the question as it is. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u54	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah, I'm sure we agree on a lot, including. ... takingagriculturalsin all the talk on climate issues. Of course, it is being done today more or less in part by all classes at the council. They're working on food policy. What would it be called on to mean, what would it be about, or what would be heard in the domestic agreements, and what will be discussed later on this day on the subject of sheep farming and other matters? We're here to do this, but we're here talking about importing, we're talking not about domestic food production and its carbon track, but mainly about how climates place restrictions on a vacation store and south, let's just say it, not with agricultural products, but with all created things. I think people have long learned that shopping patterns and patterns like that don't work. Although I like German beef or Madagascar's love calendar, it does not mean that it is probably a matter of concern that it is brought in. What I was advertising is actually taking it seriously and making some argument, we can't discuss here the individual forces of this carbon track, for that or understand how these restrictions really are, how they appear, and what it means to the import policy of food in Iceland. We all know that it may well be that when transport has become environmentally friendly after 30 to 750 years with energy exchanges on the sea and on the airplanes, and so on. is the movie another. This now means to my eyes the protection of national production and certain restrictions on import.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u55	Mr. President. I just have to say, as I'm saying, this is a backside of the mountain, saying that we need to have a customs protection here, and it's still the same, that we can't change anything. With all due respect, I think it's a methodology. I feel that we first have to do our homework. We ask: What is the carbon footprint of Icelandic agriculture? We do not even know the answers to the members of the council, since agriculture, the industry, is uncertain, and in consultations, no one knows exactly what the carbon foot of an Icelandic agricultural field is. We should start with that. Now that we're discussing this, I'd like to mention that on Monday, we'll discuss a case that has been put on quality management in sheep's raise. I think that's exactly what we're supposed to bring here and agree. It is not possible for agriculture to be made so strong under a domestic contract but do not meet the requirements for carbon footprints and land use. I don't think it's gonna work out, but you can't deal with it. I think it would be a good first step for us to start with just the right thing about cleaning up our home. We're not doing it, and it's kind of like stopping such a thing. I'm especially happy if the members of Parliament are here calling for this exact matter, and then I expect that we at Correction will receive support for matters specifically done in the interest of climate and environmental issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u56	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill to correct the change in agricultural products and customs, the distribution of tollovita. I was just going to come up here to take part in the interesting discussions that are forming from this bill and the recommendations of the committees. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundsson's masks went through the committees on which we're both on, and it's short and pointed and in fact just to make an effort to say that we weren't opposed to the case the way it is presented, but we wanted it to be a whole-scale policy. The board of directors speaks of working on sustainable farming and food production in this country, and I think it's a good point that I would have liked to see that work done before we went into it. We ask: Why is there such a hurry? So it's done, and it's here for release. There have been significant changes in the bill since it was first submitted, e.g. as shown here, these 400 tons of pig pages were taken out. Is it really well, considering the reviews and the size of the visitors who came to the meeting that is the direct stakeholder in this culture side? But then it was tourism, and on that side there was talk of lack. Then you come to exactly what is discussed in this sector, agrienvironment, or food production, that there seems to be no cure for food supply, just as we witnessed in the last summer about the lamb. One calls for an improvement in food transparency and that somehow food status can truly be seen, since each side they sit at the table seems to want to interpret it in its own way and may not always give out the correct numbers. In view of the information that has now been presented in the preceding talks, which is very interesting, I think about the opinions I personally have and my group on these issues, such as food security, agriculture, and all that is involved in it. We would face a policy in the light of circumstances. Today, climate debates are high in the air, carbon lines, and so on. There, as in everything else, it seems to each one, and it has been written on the right hand, on the left. This mention was made of Þórólfur the Matthíasson of Matthia and an article he wrote. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, quoted her. Many have already written articles after driving that article, learned and games, so I am shocked when I read this article, that it would be less carbon track to carry lamb from Australia to Iceland than to grow it here. There's just something in my basic sense that tells me it can't stand. In view of these matters, however, we should shape a clear policy for sustainability in food. Still, we can import food but we would be fully self-sustained in food, could produce enough food. In Iceland, I think the best food in the world is created, there's nothing more complex than that. And why don't we resolve to produce food that will do for all of us if we needed to think that only the food produced in Iceland would be the food we had access to? There may be other factors, such as natural disasters or worse things beyond our control, and we need to be able to cope if we are to live on in the land. Then we would have the food supply and the production at home that would help us survive. This makes sense to the work of reducing carbon tracks and packing up so many aspects of what makes sense to me. When a discussion of global warming reached flight, I recall that the chairman of the Middle Party, w. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, spoke of this as an opportunity for us Icelanders, and it was launched by many people as sarcasm or a ridiculous approach to speaking of opportunities. But what he meant, and those who take note of this opportunist thought, is that with a warmer climate, our ability to grow here in Iceland is increasing. There's more time for that. The summers are not long here, but they could be longer, better conditions to grow, and so on. So if the climate continues to warm, breeding conditions will be restored. We are to take advantage of this and develop a course in harmony with it so that we can support those who produce food, whether meat or vegetables, or so along the streets, that it can be built more fully. By noon, when we were discussing one side of the store, together boils and other such things, we came up in a pitavan. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, spoke of the Central Party becoming the dominant member of the council. I started listening because you don't always hear it in speeches, and then there's the natural Middle East in my part, not in the government. But this was interesting. Hv. A senator said this because the person mentioned here had said that there was, however, some progress in the media about something changed to the earlier bill this morning. Then I also thought about offering suggestions in view of the election outcome in Britain that have been announced. A major victory was being won by the United Kingdom, which makes Britain much more likely to leave the European Union. In view of their ultimatum, would it not be appropriate to make use of the revision regulations in a tax agreement with the EU just now? I propose that the government of Iceland will record this in the light of this key point in the United Kingdom, and I immediately adopt this revision principle and encourage the government to impress them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to have a few words on bill to correct the change in agricultural products and customs. When it comes to agrienvironment schemes, it is usually divided into two groups. Some people want absolute freedom of law and others want to be more protected, and I am now a member of the latter group and also a member of a government community that speaks for promoting Icelandic agriculture. It's always about which way you go in that context. The bill is based on a fixed toll agreement made at 2015 with the European Union, and the bill is primarily about meat and gardening or vegetables. When it comes to meat, there are certain amplitudes, which are fully valid in 2021, and in this context, we can mention that in pork, this is 764 tons, in beef 791 tons, and in the birds 1015 tons. There have been over 400 tons of pig pages here. Fortunately, they are no longer inside, no longer being able to import them into open tollovets, for as people began to study the case on customs plates and second - that was the first time in the autumn that they had to record specifically - it turns out that in September and October, some 30 tons of pig pages were introduced, while this open tolloplet offered an additional 400 tons per year. If we were to divide the number of tons transferred in September and October, it would be more than 140 tons, which would then be the most likely import. In this country, some 500 tons of pig pages are produced, and this open tollocate was to contain 400 tons of pig pages. Naturally, the producers were concerned about this. These same producers are not only concerned about the increase in international competition with their products but also about the fact that we now have a rule of making the production demand for them. The demands we make are the most difficult in the world, I'm going to make a statement. This need to be fulfilled at a particular time, and those particular producers also need to have a vision of the future. One has to have a basis for managing the big changes planned for it. For example, we can take room in farstenness. On the basis of today's events, the births need to grow by half. It all costs money, so it is very important that people have something in front of them that they can draw from. The customs protection that has recently been developed and has been observed in interviews with certain manufacturers is that you can import goods from finished abroad and still be relatively competitive, although you carry it into the full toll. Then there is the point of dropping all tolls but having some straight pay back. But it's just that in the world in which we live, everyone has some kind of protection on its production. If we were to live in the ideal world, which unfortunately does not exist, we would probably not have such tolls. But this is just the fact, and we live in it. We have discussed climate and food policy. Hv. paritaprevir Trausti Trusti's habit was made with interesting points in his contrast with that of earlier times. It was also included in its committee article, which is called after a long - term vision. It's just that governments are working on food policy, there's a team working on it, and there's a debate between farmers and governments about agricultural policy in the future. We are going to increase the production of Icelandic food, that is, in the Treaty, and we will do so. I believe that this bill as it is coming from the greater part should be able to give us the opportunity for the future in this context. Certainly, we just look at the customs agreement. It's the tons I mentioned earlier. There is no way for the open tollovians who were being discussed last fall. Then you just move in on top of that. Then comes the Dutch way, which is on page 19. 4 in a committee party. It especially includes what is happening to gardening. If we only go to the garden of Eden, there were loud voices in it that would indicate that humans were narrowly tailored to this subject. It is true that we are not producing enough species and are taken into account in this export system. But we are doing well in various species, such as. potatoes and carrots, and humans are developing ways to store the product as long as possible. It is a sensitive product, and it needs to be kept at the right temperature, and farmers feel ready to meet the challenge, to produce goods that they can offer throughout the year, and it is quite successful. How important it is, then, that governments show understanding that farmers have a vision for the future and that farmers look forward to their failure to be embarrassed by such legislation! I believe that in the bill, people, whether farmers or governments, have an excellent view of meeting together and looking to the future in the possibility of providing the food we should be able to provide. And then something else just moved in. It was just in the past that we were a little old - fashioned on climate issues. I'd like to think so. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came upon the idea that there was nothing to look at. But then I just want to remind you that in the recent agreement of cattle farmers with the state, there's a climate crisis. Sheep farmers have aimed for a lack of carbon in 2027. These issues are working, and it is far from possible that there will be some developments in the climate change discussion and coping with the events ahead. We can discuss that in another discussion, but I'm going to concentrate on talking about this bill. Then there is a disagreement. Some have spoken about freedom of choice and have given strength to farmers. I don't have any particular solution for that. But this is the system we are working with today, and the discussion has not been taken, knowing, on a broad scale, that man is going all the way, because I don't think they know what that means to cost. Just this change here, changed the teleportation system, will cost up-to-date state funds to lose 400 million dollars. A k., maybe 500 million, something like that. Admittedly, this is done for the benefit of consumers, and we have a system of agriculture. Men have been talking about the exception of the milk industry from competitive legislation and other systems, but all these systems have natural and are designed to provide consumers with as good a price as possible - but good things are always to be done. This is not what I'm saying is that the quality isn't foreign. That's a long way from. A respectable president. I think I'm going to stop here, but I'm just saying that when men do this, they need to exchange their opinions and deal with them, and that's my belief that the result of a greater part of the employment committee is really good, and I would say acceptable for producers and consumers to benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u58	Mr. President. The environmental issues of this discussion have only been referred to. Hv. In his speech and wrangled, a senator entered it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson also came up with the answers. I fear, in connection with the implementation of food policy for Iceland, that in some way we're carrying environmental information about how we support national agriculture and what we're producing. That's why I just wanted to talk to him about it. A senator. According to the report made by the National Association of Sheep Farmers, discharges per kilogram of lamb were made on a land of over 29 pounds [29 kg]. For example, Matthíasson Matthiasson, an economic professor, reported that the comparable figures for New Zealand were 19 kilograms. Taking into account transport, it actually saved the lamb's carbon footprint to move it from New Zealand rather than produce it here. Therefore, I wondered if this thought has been resolved if we are going to use the environment to support protection in domestic production. It is good to remember that according to the global assessment, transport is about 6% of total food production emissions. Thirty percent are the animals themselves, another 25% are the land uses associated with feeding animals. That is why the question may be: Why not change this support system more seriously? That we're focusing more on vegetableing? That the agricultural support systems were more dependent on how well we use the land and what total emissions of land use were or how we really manage to reduce it? [[The president calls.]] Not in any way am I offering suggestions to reduce support to agriculture but merely to change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the question. Hv. A senator referred to a number presented by Þórólfur the Matthíasson of Matthalia. I'm familiar with these numbers on the comparison of money in New Zealand and sheep in Iceland. These are arithmetics, and when this case was considered, the National Association of Sheep made known that people were not using the same formulas. When men started using the same formula and moved it to New Zealand, the money in New Zealand was certainly getting rid of a little less than it was only about 2%. It was 27% instead of 29. So it's a little bit about how you figure things out. It was very good. A senator came into this friendship, for in all these discussions, emissions, and how we deal with them, I have felt that lack of a general reasonable standard that all can agree on. We all know the discussion about shoveling in a ditch, that the world should be saved. I'm just not there, going to shovel in a ditch that was cleaned up 60 years ago. Maybe I'll come in better after that in the next answer. But let's start by watching how things are calculated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator answered, it was interesting to hear these corrections on calculating. But that in itself may not be the biggest issue. Rather, we look at the basic advice of key experts: We need to reduce significantly the consumption of meat in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The main emissions in food production are related to meat intake. Of course, many other factors have been discussed here. It has, for example. You may watch for more and less all the food you eat in the chicken farm, two pounds to one pound a pound [kg] of meat. But that may not be the biggest case either, but exactly the fact, and I think the International Cash Fund just mentioned it as one of the main measures for us to reduce the human carbon track, to the number one, two, and three need to reduce the consumption of meat. That's what's happening. The young generation is greatly reducing the consumption of meat. Fifty percent of the young women in Iceland do not eat meat, and that is what seems to be becoming very strong and ongoing. So I wondered, " Is it out of the question that we look at how we're going to reorganize Icelandic agriculture from the demographic development that is becoming? ' Then I'm not necessarily saying that the solution is to import meat back. That's not what I'm worried about, but it's far more likely that we're changing our support into agriculture, making it more supportive to both farmers and their productions than at the same time our goals in climate change from the fact that we may have to reduce the longer - term consumption of meat to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his questions and speculations. Cutting down meat? Now, we look forward to the fact that each day there are always more in food today than there were yesterday. That's the situation. The future is so in my mind that we have to produce as much food as possible so that we can offer it to everyone. I'm not saying we have to reduce the consumption of meat. Besides, I'm not saying we should add to it, but we just need to think the whole thing over. If we talk about food, nutrition, just look at proteins - we have to watch them so that we can feed the world. We're part of the world, we're not just Icelanders. That's what it's all about. Every nation that makes as much of its food as possible, whether it is green or red, I mean meat or cabbage, if we simplify it, shall come to stand well. We're gonna go for a second. A senator can discuss how we deal with it for a long time, but we always come to the same conclusion, when we discuss it, that domestic production produces certain jobs and that it is expected to produce economics as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u62	President. We're dealing with a bill to correct the change in agricultural products and customs, tollovate distribution. If I detour myself on the bill, I'll be in par. 3 mg. 65. g. The law says it's different, but it's actually just that it's being added. It could have been done this way, it's being added a text that starts with the words: In order for an proposal to be valid, it is permitted to ask for an obligatory declaration or a local fee. At transfer of tollovata, the highest prices oer in the set amount should be selected until the level of toravota that has been dispensed has been reached. Then there's the lowest offer that controls the price. It's called the Dutch way. There's another way to go. When this customs company is released, it is a lower price that comes to the state, and if it comes to those who buy this tollovate and shop for consumers, it should be paid lower price. But now we know that Iceland has a low level of competition. In my own time, I helped make a report of the so - called Contestant Institute regarding the integration of food shops and the shops of major merchants, i.e. By the year 2000, the cost of buying and the bonus and all these chains of trade had already become an enormous compression on that market. We know that there is an enormous lack of competition at the market, which means that such lowering doesn't necessarily come back. But the Piratars are all for the fact that in terms of our policy, tolls on food and import will become non-cureding and eventually fall away for health reasons. On the contrary, Piratar and I want to be supportive of the agricultural producers because the tollovates are always counted as a protection from agricultural products. consumers are 100 percent damaged by their assigned customs, but they provide specific support to the suppliers. The numbers I came across when I was studying at the time of a report Geir H. Haarde requested in his day showed that he was only 60%. So the damage done to consumers yields only limited support. There's an awful loss of going that way. It would be better to take the amount of money that suppliers receive that supports customs and that gives them the strength and even a little higher than that, then, it is just taken out on the prize tax to return it to them. So eventually consumers can get lower prices for food, they get their share, and the suppliers get more. So everybody can make money if they're done with the tolls to direct support. There is one very clearly stated on the committee when we were discussing this, and everyone is ready to have this conversation. Some people are simply doing this right away, but it's everyone - including the suppliers who expressed themselves about this team - ready to have this conversation about going to the bone. I'll continue with my bill. Then it's 2. g. The bill. For one thing, the changing of the periods, the date of the year, and the time of the event are changing. Some of this is based on insufficient information. The secretary intended to assign 400 tons of tollocate on saphenoids used in bacon, which builds the calculator for how much has been incorporated and why these 400 tons should be added for the demand in Iceland for tourists who want their bacon in the morning and for the lack of information. There are very limited and not good information on the exact aspects to be changed and on customs. So I'm not gonna take sides on exactly what changes are going to be, but I will vote against all the changes made by the Committee on these issues. Because while there is some dilation from the bill that comes from a minister on tollquathana, a greater part of the Committee decided to extract these 400 tons - I might have said yes because there is insufficient information on that point -- and squeeze all other frames and all other periods and put a roof on what can be brought in when the open period is open. In fact, toll protection is to be increased in all areas, making adjustments in the number and time needed for the majority of the items. I'll vote against it. In the 3rd. The bill says 87th par. The law will pass away. A certain committee is being dismissed which advised a minister clearly on a very limited amount of information on how to manage tollocrats, which are actually taxes. But something has been revised, and today the Ministry says that this is a permit minister making decisions on taxes that only natural Council can do. Thus, for many years the General has chosen to serve as Minister for a form of taxes. This is what the Ministry today says is to conflict with the Constitution, and I will, of course, agree with the Ministry's findings. A minister should not have that authority. It's taken away. I'm on it. In Comb 4. the regulations of T and AA, that are preliminary regulations now out - of - date. So 5th. The bill is making some changes to Section 12. Song: The details of the products transferred according to to to to customs specified in the IVA and IVB Annexes should be placed as amplitudes and be 45% of a specific ampoule per customs file. Again: The lack of information on these objects is extremely high. Therefore it is also so difficult to make decisions on this matter, so it is even a violation of the Constitution to allow a minister to make that decision on taxes, based on limited information. It has become so ecstatic that a minister can do it. All this food-related toll environment is largely ostentatious. It's completely out of the question that humans have been maintaining this system for so long. I repeat, the suppliers we spoke to are ready for the conversation to look at it as a source of strength. They all make up for it. Farmers make money on it. The consumers shall profit from it: the kingdom shall profit it; the store shall profit it. Moving away from tollvotes that are harmful. In terms of the support provided by commercial producers today in the form of tollvota, they receive a substitute for strengthening, and they should also have the initial concentrations of beds and then balance them according to the circumstances. We are now changing customs according to circumstances. Customs can be changed, and they're always changing. There is no safer environment than to move it into a bone strength, where everyone makes a profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u63	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place on this subject. I'm not going to extend the discussion very much, but I would like to thank both the chairman of the committee and the head of the story and, of course, the Minister for a very good cooperation in this matter. Naturally, this was under the committee's control. The views that I strongly advocated were increasing the scope of farmers to increase their production. The conclusion of this case is that it is. The time period for each product was adjusted according to what the committee and her advisers believe a farmer can live up to. Of course, it is important to be caught. Therefore, the bill is now being reviewed that by 2021 the current project will be considered to see whether farmers will be better equipped to increase their production. I think it's the big vision we have to have in this room and on the job committee, to increase the production of agricultural products, so we're going to be self-sustained. In particular, gardening is an interesting option for Iceland to become self-sustained in the production of horticulture products. I believe it is important that we continue on the course set here and hopefully this will benefit farmers and consumers. Most of the time, they do things for each other. At the time referred to as carbon tracks and carbon equations, the gardening industry is now producing about 7% of the food we consume, 1% of carbon into the atmosphere, so it works very well in this regard. I thank the manager for her fine work, the Chairman of the Committee for the Cooperation as well as the Minister and the All Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u64	Mr. President. Finally, I want to open up a few words in this conversation about customs and the change in agricultural products. The committee discussed the matter very closely and applied themselves to listening to different viewpoints. We've worked together to change the case since it came to the Committee at the time, and I believe that these changes have all been beneficial and will meet domestic agricultural production. As we have seen, it is possible to have an additional 400 tons of alcohol on a side of the pig pages of 400 tons. We feel that the sayings that are called EU tólkvotar and will be fully carried out into nearly 700 tons of pig pages by the end of the next year should be sufficient for the market. We have reviewed the open-label periods for which to be non-tolls against imported vegetables, squeezed them, and taken out specifically production such as carrots and potatoes that we rely on domestic markets to make another demand, but if demand becomes larger or looks like it is needed, a minister must file a lawsuit into the council to meet them. The advisory committee in these matters, when there has been a shortage in the past few years. It cannot resist constitution that a minister has this authority on taxation, so we are changing the system to that extent, but I believe that the commercial food production in agriculture and gardening has the advantage of the quality. With that advantage, let's keep working. It is also important that we consume as much food as possible to our immediate environment from carbon tracks and climates that we need to take into consideration. It provides opportunities and opportunities both in the garden of Eden and in other food producers in agriculture. The climate has come up here, and it has been introduced into both contracts that have been replaced and are discussed here, like the section of the Convention, now the cattle contract and the former sheep farm. The climate has been introduced into renewable agreements, and I expect it will be done when treaties with gardening are renewed. I thank all professional authorities on the job board for the good and practical work that has been on the committee to meet various matters of opinion and improve. I think it is very important that there is a review law inside this contract to evaluate how this will be done and what the development will be about importing the food in the modified system we are developing here. I thank the members of the Committee for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u65	Mr. President. I recommend an aluminium program with a change in bill proposal to correct the change of agricultural products, with subsequent changes (redressing of the Convention on the Work of Bovine Farms). Of course, I had a number of visitors discuss this matter with the committee. The primary objective of the bill is to agree on the change in the contract of cattle breeding work, signed on October 25, 2019, which includes the fall from the collapse of a total payment target. For the Committee there was a general pleasure with the bill. It was pointed out that the cow farmers had agreed to an agreement with 76% of the paid votes. Furthermore, if a farm had been adopted, 89% of its vote to keep the saying system in milk production has been adopted, and the change is that of a cow's own prayer. The committee pointed out that in more lands milk market management is a payment policy and that it would be possible to arrive at a so - called balance market. They were advised not to appoint a group of workers who cover the price of milk and dairy products. The committee also noted that a minister will be permitted to set maximum prices on payment markets if prices become abnormal. This will increase destiny and help farmers, e.g. in a business plan. A greater proportion of the panel points out that the results of a wordout among farmers strongly indicate that milk production is the arrangement that has been made to the article. In addition, the Commission suggests that measures, as mentioned, are being carried out in addition to the presupervision for farmers in their operations. The majority of the Committee thus suggests that this bill will be approved by a change facing the bill's headline of the bill as follows: A bill to correct the change in agricultural law, No. 99/1993, with later changes ( look out for milk). Under this view, the one listed here is the one who wrote, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Páll, Jónsson Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótttir, Næl Trausti Friðbertsson, Sigurður, Sigmursson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Sigmundsson. I think it's very important that we're finishing up here to settle the agreement made to the cow farmers. We know that there have been great difficulties, especially in young farmers and those who have invested in innovations in their milk farms. The market has been completely frozen, and humans have not been able to buy extra dairy dishes to cover their increased investments. I believe, in the presence of this agreement with the State article, the opportunity for farmers to be able to borrow in the presence of this perspective and to support the development and development of their operations in new equipment and technology that has been cleared up in this sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u66	Mr. President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993. The primary objective of the bill is to agree on the change in contracts for the conditions of cattle breeding, signed on October 25, 2019, an agreement that includes the fall from the collapse of a total payment target. The commission presented a general pleasure with the bill, and it was noted that the cow farmers had agreed to the agreement with 76% of the votes. Furthermore, among cow farmers, 89% of the vote has been adopted to keep the saying code system in milk production. The change, then, is that of the farmers'own request. The committee pointed out that in more lands milk market management is a payment policy and that it would be possible to arrive at a balance market. Command a group of workers who review milk and dairy prices. The committee also noted that a minister will be permitted to set maximum prices on payment markets if prices become abnormal. This will increase awareness and help farmers, e.g. in a business plan. I believe that the results of a vote among cow farmers strongly indicate that the milking system is the arrangement that happened to the article. As noted in a committee program, measures that increase awareness and that have fallen to facilitate their management are being made available to farmers. I am pleased, Mr. President, with the opportunity here to support this fine case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u67	President. In 1st. The bill says 2 and 3. 53. g. The law will pass away. This bill is about maintaining tollovates in the production of milk. It should be maintained. The U.S. Governing Body spoke very clearly, which means that the effect is manufacturing. This reduces milk production and, therefore, affects the consumer on this basis. So the price is higher on that basis. It also means buying toll a tollovata to get into the article - it's only a little cheaper for replacements who are good, then something comes in - either to expand or to get new into the article needs to be used capital, and, in almost no doubt, it involves the amount of loans, i.e. The U.S. Governing Body says this will mean more debt in the article. This is an up-to-date milk company to be maintained. In the days of the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, minister of the 2016 seminary, this system was to be moved out. Now it's decided to go back and secure the system. Of course, we would be against it so that we will vote against the milk company in pars. Two. is referred to as 54th parr. The law of the law, which is being interpreted as the supremely Sigurður son of Jóhannsson Jona. The minister of the seminary, the wording against exposé in the milkcans, so that milk can be reimbursed again. We know what that means for debt collections, etc. So, of course, we are against the same thing. Section 3. is that the law will gain value on January 1, 2020, right after the New Year's Eve. It's a bad language that keeps tollovates in place. How was the trial during the council? She was practically none. The case was mentioned in the December 3, issue of Awake! Usually, when it's not at least magazines called to the table the stakeholders involved in this matter. Who met the committee? The matter was taken up at one meeting, and then the Ministry came to explain the bill, that's usually the way it started, so there were stakeholders in the production and the Contestation. The majority of the committees in their panels say that there has been a general pleasure in the bill for the Committee. The majority of the people that came are stakeholders who want to maintain exhilaration in the present dairy clime system, and of course the stakeholders like it, want to have it that way, and vote for it. The conference watch says: "No, it's bad at what is competitive, and that's why the consumer is. The consumer organizations were not called. It was just said, "Yes, they came in the process sooner than ever." This does not, however, change the fact that almost always interest stakeholders are called on, especially when requests are not issued on the case during the implementation of the Committee on the case. The Management Board's work on the case was merely calling out to the stakeholders and the Contestance Control and saying: Okay, how do you feel about this? The interests of the economy thought it was great. The pageant department said, "No, it's not a good thing. It was all the development of the Commission on this matter, and it is also misleadingly proposed to say that there is a general pleasure in the matter when we did not even get a stand on our treatment at the Neythians Association, the Association of Business and Service, the Association of Professionals, or ASI. There are people in livestock production, but also people working in store, services, etc. They're the ones who could best weigh and assess the interest and also take the consumer side. All of this was needed during this discussion, so what is happening with this bill is that the minister and the majority of the employment committees are in a very limited process of working inside the council to run this case, which will be responsible for the future treatment of a dairy company that damages the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u68	Mr. President. I present an opinion of the Commission with a change in the bill to legalize the changes to the Constitution laws and to the registration and valuation of real estate (explanatory). In the beginning, it may be right to review the reasons for this law, which is to state clearly the source and implementation of the ownership of an electronic entry. With Article 12. legislation on the changing of the synonyms, electronic laws and other electronic services, No. 151/2018, this change was made at 2 mgr. Thirty-nine. Persuasion, No. 39/1978, that the Court's panels were permitted to announce an electronic confirmation of the document's declaration if the registry had previously been corrected. It also referred to a provision for temporary II in the laws on the extra income of the state's funds. However, it did not require that property be canceled by e - mail. Rather, it was based on an electronic declaration based on an electronic declaration on a declaration. Then there was falsely referred to a provisional law on the extra profits of the state's funds instead of the provisional regulations in the synoptic law. This bill is suggested to the 39th gr. Protocols will be changed so that there will be a clear warrant to cancel ownership by e-mailing. This emphasizes that prior implementation of the declaration remains unchanged, but right heads are also available reference with an electronic entry. In addition to the above, it is suggested that reference be canceled to the law on the extra profits of the state's funds. It is suggested that a minister be allowed to review further the implementation and technical requirements for declarations via an electronic directive in the same way as on the application of an electronic entry. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bryndís Helgadóttir and Guðmundur Bjarni Ragnarsson from the Ministry of Justice. So the bill suggests changes to the synoptic laws and the registration laws and the evaluation of real estate. These changes are presented to ensure that electronic media can begin in accordance with the existing programme in this topic. The committee does not have any material comments to the bill but suggests minor technical adjustments. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of the words of the law on the extra revenues of the state's budget, it's in the b-mer 3. Come: compare temporary II regulations in the laws on the extra profits of the state's funds. 2. Paragraph 4. put it this way: In the case of a requirement holder, a public agency, a bank, a savings fund, a pension fund, an insurance company or stock market, despite the regulations of 3 mg, there is no requirement. 24th g., paying a fee for mechanical requests from a member of the Parliament book if the inquiry is necessary and directly associated with correction of the registration of claimors, and there is a service contract with the Iceland National Congress. The person standing here was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion according to a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under this view, the above - mentioned publications, Páll Magnússon, Kolbrún Kolbrán of the Árnadóttir, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steinfredur Valdimarsson, Steinunn Árnadóttir, Aarnar of Ingi Pétursson, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Avjörðurdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u69	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a commission about billing on stage art. In handling the case of the committee, the main points were discussed in paragraphs 17 and 18. The bill, as well as the suggestions given by some sources, was offered to change the wording of words for emphasis and explanation. Advisorys were generally positive about the development of a universal set of stage arts and the subject of the bill. The committee held the view that there would be a better way for a series of words in paragraphs 2 and 9. The bill, which discusses the role of the National Theatre and the Icelandic Party, would be changed in terms of the first tenth work of the National Theatre and the Party and then would be their role in cultivating national interest. The committee agrees with these suggestions, and it seems reasonable that their artistic role will be further emphasized. The committee also suggests that similar changes will be made in Article 19. that discuss opera activity. Then, according to the comments of some members, the rendering of Article 3. The bill, about the tours the National Theater says, would have been better, in comparable terms, in plays. This law would clearly show that there were goings - not only to travel abroad but also to the arrival of foreign artists to this land. The Commission agrees with the view that the wording of an earlier law will be more suitable to ensure that the conduct of the Icelandic field list in the international community will be changed in this way. Commenting on the bill, it was noted that national theater authority has the authority to meet without national theater managers, e.g. application for that office would be considered. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests the final case of 2nd. Section 4. will be changed in the way that a national theater director regularly meets a national theater hall hall. The committee meetings discussed the role of the stratosphere but in Article 17. The bill suggests that the funds will be divided into two departments, a department of professional groups, and a share of interest groups in stage art. For the Committee it was found that a great loneliness prevails among the reporters to continue divulging between sponsors to professional and amateur groups across the subject of the bill, where the interests of both groups would be better organized into the present system. Thus, there would be differing criteria for distribution to the groups. The Union of Icelandic playmates, falsely referred to as Icelandic playmates, is a group of interested persons who feel that the current arrangement has given them well, which is because the Society receives applications from its members and makes proposals for funding to the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Society believes that changing arrangements would reduce the strength of others, including Since we do not have a party to Iceland's Sports Association, we do not have a set-up or a strategist fund. In view of the fact that both groups involved in the matter of interest in the provision of the provision, the committee feels that it is not advisable to suggest that the article will be changed in terms of being provided only by employment groups and that the current arrangement for interest groups will remain unchanged. The committee's meetings discussed Article 18. The bill, suggested that a minister be allowed to set up a covering point list. The speakers agreed on the importance of establishing a covering centre, but it was critical that no obligation was required to set up such a center but a minister only allowed authority to do so. Many viewpoints were tore up the importance of such centers for support, but particularly the international opportunities for which stagers would have missed because of lack of support for promotional work and the lack of a full - costume list. The committee agrees that it is time to set up a covering centre, especially in view of the cultural and financial benefits of such a work. The Commission proposes a formal application of the Agency's institutions, as well as the importance of ensuring funding for the management of such centers. It is important to enable stagers to practice international cooperation, both to enrich local art and to increase the way and respect of international shows. In addition to the changes that have been explained in the Committee's list, there are several legal modifications. The Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under the heading, Páll Magnússon writes to chairman, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir, and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who was absent from the case but considered it according to a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. The rule of staff for the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u70	Mr. President. I review the General Commission's opinion of a proposal for the resolution of a treatability strategy for the period 2020/20/2023. Various visitors met the Committee, but this council resolution proposal is submitted under the laws on women's rights and male rights and is the seventh administration program established by the government. For the first time, there is now an action in the program that affects the topic range of all recruitments. True, this is not an exhaustive list of work done in behalf of equality, but the emphasis and priorities of the government are made quite clear here. Of course, the committee's discussion emphasized the importance of providing sufficient funds for the operations below. In addition, a large proportion of action was intended to be extended within the framework of recruitmentrs responsible for the operation. This committee counts as an occasion to discuss the wide range of equality parameters. In view of the values of transsexual autonomy, the Commission considered it important to state that this plan is intended to be applied to people of all genders where appropriate. Total Review of Track No. 10/2008 has begun and is the hope of a review by the Committee taking into account the multiplicity of gender and gender. Furthermore, the commission reminds us that when dealing with equality, it is important to consider the position of especially vulnerable groups to form disabled people and non - Israelites. Of course, information was obtained on the treatment of this case in the Committee, including the the employee's ratio of equals to the councilors. There is a failure to define how much of the work of the relevant employee will defend such projects because equal agents in the recruitment process take many other tasks at the same time. The committee suggests that the frame is clear about the work of an equal agent and aims it to define the level of proportion of non-employment activities required for those under them. It also came to the opinion that representatives of the labour market and community should be seated in the Management Board's Management Board's Management Board on the matters of trust and trade discussed in the a-arms of Project 8. The group sit representatives of the Department of Professional and Development, the Ministry of Economics and Economics, the Ministry of Presidency and the Equal Opportunities Office. The control team was formed following the arrival of law required for a equally pay-off by the Committee on Equal Opportunities. The Platform group was assigned to review a number of opinions that might arise during the induction process at the same pay standard and validation of the equally pay system. The group has handled a number of opinions and standards and guidelines for the implementation of certifications. The Ministry of Presidency says that this arrangement has given us a great deal of rest, i.e. to have grouped within the council with special expertise in the same pay certificate, and do not consider any other party to be involved. There is an overall review of equality-shaped, including magazines are discussed as a pay certificate as it is, of course, having great consultation with stakeholders. These include those involved in pay equals and employment markets. The representatives of SA, BHM, ASI, BSRB and the Union of Iceland. In addition, the Office of Equal Opportunities has taken care of consultation and cooperation with key stakeholders on equally pay-relevants, both in full reexamination of equality laws and in the management group, that it is in accordance. The committee decided not to make a change in this time of the operating group's command. Work force 9 stipulates that they should investigate the basis for the order of the workforce of the government and the workforce on pay equals and equality in the labour market. The group that had served in 2012 and in itself was not laid down, but the group that had been given a general pleasure in the work of the group and those who were there declared willingness to sit in this new group of consultations. The committee concluded that there is good reason to reassign such a group, so it suggests that the schedule will be strictly laid down for ordering the group. There was also a view that induction of the equally pay position did not contribute to the elimination of the sex pay and the need to investigate its causes more fully. The committee considers the work group to be the ideal site for such studies and was given a number of action measures in a report. At the same time, there was talk of a national resolution to the better terms of women's classes that were approved on June 11, 2018. There, the General concluded to hide the financial and economic secretary's involvement with the labour market and the local representatives in ways to ensure equality with the salary of the different public professions. It was to be determined in an analysis of the salary of large groups of women compared to other classes of government education and responsibilities followed by a special agreement to correct the terms of these classes. The committee calls attention to the fact that this work is not started and believes that if I brought up this service group, the person I previously called attention will be on occasion to assign him to the implementation of the decision for the diagnosis of remuneration. The need to bridge the gap between daily care and orlofs was discussed in terms of prolongation. Of course, it is a pleasure to tell of the fact that the bill has been recommended to correct a change in the law of birth and parentorf because it is assumed to be extended by step. It is scheduled later this afternoon, so we feel that this program is going to be fine with that. Chapter C gives a new note that there is reason to suggest that the implementation of the programme will be based on the implementation of the national policy programme for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and the extensive investigation of equality within the police and on improving the role of women in the class. In the treatment of the case, it was repeated notes that another responsible member of 15,1, men, and teachers, cooperated with advice on the development of teachers and school directors, had been laid down, while another tool was supposed to be employed as an alternative tool for at least part of the excipients. The Committee stresses the Ministry of Education and Culture that it will be solely responsible for the project, but it can be expected after the incident, to consult the Community General's successor on the development of employment. The Commission also suggests in consultation with the Ministry that the D- team of projects will be proposed to process existing proposals on how to improve the quality and coordination of the job development and to permanently improve the teacher's working environment. Joints 15,4 discuss the need for equal gender in all aspects of social life as well as students of foreign and disabled students. It emphasizes that these actions are shaped in cooperation with Icelandic high school students. A 16 - year assignment suggests that there will be an increase in equality and security in schools and sports and youth activities by teaching and removing sexual discrimination, sexual harassment, threats, and violence. That was a very good review of the Teacher Union of Iceland, which included: it said that the school system was a tool to influence public equality and that it was necessary to educate students as well as that the education of teachers would be promoted. In an article entitled Anarchy of the Plan 2019◯2022 on action against violence, we feel that long ago it is time to promote teaching about sex practices, sexual behavior, agreements, and boundaries at all levels of school. We are also convinced that any degree of teaching requires that there be a need for gender. It is assessed by the Committee that increased education in these topics has a beneficial effect on equality in general and that it is particularly effective to reduce sexual discrimination and violence. Section E of men's equality and of equality requires two tasks, i.e. Be aware of the responsibility and role of men in the context of #metoo and then the study of the poor use of men in the health of an electronic service technique. In discussing the matter, it was noted that men need to be involved in an equal struggle on their grounds of the committee's viewpoint and that men's angle of view will also be examined in the work programme where appropriate. In the last chapter, we will discuss international work and emphasis on changing consumption practices with gender and environmental considerations, the involvement of men in international equality, the induction of equality in developing cooperation, and the equal opportunities for gender in international exchange. A respectable president. Finally, the commission declares support for this strategy and believes that its goals are practical and designed to improve the environment of equality. The committee has the importance of ensuring needed capital support for each procedure. There are some suggestions for changing that I have only studied in this committee study, and there are technical changes that appear on a special document. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes it contains. Under these publications. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, who was absent from the money supply, signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Orders for the Council of the United States, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Guðmundur Steindór Valdimarsson, Jándídursson, Steinunn Árnadóttir, Ánar Ág Pétursson, and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Avjörvardótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u71	President. As mentioned in the case of what? Just before then, a senator who gave the Commission opinion went on to give a fairly accurate and thorough review of the current strategy. You may initially remind me that one meeting of the General Education Committee was only appointed men, and they mentioned that they had, in spite of this, did quite well to proceed with the case. It was a bit of a fun moment to hear it. The committee received a number of visitors and quite good comments, and that is all there is to say. There's a very big, big case here. There is a change in how we deal with equality. It is not just equal to the sexes; it is in a much wider sense that we now discuss equality. As we face this great change, it is clear that we need to make sure that the funds and human force are indeed going to take action. It is also important that we remember to include in and in mind so - called minority groups, the groups we often define as sensitive, to form disabled people, and people of foreign background. This is well defined in the committee's opinion and is handled very well. I'd like to, with President's permission, to grab down a chapter that's about the administrations: ▪ In the treatment of the situation, the Committee obtained information on the work ratios of the representatives of recruitment, and it was found that a major failure is defined as how much of the employee's work should be devoted to such projects. Equal representatives of all other jobs, along with the work of an equal agent, who has grown considerably. Project 3 [this strategy] suggests that the work programme and the work of an equal agent will be reviewed. - It's time to celebrate. --The firm includes the review because it is important that a clear frame covers the work of an equal agent and also aims to define the level of proportion of the person's work to play the role of an equal agent is intended for them. I've got equal agents on the 13th floor. Equalisation to send an economist of an annual worksheet on the status and development of equality to the Ministry's topic field and is their role in the implementation programme. In the treatment of the situation, an equal living room requested that the Agency's role in the processing of the report be clear. According to the Ministry of Presidency, the role of an equal office is only to see to it that a summary is submitted, which is the role of the Minister for Equal Opportunities, to evaluate the role of implementation programmes on the 10th Article of Equal Opportunities. Equal song. If, then, it is in the hands of an equal agent in cooperation with an employee of an equal law firm to follow up and ensure the implementation of the activities of the local Ministry. It was important to me that this appeared to me. We need to take a close look at how the work of an equal agency is going to develop, taking into account that we are expanding everything that has to do with equality. The committee also discussed the work market and pay equals of the sex and discussed that at the time, an action group was established on pay equals that were very successful at the end of the assigned professional angle. The results of this group's work included The government's equal pay standard. What can be said further with that work, as we are wondering how to get ahead, it is said in the opinion that it would be wise to extend the order of this group, as it were, that our assignments have gone astray. We now have an equal standard and equally pay-authorization that takes equal pay in institutions and businesses. What's missing is that we can start thinking of how the same salary will be guaranteed within comparable institutions, and I'll mention even the Land Hospital and the Nurse's Hospital that I'll be talking about. Perhaps the conclusion is that it is not possible, but it might be a viewpoint to wonder. They are the same with rural society, at least of similar magnitudes. The equal wage standard is based on the so-called work group, so it is difficult to find out when we're about to introduce the same pay certificate as we go down to smaller institutions and companies because it's very expensive to install the same pay position. It's gonna be interesting to hear how it's going. The article refers to the prolongation of oralfs, and later today the bill will be about extending ordinarily. It is good to remember that yesterday's media review of Mental Health shows that birthworm should be taken to ensure the child's best interests. It is also reversed because birthorof is based on the needs of the labour market, so it was a good introduction to the discussion that will be later today. There is also extensive equality in education and culture, sports and youth activities. It is a pleasure to see that the next work is to be done in cooperation with the Icelandic high school community. It's a pleasure to see that we have direct consultation with our students, and I welcome them. At the end, I'd like to mention only a chapter called Men and Equality. Men need to be more aware of their responsibilities and roles. It's connected to #metoo or # I like it and I like it very much if we can take some steps there. At the same time, I find it very helpful to see that men are expected to participate in the equality struggle on their own terms. It's very good to see it there. Finally, a worldwide work is being done. In 2015, I arrived to write a report on environmental equality in the North, which was done in the time of the foreign minister, hombre. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, explained how equality would affect the northern sex. It was shocking to see the dramatic difference that all the changes we now face had on the sexes. I'm going to make this work for a while, hoping that the matter will be well advanced at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u72	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal for a collection of public taxes and a pay on behalf of the most important economic and business committee on this matter. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors, as the committee noted. The bill proposes a new global law on collecting and paying public taxes. The objective of the bill is also to ensure the legal security of currency to state funds when it comes to collecting public taxes, legally establishing current activities, and increasing transparency so that the rules on the subject will be met in one place. This includes some changes to the current rules, which include: is intended to increase the equality of currency. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are cited by the bill. The official reference to the bill is made by the European Union's partner. It was noted that the State's collectment due to a reimbursement of an answer grew unchanged from the fact that the law on the payment of public pay was set up in 1987. However, the country's response to the law increased considerably since the time, was 6.7% when the law was given, and the local authorities noted that they did not enjoy any of the benefits or benefits resulting from electronic taxation. The Commission therefore aims to revise agreements with the local communities for the State's collectment of response standards, as the relationship has requested. The government's approval is natural to reflect the cost of the collection. It is then reasonable to believe that in recent years, rural society enjoys the general tax returns. The committee calls attention to the need for good cooperation between state and rural society on tax returns. The Community review points out that in accordance with national and economic objectives, 2019◯2023 (U.S.A.) signed in April there is a basis for such cooperation. The objective is to improve taxation, including with better monitoring of tax collections and black employment, and with better use of cash disposal. The committee believes that it is important that this cooperation be developed at a time and carried out. The Commission's declarations are attributed to the Commission's opinion but in Article 8. The bill is given for reimbursement of overcrowded funds and is intended to replace the law on reimbursement of overcrowded taxes and pay, No. 29/1995, which will be removed at the value of the bill. Most of the rules are set out in paragraph 8. The bill, on the other hand, and in the current law. In addition, the regulations are 3,◯4. mg 114. g. income tax laws adopted into the bill and thus gain the value of reimbursement of overcrowded government taxes other than income tax. It also states that the rules also cover fines. The joint review of the Associations of Professional Life, the Associations of Industrial Society, the Associations of Economic Corporations, Business and Service, and the Associations of Travel Services include made comments for 4 mg. Section 8. The bill contains new indicators that impair the right of what has been overreached public interest rates. In accordance with local legislation, a reimbursement budget due to overcrowded general interest from the time of overpaying has taken place until reimbursement, with no interest paid within 30 days of the recovery of funds. This principle remains unchanged according to Article 1. Section 8. The bill. Two. 2.g. A current law requires the exception that interest should be paid from the time when the person truly laid out a requirement for paying overpaying taxes or paying the taxes. According to the Commission, this law has not been tested, and the majority of those who have a remuneration requirement for overpaying general interest under the principle have fallen beyond the 30 day limit. In addition, judicial action indicates that rich requirements are set aside for a genuine reimbursement requirement for the development of the interest rights. Thus, courts have not felt that they would be acting in advance when paying public remuneration enough to form a demand for a tractor growth. Four. Section 8. The bill is confined to the possibility of requiring a tractor interest demand for reimbursement in cases where such a requirement does not come to the attention of head tax committees or courts. The objective is to set a record similar to that of anyone in such a situation. An article with the bill says: The basis for this new rule is to ensure the equality of currency and that they will be equal regardless of what special expertise or special help they have or enjoy. The Commission believes that the change from the current project proposed in the bill is designed to enhance clarity and equality. Figure 4 mg. Section 8. are specified in two cases where the end-of-the-line growth will be paid and will depend on whether a reimbursement requirement is made after the introduction or prior to the introduction. This report explains that by creating an introduction, it means that until a successful government accepts a remuneration requirement. The committee believes that the above aim for their equality will be better achieved by dismissing expressions of reimbursement to the payer. In addition, the committee feels that the time goal is based on a decision until a government in the Law text is established. Having agreed with the Ministry and the head of State, the Committee suggests a change in terms of 4 mg. Section 8. where there is a requirement to pay a weight interest from the administration body's decision to reimburse the budget, which has not been paid within 30 days of the time limit. If payment is made because a tax collector has not provided the necessary information, however, the start date for interest should be based on the date when the missing information has been submitted endpointed has not been submitted within 30 days of the time point. The information required in this area is designed to form information on an active bank account for deposit and information that needs to be available in cases where the swelling or estate is entitled to pay, such as the authority on who has the authority to take over the estate for the estate of the estate, or other factors that need to be implemented for this purpose may be reimbursed. The review of the Agency and the review of the Committee established a view that this order has gone beyond the current rights of an equal to demand a relationship to pay overpay taxes on the other hand and to repay overpaying taxes. The committee has an understanding of such views, but it points out that because of the complexity of public taxes and expenditures, it is difficult to see that one rule can cover all events. Then it may be dangerous to set a wide range of inquisitive guidelines on reimbursement, perhaps creating a different impulse to overpay taxes. Upon receiving legal experience, the Committee encourages consultation between the Ministry and the organization, who previously explained to determine if there is any reason to change the legal order. 16th degree. The bill is authorised for the head of the state tax to cancel individual requirements for the Parliament and rural funds to further establish the relevant conditions. Commenting on one of these conditions, the agent of the debtor's commission made comments that one of those conditions is that a currency has previously been denied payment by a credit agent of creditors. The Agency considers a certain misdemeanor of the state taxpayer's visa on the Senate and rural funds for a release of the taxpayer's agent. Sets the Agency to cancel the requirement. The bill shows that a specific requirement is given with reference to the purpose of a person's payment correction and that the right thing to say is that the currency has tried remuneration before writing. In addition, the requirement is to call attention to the resources of an agent of credit that is supposed to be the first resort made by individuals in significant payments. The committee feels that it is proper to maintain a requirement for payment from a credit agent before being able to depreciate a charge according to Article 16. The bill. However, the committee has come to realize the viewpoint of a debtor's agent that in some cases it may be unfair to make it an undisputed condition for the application of written authority that a currency has previously been denied payment. Having agreed with an agent in debt, as well as with the Ministry and the State head, the Committee suggests that the Committee should be assigned to Article 3 of 1.mg. Section 16. it should be noted that the currency has either been denied remuneration or that the payment of adaptation attempts has been unsuccessful. In the case of such cases, it may be noted that those who insist on a remuneration contract will not be agreed on, that the payer will not be charged with remuneration, and that the credit agent of a credit agent will decide to cancel the remuneration search. The committee points out that, on the other hand, the 16th requirement remains. A warrant that will be subject to the government tax manager's assessment and administered in exceptional circumstances. Substitutions other than those outlined specifically in the Committee are technical and not intended to exert a material influence on the bill. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made in a committee study. Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsótttir was absent from the case, but under the writings of President Óli Haraldsdóttir Kárason, Director Brubbur Níelsson, who is probably not then, The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdny G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u73	Mr. President. As we know about this matter, the last month's report of the Minister of Justice, along with a financial and economic minister, was presented for the conduct and reasons of Iceland's rejection of the so-called grey list of FAFF. One of the main objectives of FAFF is to promote effective production of legislation, regulations, and measures to fight particularly against financial resources, terrorist funding, and other related threats to the stability of the global financial system. The excuses picked up in this report are relatively cheap to me. I'm not going to make her anything special to talk about here, but I'd like to mention it anyway. It is, in fact, there. Pointed to the frequent change of government, which seems to be a bit like the hired officials, if not the minister. I'd just like to step aside from the practitioners of the law that went into effect during the summer. Now that there is to be a change in certain aspects of them, I would like to mention interesting comments made by High Court Attorney Magnús Óskarsson, which I will follow, but the Law text says that the common people have access to information about real owners. This year, July 6th, took force in the registration of real owners and these are new rules here on the country as we know it. For some time, though, there have been rules in this case that in a annual report of the management board, ten of the largest shareholders at the end of the account year and all shareholders should be informed if they are fewer than ten and one percent of their stocks by the end of the year. The new law goes much further. All legal agencies in the country or registered in a company file, including foreign partner and private partner branches, are now obliged to report their actual owners to the national taxpayer. The law also applies to such a trust fund or to a similar person, but it is likely to be less than the number of agencies currently employed or registered in a company file. As regards the definition of what real owners are, the new law points to the law on how to take action against the money-covering and the funding of terrorism. It is a fairly long definition, but in simple terms, the real owners are individuals who own or control more than 25% of the lawyers, or they may be viewed as having legal authority in another way. If it is not possible to find a real owner, e.g. Because of the widespread possession that no individuals have, or control, the legal rights or have any doubt about the possession, the individual, one or more, in charge of the legislature's activities, should be considered to be a real owner. In the opening law of the new law on the registration of real owners, it is stated that the purpose of a record of real owners is to prevent money theft and terrorist funding. However, it is clear that this information will also be useful for another purpose, for the Law text says that the public has access to information about real owners. Thus, information may be used in a variety of trades to explore human relationships or e.g. in judicial cases to find out what is acceptable. It also opens up access to a lot of information for journalists, that's to be mentioned. According to the new law, the actual owners of a new registration will be reported in a company file and the registered authority is obliged to report any changes to the national taxpayer within two weeks. In accordance with preliminary legislation, persons who are already enrolled in a company file at the entry of the law shall provide information on actual owners no later than June 1, 2020. This date now exists for the conversion to March 1 and is about this bill. The law has the authority to impose strict administrative laws, and it is stated that courts are difficult to consult if there is a conflict in the law of repairs. As a result of violations of the law, the government tax manager is authorized to commit daily fines and administrative fines that may be somewhat high. The day's fines can be up to 500,000 dollars. Ten percent of that time. This amount of money may already have been made by the authorities before a person who claims to be guilty might get the conclusions of a court of law on the right decision made by the governor of the tax. In addition, the head of the state tax can bring down the registration of parties and the deadline for those who do not wish to make decisions to the taxpayer is a set of three months which will be considered a rather short delay. Hence, it does not seem realistic to consult a court that means that the governor is really unsupervised when making such decisions. Regarding bringing the deadline to March 1, I want to finally mention that it is unlikely that many companies will know about these deadlines, so it would be necessary to advertise it even further. I'm stressing it here because, of course, these are very important laws, and beyond that, they are important to us. As we know, there has been a lack of credit for the government and the government, we must say at the moment, that we should have fallen on this list. It is hard to see why the original decision to leave the session at the beginning of the summer next year was decided. I believe it would have been more convenient, Mr. President, if this delay went e.g. Together with the annual accounts of most partners at the end of September, each year, i.e. Eight months after the end of the accounting year, according to 109 gr. each year's bill. The Almanac year is the account year for most companies and could include partners, accountants, and others involved in making their annual accounts, making sure that this information about real owners is submitted as soon as annual accounts are submitted. This is what I wanted to do in this discussion. I think this should have been a better look, and I expect it to be done because I think it would be more appropriate for this to go with a year's balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u74	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a transgenic law, No. 80/2009 (gender registration), which transports more of the General and Education Committee. This change means that Icelandic citizens who live abroad have the right to change the registration of their sex and names and instead of the words 2,◯4. mg of 2 mg. Section 5. The law, two thousand and one, three and a half. mg It's rather technical, but extremely important. In Comb 4. The law on sexual autonomy requires the right of individuals to change the official registry of gender. In 1st. Section 4. says that any person who has reached 18 years of age has the right to convert his or her gender into a national record. A request to make such a change directly to the Iceland National Publications Index. As a result of the changed registry of a generation of people the applicant's right to change their name. This country has been based on the principle under international civil rights that your personal legal rights should be passed on to Icelandic law if the person is in Iceland's household. Thus, in international private rights, the principle of supporting members of the household is generally applied rather than to state - of - state when personal links are considered. So this principle has been regarded as valid according to international civil rights in the management of national governments as a subject of individual rights under the administration of the State of which members of the household will be settled. In this way, Iceland's National Constitution does not have jurisdiction to address the material needs of Icelandic citizens living abroad for changes in gender and concomitant names. From the above measures, measure 1 mg. Section 4. The laws on sexual autonomy apply exclusively to individuals living here who have a legal home. It is therefore necessary to make a change in section 4. The laws and the rights of Icelandic citizens living abroad to change the registration of sex and their name to 1st. The article. At the same time, a change in reference to 2 mg is suggested. Section 5. The law that deals with the change in the registered sex of a child so that children who are Icelandic citizens who live abroad will be allowed to change the official registration of their generation. It has been explained that by changing it, there are Icelandic citizens living abroad who want to change their gender logures to a greater degree the right to change their name than other Icelandic citizens living abroad who want to change their name and not write a generation. Must feel that this space right is based on objective views and therefore justified. As I say, the bill is of the greater part of the General and Education Committee, Páll Magnússon, Birgir the Ármannsson's Son, Steindór Olsen, Hrafn Gunnarsson, Vala Helgadóttir Helgaótir, Jón, Steinni Valdimarsson, and Þórarinn Ingi's Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u75	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee program on bill to legalize the law of the General Assembly, No. 55/1991, with subsequent changes (explanatory access to information on the Directorateship of the Council). The bill suggests a change in the General Assembly Act because of changes in information legislation adopted during the last legislation, where the principles of the law for access to data were extended and extended to the Council's administration, as would be further stated in the laws and regulations of the Presidency Committee, which would be established on the basis of them. The objective of the bill is to expand access to data at the General Assembly on the aspect under the Council's administration. However, to the Committee it was concluded that by drawing access to data on the International Commission, which is a bill of the bill, it appears that the access is limited. It was also noted that the approach was in a way negative by the long list of restrictions on the court. The Commission noted that there were regulations on access to data in the Norwegian Council, which is the exception of the Norwegian Enlightenment. However, in the Norwegian Code it is stated that the information laws apply to as much as appropriate by the implementation and exceptions of the rules and restrictions of access as well as by listing them. The Commission reports on access to the Agency's information administration in accordance with its information legislation, and although Norwegian information laws do not cover the Grand Parliament and that Norwegian Congress does not have legal requirements, such as the General Assembly, there is the limit of access to data comparable between the Parliaments. Thus, the rules appear to be intended to explain what goes on with the Council administration, what falls outside, and who will be allowed to limit access to those who want access to the data. So the committee does not suggest any change to the bill, but it is important that the president of the Generals and the Presidency Committee determine the rules, considering that they do not limit the rights to be guaranteed by the law. The Committee presented a viewpoint on the case requests for access to data on the International Commission and the request for a demonstration, while it suggests that access should be made directly to the General Assembly office and to be denied access to data may be given under the Committee of the Presidency. It was observed that in view of the fact that a prime committee is just one vote, there is no need to be more than that the prime committee confirmed the rejection of the General office. The committee considers it important to consider the IV treatment guidelines. the management of such requests applies to the management of information and therefore to the law's law on speech speed, limitation of request for information, and support and guidance. Thus, the Office of the Generals, appointed to take over the requests, must observe these guidelines as well as the presiding committee at the appropriate time. In addition to this, it is stated that open access to data from the government is a principle in Icelandic society and is aimed at ensuring transnational transparency and control of public interests. On the basis of the same viewpoint, the bill suggests that the public can access information about the activities of the Generals under its administration. In view of this principle, the Commission considers that only exceptionally it is proper to limit access to data on the Council's administration, and that these are logical grounds and viewpoints that the prime committee should consider and support their decision making. In view of the importance of receiving a solution from the prime committee, the Commission cites the precedents for the interpretation of information laws in order to avoid conflict in the interpretation of public information rights. Similarly, it is important that the rules set out exactly how decision-making will be conducted by the prime committee so that the public can determine where the ultimate authority is. The committee discussed the right to set a law code in the bill, allowing access to information at a certain time point. In the context, when information law was first set, no such provision was provided to limit access, so it is not relevant when data had been created by governments to see if access was granted to them. So the committee does not consider it proper to provide a time point in this regard, but it shows the importance of continuing to make information about the General government available on the council website. A respectable president. I have briefly explained the selected issues of the committee's opinion, but in other matters, I refer to the self - opinion of the committee. The remains Ingi Pétursson are now believed to have a warrant for 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under this opinion, the writer of the journals, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, along with the cur. The members of the Luneka Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Óli Björn Kárason, Braunri the son of Níelsson, Þorsteinn the Sæmundsson of Samunds, the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson, Orri Páll the son of Jóhannsson, and Þórarinn Ingi the Pétursson of Peters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u76	Mr. President. I'm here offering an opinion with a change in bill proposal to legalize various laws due to international fishing releases. That's an environmental and transport committee opinion. It should begin by informing us that, of course, the committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Eggert the Ólafsson of Transport and Regional Affairs of Transport. The committee received one review, from a nurse named Margrét Þ. Jónsdóttir. In short, the bill is intended to meet the demands of 188. Its requirements for the ban on the activities of young people are to be met by special companies who carry out registration and recruitment services in order to operate according to a standard system and a requirement for proof of health evidence to allow fishermen to operate on a fishing vessel. Only your doctor will do so. In the treatment of the case, the committee reviewed the changes required by the bill for the publishing of health certificates because of the work of fishing ships. The requirement for fishermen, other than machine and ship management, to confirm adequate health status, is new. A fisherman's work on a fishing vessel, which is 40 feet [24 m] long or longer or is averaged at sea for three days or more, should be a maximum of two years than one year if a fisherman is less than 18 years old. The time of health proof of machine and ship management is thus reduced from five years to two, as indicated in paragraph 2 of paragraph 4. The bill. The commission in this context to require health proof is aimed at ensuring the safety and health of fishermen and general interest in fishermen as well as in other sailors and inurbans. There was also a discussion on the dispensing of health certicates in view of the views of personal protection. The committee also held the view that the change proposed to make a health certificate and shortening the time to result in a multiplicity of seamen's health examinations, and it would be a good reason to make the adjustment that, in addition to doctors, nurses would be required to carry out such opinions. A report by the bill shows that the transport and local government department will consider the indication in consultation with the Ministry of Health for further implementation of the approved agreement with administration guidelines. The Commission agrees with the opinion that it will be considered as to whether there should be a broader authority within the medical profession to carry out such opinions, allowing more than doctors to do so and whether such a warrant would require changes in the requirements for education. It also discusses the term a fisherman, perhaps in many respects a novel English term, but not entirely. It turns out that this word is used in the bill, and I'm going to read from the committee's opinion word for word: The bill complies with the international release and provides an explanation of the term "fishman" to the European fishing, guard ships, pleasureboats, and other ships' legislation. The committee points out that in Article 3. However, the bill is used in terms of the word "shipmen " and" shipmen. " That concludes in paragraph 4. It is difficult to see the differences between the terms "fishman" and "wageman." The committee considers it important to agree in the term use to require the definition of the term'speciesmanagement' of a correct term and laid down duties according to the law, with reference to international release. The committee also states the importance of keeping to conform not only the use of the terms of the law but also within the laws. Hence, the committee suggests that the word "fishman " instead of the words" shipmates " and "politans " ◯ as well as a slight change in the wording of the material language of 2k. translated from the worldwide release.◯ Finally, the committee suggests some changes in word. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following two changes: 1st Paragraph 2 paragraph. Put it this way: Anyone who works or is hired to work on a fishing vessel, including a fishing ship, is a person who is an elder or one who is hired to work on a fishing ship. those who are employed in the labor sector. Oceans, law enforcement officers, other members of the government's permanent service, workers in a country who operate on ships or fishermen with fishing are not considered to be fishermen. 2. Change at Article 3. of which paragraph 2 puts it: an effective, adequate, reliable, safe service shall be provided, without cost, and in order to make it easier for fishermen to make their way into a ship. Other changes are, as noted earlier, changes in word. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, as quoted here, and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent from the case but signed in accordance with 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with this. Therefore, it is considered that it is formally signed. Councilmen Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the committee, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Guðjón Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Einar Einar Hjaltason, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savardótir, Orri Jóhannsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u77	Mr. President. They slide in here the commissions, and so here it's time for the Environmental and Transport Committee to consider a bill to legalize the changes in the laws of European fishing, guardships, cruise boats, and other ships, No. 30/2007, with subsequent changes. The committee discussed the matter as it should, and they arranged for eight guests. It also received reviews from six companions. It is very easy to see what you are talking about in a printed committee. In general to explain this bill, it is to say that it presents a change in the definition of the term'stifship' in the laws of Icelandic fishing vessels, watchships, cruise boats, and other ships, so that small ships are considered to be 15 meters of registration length or shorter instead of 12 meters earlier. Concomitant use is suggested for the change in Article 12. The law says the minimum number of ship management and mechanical management of fishing ships, shipships, and other ships is aimed at simplifying design rules so that they will only take into account the length of a ship. So if the bill is to be legalized, we need to consider changing education requirements to those who have the rights of a 40-foot ship to cover the gap of more than 15 meters of ships by reviewing Regulation No. 175/2008 of the management and mechanical rights and therefore the bill suggests that the changes will not be valid until September 1, 2020, so that they can be prepared. The safety of the crew and the rights. There were differences in opinion about the subject of the bill in the committee. The primary safety concern was the reduction in the crew of small vessels as well as the engine defense of ships from 12 meters up to 15 meters of registration length based on service contracts. It also came to the conclusion that there is no way of repairing cars in new ships because of their complex machinery. It was observed that those who have rights on a 40 - meter ship are allowed to operate on sea farms as long as 15 meters, after taking up an additional course, according to Regulation No. 175/2008 on the management and mechanical rights. It would be important to explain that these courses do not have the rights of any other 15 - foot [15 m] ship other than this ship. It was also pointed out that the change to 15 yards [15 m] of dandelion boats could be determined in the sense of correct fishing management, so the ships that fell under the change would never be out for more than 24 hours at a time. The Commission claims that regardless of the changes resulting from the legalisation of this bill, it is necessary to ensure that the number of small vessels in each ship's crew meets the work load in every calm, and the rest period rules are carefully respected, in accordance with the rules of collective agreements and the laws that apply to them. The Commission considers it important that we review the Regulation to be careful about the qualifications for education and experience. That is exactly the change from 12 meters to 15 feet to the definition of small vessels. As for the group of work, I am stating that the Committee is directed to the minister to appoint a team for the implementation of the changes required for the Regulation and to be taken into account. Sentenced representatives from the Federal Department of Transportation, Association, Technical Institutes and Marine Emergency Schools. The committee has stated that the safety concerns of the crew should be placed in place when these changes occur. With reference to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be passed on. It should be noted, then, that Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, signing this opinion in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and Jón Gunnarsson are signing this opinion in advance. So those who sign are Bergþór Ólason, president of the Committee, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Günánsson Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Einar Einar Hjaltason, Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson. Mr. President. I've finished my case again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u78	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for giving the order. I'm about to say it's a happy thing. This bill and commission are just fine, and I agree with that. It is a long time ago that the so - called miniboat system changed that boats were allowed larger boats. Have these boats become so powerful that they make over 1,000 tons, many of them, each year, and are made very rigid. The design of those ships, between 12 and 15 feet, has been difficult to deal with, and so on. I'd like to ask the senator if the fact that there has been too much boat in this category was that beaches didn't come to work on the bill. Do I believe that it is often and often because people are too tired? Whether or not this problem could be faced. That one person has a minimum rest enough to drive one piece of land or something like that. It says that it is for 24 hours of endurance, so I'm curious about knowing, so I ask the senator about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u79	Mr. President. I appreciate the leader of these questions. Of course, we heard worry, especially ship managers and motor operators, about this design, and then another comes back, i.e. For example, a group of beach fishing boats and such persons who had different opinions. It is often about how the human beings are exactly. A 40 - foot [12 m] boat may have machines bigger than some 15 meters [15 m] and vice versa, so it is a somewhat complex position. It was noted that this beach, as one prominently noted, may have been the result of falling asleep on guard and sailing on the beach. That's the question, like what? One inquirer mentioned what you can do about it. I'm very direct to this working group. We are actually asking that the staff appointed by the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the Association, the Technical Schools, and I do not now speak of an accident prevention school of sailors, handle all the matters of security when these boats and these ships are on the move and therefore how could it be prevented people from falling asleep? But now, there is not only one person on a boat who may fall asleep but more people on it. There is some way to set some rules that make sure that these leaks are placed under this leak. But I don't think it'll be my word here to determine what way it will be, but the job of this working group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. He is quoting from a group that will work on this matter, and I know it's not easy to answer, but I wanted to bring this up because we are so lucky these days that the number of disasters is getting very smaller. It plays in the natural sense that the safety issues are better, the boats are much better, and technology has become so good with shipping and surveillance that it has been a year where no one has died at sea and is a cause of great joy. But I'm worried about this particular thing with these boats because they're made so stiff that men are often little rest to hometime. Often on board there are three, five, and six men in these boats that are made out so much, and of course they're trying to do it, but these crew are under great pressure. These boats are fishing, as I said before, often a lot more than 200 to400 tons of boats were fishing a few years ago, so they're almost always at sea, if the weather permits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u81	Thank you. Foreman again. Of course, the development of technology in a variety of ways, both marine, announcemental, and global GPS status and other mechanical technologies, does reduce the quality of the crew. Of course, our main concern was this size limit, and it was noted to the committee that when it comes to increasing from 12 meters to 15 and the machinery I mentioned. But I can't take this out of my way, so if there are some guidelines that can be set that guarantee rest and that there will be room for seary to work in security, then this committee will be able to deal with it. However, the main element is that the design and length requirements are being adjusted, in line with technology and modern technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u82	Mr. President. I come up here to make a brief explanation for the warnings I have in this matter. So I'm one of the members of the Committee on Environment and Transport, and I approved it. That's not true. That's not true. It's true. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, that there had been differences of opinions among the reporters and the visitors. It may be simple to tell, just so it's obvious, that there were five reviews, one of which, in fact, came together from the unions of industry and the organizations in the fishing road. If we took this into account, it was the review and one that was positive and then three negative. The red thread of negative reviews from motor managers and metal techs, the Society of Commandlers and Iceland's Marine Association, believed that the bill was compromising the demands of rights and design of boats from 12 to 15 meters, would be the law and considered a reason to fear that it would not be followed properly according to the requirements of education and experience. The committee certainly tried to react and react, and this is reflected in the opinion of the committee that says: ◯ So the bill will be a law that needs to be considered for changes in the requirements of education in the Regulation. And like a cot. The manager reviewed the above court hearings that the number of workers in each crew must be in line with the work load and that the Sabbath law is fully respected and directed to the minister to order a team for the implementation of the changes required in the Regulation. This may have come to my notice, since I did not feel sure that the representatives of the above comments would be sure that these matters would remain in this working group. It's in the opinion that he will be, by permission of the president, Sentenced representatives from the Department of Transportation, Association, Technical Institutes, and Marine Prevention Schools, Virgil. There was a discussion on the Committee that the Technical School would actually fulfill being an umbrella or a representative of the authorities who would have described these concerns, the company of motorists and metal professionals, the community of shipmen and Iceland's Marine Association. But there is a connection that I find hard to see, and even more after I went through this afterwards and went through who is sitting in charge of this school. The relationship there is nothing, so I just want to make sure that we expand it, that it will be used to ensure that these parties have access to it. I kind of think it's awkward to make a special suggestion that a group will be appointed to make sure that their concerns are cared for if they don't sit down at the table. But I can only trust that this will be enough, even if I had wanted to see it more clearly than thought a reason to come up here and make an account of this warning and then will see to it that my concerns are going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u83	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a change from a health committee. This is a proposal for interpretation of the studies of depression among older citizens. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a member of the Social Advisor of Iceland's Association, the Medical Association of Iceland, and the Social Science Center of Iceland. News came from social science at the University of Iceland, Social Advisor of Iceland's Association, Iceland's Medical Association, Mosfellstown, and Iceland's Hospital. The proposal suggests that a health minister will try to examine and measure elderly citizens' depression. To that end, it is suggested that a minister be committed to appointing a committee, including a committee. The scope of the problem and the best way to prevent depression among older citizens is to cope with it. In the reviews given to the committee, general pleasure was shown at the objective of the proposal. Among other things, social factors had a profound impact on the well - being of older citizens. A powerful network of connections, support, movement, activity, social activity, and society in general could therefore be protected from anxiety and depression. It would be important not to overlook this social aspect of the problem, and the order of the committee for studies of older people's depression also took into account. In this regard the committee points out that the proposal suggests that the committee will appoint nine individuals and is specifically designated as members of the organisation's organisations and organisations for the seating of individuals. M.a. comments were made that the members of the Committee were not expected to represent social advisers, hospital staff, or occupational therapists. The committee agrees with these comments, thinking that a minister will be better able to provide sufficient space for evaluation of how the committee will be best organized. With reference to this, the Commission suggests a change in the proposal of the material, but it also aims to ensure a cross-cutting system of the Committee, focusing on physical, mental, and social health. The University of Iceland's Social Sciences evaluated various projects, databases, and research that have led to the well - being of older citizens and pointed out that it is important to look to the existing databases. It was noted that information about the feelings of older ones is included Find a number of projects that have been carried out within the social science field of Iceland's University, including the U.S.A. Projects on anxiety, depression, loneliness and social activity of older people, as well as in research centres in child protection and family protection and the Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland. There would be a number of data, including By a government surgeon who might be considered at work. More recently, knowledge and emphasis would have to be used to reflect advancing age, not only on health issues but also on changes in social status and development. Finally, Iceland's Medical Association pointed out that it is unrealistic to assume that the results of the study could lie prior to June 1, 2020. The Commission agrees with this view and therefore suggests that the Minister of the Council will make the results of the 2021 staff. The committee suggests that the Council's Recontraction proposal will be accepted, but by the change of 2 mg. The proposal puts it this way: ▪ The Council introduces the results of the committee at the spring council of 2021.◯ Under this, all the members of the committee, the one that stands, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Árnadóttir Kolbönnadóttir, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Kolbrún Mogensen, and Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u84	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you and celebrate the fact that this matter of Congress has been granted publicity and payment on the World Health Committee. We know that this is not a matter of Congress at all and that I know the chairman of the Committee, Vala Völg Helgadóttir Helgaóða, and her companions, such as Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and the Halla of the Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, my best thanks for giving this matter a walk. This is important, and it's fun to have a parapolitic support like this. This matter was the first thing I proposed for this council in the fall and was one of the priorities of the United States, and I think it's one of those matters that can be important to a lot of people in this country. Mr. President. In Iceland it is estimated that some 15,000,200,000 people suffer from depression. This is an enormous number, and the depression of older citizens is a special challenge. The challenge is even. in that this is partly a hidden and unrecognized problem. Similarly, the percentage of older citizens with symptoms of depression is twice as high as in the general population in other age groups. Here, the use of antidepressants and anxiolytics with the world's most pronounced causes is especially in the elderly. According to the World Health Organization reports, depression is one of mankind's most difficult diseases and can be life - threatening. Depression, loneliness, and depression are not only social ills but also very dangerous health. So the disease is very costly, except that it adversely affects the quality of the person you are dealing with. But, Mr. President, depression is often curative, and it can always be taken care of, at least In the vast majority of cases. Mr. President. The number of older citizens has increased largely in the United States and will increase in the coming years more than the number of older citizens will double in Iceland in the next 25 years. We see that symptoms of depression in the elderly can be a variety of factors, such as changes in behavior and attitude, along with impaired mental and physical abilities. Of course, a person of all ages may develop symptoms of depression, but the way he or she treats the elderly may differ. The loss of a mate after a long marriage, loneliness, effortlessness, immobilization, loss of independence, economic anxiety, social isolation, and even life - loss and nonexistence can be more important causes than in other groups. In this regard, I would like to point out that a section of older citizens in this country is in poor standing and may thus have fewer opportunities to get help. Others have also noted that this group is even more reluctant to seek help when it comes to spiritual distress than are other age groups. We also see that it may be easy to overlook the symptoms of depression in the elderly. Many symptoms of depression may be considered a normal complication of aging, and there may be overlaps between physical neglect and the side effects of drugs. As a result, even elderly ones may be less likely to receive appropriate treatment for their depression. A nursing home can have a spiritual effect on those who suddenly face new and other circumstances in close association with new and strangers. I think it's a very important matter in so many ways. I am convinced that possible solutions to elderly depression need to be specific and custom in the age group, as well as prevention. We see that the trends in this group and others have often been in the use of medicinal products that, of course, are often warranted, but we need to consider other concomitant therapies or even their concomitant medication. In this regard, e.g. to improve social counseling, facilitate visits to gerontologists, psychiatrists, and psychiatrists at medical clinics. Similarly, increasing exercise has been considered a reasonable way to cope with depression, so it is important that people have her facilities and even associate with pets in nursing homes have also been referred to as a way to cope with leading and loneliness. Therefore, Mr. President, it is evident that many paths, both large and small, are effective in our fight against the terrible disease that depression can be. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that this discussion is quite foreign, and in Britain it has even been established a special office, the minister of loneliness. For that reason, the then prime minister of Britain, with permission of a president, said: The Oneness of life is not partial. Loneliness can strike all of us, but together we can overcome it. Mr. President. I'd like to inform you that I made a comparable pact proposal some 15 years ago here at the council, but that didn't involve the proposal. What a joy it is that 15 years later, the Allied Council is ready to initiate this investigation, as is suggested here, with the objective of taking decisive action, as well as that we can all as a community to overcome this disease! It is quite clear, Mr. President, that depression, anxiety, and loneliness are not supposed to be normal footfish. It is so important that people have a purpose in life, but it is also very important that they be together. You're enjoying yourself, as it says. We are social creatures as animal species, and it is important that we associate with one another. The pace must not be so prevalent in society that we stop caring for one another. When it comes to older ones in our lives and how we treat them, each family needs to take a look at itself. One of the more and more important things to do is bridge the gap between generations. I think the youngest generation will benefit especially from having close contact with its grandparents, grandparents, and great - grandmothers. This would simply improve everyone's life. Finally, Mr. President, I am convinced that this matter of Congress will improve people's well-being and that's a lot of work. I think that there are few cases bigger than just those that have to do with the happiness of life and the purpose of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u85	Mr. President. Rather than give a long talk, I prefer to give a brief answer. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson I'm going to use this opportunity to thank the senator for the hard work he has shown in this case and thank him for putting forth this fine effort. The committee has discussed this and has come to a good conclusion. I believe that with the emphasis on the proposal and by promoting the importance of viewing this problem, this disease among older people, it is a real problem that we need as a community to help deal with, we are taking a very important step. The reason for this answer is primarily thanks to why. A senator for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u86	Mr. President. I'd love to hear all the answers I get in this room. So thank you so much for that. I'd like to thank you too. A senator for the support he has shown to this group and to this matter. Of course, he is, as everyone here knows, a material expert is subject to the interests of senior citizens, and his work has certainly not missed anyone in this room and hopefully the news in general. I'm especially glad to hear a committee change as a boy. A senator sits in and expands the committee so that other professionals can enter her work. I think it's just one of the fine things that might draw the nation's attention that we in this blessed hall can agree on and agree on. We should not be afraid to say that much unites all the members of the council. This case, which presents an investigation and action against the depression of older citizens, is a fine example of how when we return together, we can succeed and contribute to the greater well - being of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u87	A respectable president. I wish. paritaprevir Ólafur Ágústsson's Augusti congratulated that 15 years of march may be, possibly, and possibly ending with this fine pact. When considering the subjects of the elderly, there is reason to respond. It's a group of paintings that affect all of us in various ways, and if we're lucky, it all affects us in the same way that we all grow old. The number of elderly 67 years of age and older will increase dramatically in the years to come. The economist predicts an increase of about 61% in this age group for the next 15 years, which, as a result, goes from 42,000 to perhaps 68,000. Under this, society's gonna have to get ready. This includes many opportunities, but there are also some fires we can avoid and should be careful that we prepare well for the growth, be aware of, and pursue as much as we can. We're here on important and serious issues, depression among older citizens, a disease that may affect 15,000,200,000 people in Iceland, as noted. 1st of the motion I am fortunate enough to be included in. Thus, people, many of them, may be confident that this disease, including the disease, will be silent and will not look for solutions. As noted in the case of 1st, a transporter surrounds people's lives with loneliness. It does not necessarily take the initiative to seek help, and if it does not have the stronger social care for itself, it often ends with people disappearing from the sea forever and giving up. Good and varied treatments are within reach, but in Iceland we rely mainly on and on the richest measure on medicine. More solutions, however, exist and are being used in increasing numbers. A respectable president. In 2014, a comparison of the sales of antidepressants between the northern countries indicated that Icelanders use 35◯50% more antidepressants than cousins. The difference is not that the prescribed amount is higher for each user in this country but that there are more users. When the use of antidepressants is examined in more detail by age groups and years, it can be observed that use increases with age and is most common in people over 70 years of age. Depression among the elderly is quite common, but studies have shown that 17◯30% of the elderly experience depressive symptoms. This proportion is even higher among the elderly in hospitals or nursing homes, up to 40%. This age-related increase in the use of antidepressants in this country is therefore consistent with what happens in the North countries, although the number of users in this country may be higher. A significant increase in antidepressants is seen in the oldest age groups over the age range studied from 2010 to 200212. Statistics in many Western countries show that more than 40% of all drug use is in the elderly. They take a lot more medicine on average than younger ones. According to one study of the Heart Guard, the elderly from house to house usually took four to five prescribed medicines, and the use is much higher among women, even though men are also proud of their medication. The use of nursing homes is even higher, but according to a recent review, or not so old, the average use of more than nine medicines in a local nursing home. Serious side effects of drugs among the elderly are increasing problems, and perhaps some drug check that does not fit. I'm not going to go out in the field of pharmacology, but health care professionals are very subject to it and are often asked if falls, reduced motor skills, cognitive impairment, urinary incontinence and weight loss are even due to drug side effects. It may be forgotten that the side effects of medicines or that drugs do not work as it is thought to be behind even one third of the elderly hospitalisations according to some studies. The depression of older citizens is often maligned and untreated, and over the years it has likely burned down that the diagnosis has reached a constant conclusion that a person has symptoms of brain failure when he shows symptoms that might indicate it. Nevertheless, depression is considered to be a risk factor in the event of cerebral failure. As symptoms of depression become more difficult, so it is more likely that there is a problem with your condition. Hence, it is so important that those who have these symptoms, whether with the likelihood of depression or congestive heart failure, get to professional levels in time to obtain a diagnosis and a solution that is appropriate. Among the elderly, the incidence of major depressive episodes is estimated to be approximately 1◯4%, while the incidence of non-serious depressive episodes ranged from 4◯13%. Studies in Norwegian have suggested this and that major depressive disorders are twice as high in older people between 70 and 85 years of age, as seen in a vehicle earlier. Depression among people with congestive heart failure is considerably higher than in older citizens. Of course, there is reason to ask why depression is more common among the elderly than others. It has been concluded that we may have changed circumstances as old age passes over us, that we need to face the fact that life is not completely completed, but it is reduced, and our skills are not as limited as it was, although we can do much to sustain it, i.e. Health problems may be one of the most important factors that contribute to depression in later years. Various age changes, e.g. in the brain, it is thought that the symptoms and the things we often call psychosocial factors, such as loss of skills, the loss of family members, as mentioned earlier in a talk, change the status of the individual in the community, disappearing from a job market, disappearing into a new social environment, and also the strength of the social support network. These are all vital aspects of each person's life. Another factor is that many elderly ones eat and have had to consume a substantial amount of drugs. It may have an effect and may in some cases bring forward and encourage a depressed mind that may develop in a worse way. As I killed the river, some surveys may suggest that up to 13% of depressed patients have signs and symptoms and symptoms that we can call depressed mood. That is good news, for it is easy to work with these factors. We have good medicine, and looking to professional people can produce remarkable results. A large proportion of this group can also simply improve their position and feeling that they are changing their lifestyle, their health, their exercise, and their training. These factors are emphasized worldwide to improve general well - being. This attitude is also being maintained by a handsome country, one of the leading members of this department, Janus Guðlaugsson, doctor of sports and health. He says that studies suggest that active life - style and variety of training have a consistent measure of health - related benefits and that training may also reduce some of the risk factors related to older age, which are true of depression. A respectable president. As I entered the beginning, the number of elderly people will increase greatly in the coming decades in Iceland. Therefore, it is important to work progressively on the welfare issues in this area, aimed at maintaining health instead of treating disease only. This is a much less expensive and more efficient approach to improving human health. This is the assessment of countless experts from all over the world. In recent analyses, British scientists have claimed that each euro, or each euro, according to an investment in health - related prophylaxis is reversible 14-fold. So there is reason to promote the affairs of these older cities, the future. This group will grow into fish in the next few decades. To promote this issue, we, three members of the General Assembly, have submitted just as many judicial proposals. These are Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Ásmundur Friðriksson, still signed. It is a church arrangement that is subject to all the concerns of the elderly. We hope that in connection with the discussion that will be followed by the contributions, we will be able to draw out information on this truly needed group of subjects. These suggestions that we have proposed are for the discontinuation of age-related retirement rules, for the treatment of aging prejudices and for evaluation of health-related prevention of older people. There are other things that a legislature needs to consider, an elderly citizen's quarters, how we make it possible for them to live in our own homes as far as possible, as we have talked about for decades. We may not have been able to do much more than take the discussion. We need to assume how we, who are growing up and growing elderly, can have our own long - term life. We take pride in this and promise to build more and more nursing homes. In that we will no longer have an advantage. That's not what older people like, we won't necessarily think of ourselves when we get to this place. We want an alternative, as well as a growing proportion of older citizens, to build agencies for the work we've done over the decades. A respectable president. With these words I have finished speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u88	A respectable president. I give the Commission a proposal for interpretation of information on tissue quality and review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services. The committee has discussed the matter and received a meeting of Emil Thoroddsenur and Stefán Vilbergsson from Iceland's Quantum Coalition, Arnór Víkingsson and Baldursdóttir from Sigrún, a center of biography and related diseases and the Auður of Ólafsdóttir, Jón Jónsson and Óskar Reykdalsson from the health care of the capital area. News came from the Society of physical therapists, the health care of the capital area, the Generous Alliance, Sigrún Baldursdóttir, and Þrupt. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that a health minister be assigned to employ education for the general public in terms of histology and has a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services. The Committee reviewed that the existing treatment institutions served largely only those with mismanagement at a severe stage and had little or no ability to work. Long - term waiting lists would have to be more effective in terms of past - stage service in order to counteract physical pain, impaired ability, and the often stressful effects of the disease. It was then concluded that there would be a need for emphasis on the need to respond earlier and to provide people with a little more extensive tissue access to appropriate services. In this connection, it was noted that it was easier to control the disease in the early stages, to treat was simpler, and to produce better results. A closer analysis of the disease and a higher level of education and prevention, as well as knowledge within the health care system, can be done effectively in preventing pain and incorruption. The basic treatment of hirsutism should be based on education, mental behavioural treatment, and appropriater than regular practice. In most cases, such treatment would improve in the early stages. In view of the above, it is important that the committee be emphasised on promoting health care in the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. This can be done and more often will prevent the disease from getting severe. Follow-up can also make sure that the individual remains active. According to the Health Care Center of the capital area, health care is now in place to develop and treat basic treatments with doctors, psychologists, and motion - control professionals. In addition, it would be considered to introduce international screening and assessment lists that would have yielded fine results in the diagnosis of tissue arthritis. The committee agrees on the importance of this work, so it directed to the health - care minister to put into practice that basic services will become more available within the medical facility. Under the heading, write why. The members of the welfare committee, Chairman Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristoffsdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrölnadótir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halldóra Mogensen and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdo. With reference to the above, the Committee suggests that the Council's Reunion proposal will remain unconvinced. A respectable president. I made this interpretation proposal this year, which has been moved back this year, and because of the need that after studying the matter, I felt that it was necessary to put my arms around this group and try to improve his feelings and to put him back into the labour market. The number of individuals evaluated for disability has increased year by year. The rate of disability estimated 75% increased by 3.9% between 2016 and 2017. There are a number of reasons why individuals are desperate. However, one disease is more common in this country than in many foreign countries, in response to my request to the health minister in the last winter, which is perspiration. Diagnosis was considered to be a contributing factor of 75% disability in 14% of all micro-evaluable women. Microgastric patients are often caused by synergistic factors of tissue arthritis, other musculoskeletal disorders, and psychiatric disorders. In some cases, biopsies have been reported to afflict 2◯13% of people at any given time. It is more common in women than in men; there are three or four women against one male. There are no overall data on the number of individuals diagnosed in this country, but in a 1998 study, the prevalence of tissue flares was 5.6% among subjects and older than 18 years of age, the majority of the most commonly occurring lesions are in the range of 11.74%. Gingoma is usually a chronic disease that is not cured, and as a result, the number of patients with increasing age is increasing. No literature reports have been published on the success of implantation therapy in Iceland. For a four year period, tissue arthritis centre has combined data on the success of the rehabilitation process in 2011-2015. The results were published in a 2014 Medical Insurance report and recently ended with the Sigríður Björnsdóttir's master essay in psychiatry at the University of Reykjavík. The results demonstrate a meaningful, significant improvement after rehabilitation in the overall patient status, performance and quality of life. The results also show that pain, fatigue, mental well - being, and stress symptoms are significantly improved after rehabilitation. It is intriguing to wonder why there are much more people in this region who suffer from this severe illness. This is a long-term disease. Maybe it's because of the simple fact that it's not as well replaced by this group of people here, so patients get even worse, and then more people will ship that group. A respectable president. I have proposed this body of interpretation proposal to hide a health minister's knowledge of tissue and to have a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services with the objective of strengthening the analysis procedure and can offer holistic treatment based on the results of recent studies. The health - care system needs to listen and listen to this silent disease and recognize it as a major factor in the loss of an all - age labour market and is isolated from the pain - related disease that renders the individual inactive, both at the job market and as a member of the community. When I was studying the disease and talking to individuals and those treating it, a major part of the education that really matters is the lack of prejudice against the disease. It is a kind of garbage chest that has been thrown into which fingers cannot be attached. Teaching is important, and this is a major part of the medical profession that is involved in reducing prejudice against this group, and it may include good treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u89	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of a bill to legalize the laws of surgeons and public health, with subsequent changes. Hv. The welfare committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by visitors, as well as the hearsay received from the position of surgeon and senior citizen in and around Reykjavík. This bill, which ignores, suggests that the surgeon's office will be permitted to provide information on the patient's names, identification numbers and certain personal identity characteristics to the report on brain failure. The surgeon general has a 2nd grade. Section 8. legal on surgeons and public health authority to keep ten personal medical records, including about cardiovascular diseases, neurological disorders and oncology registry. The committee reviewed the extent of brain failure as being less than the diseases and diseases listed there. The need to keep a record of cerebral disease was agreed with the reviewers and visitors who attended the meeting of the Committee. In particular, the importance of such files was shown in terms of planned and research. It was also found that it was unfortunate to consult foreign figures in a projection where the scope and composition of this health problem could not be determined as in Iceland as in other countries. For this point, I speak out of some experience, for in my former profession, I have had quite a few patients with this syndrome or this diagnosis. The statistics and feelings of the disease are not exactly the same in Iceland as those in many foreign lands. The design of the healthcare professional groups in these patients is also different. Thus, in the United States, it is common to develop neuroscientists and psychiatrists who have brain malfunction, which is to prevent formation in Iceland. Here, these clients are primarily family doctors and gerontologists. In its review, the surgeon general noted that the financial cost of the database is derived, as well as from its operations as it is understood. Therefore, it would be necessary to recognize the costs so that the Index could provide the cost of the target. However, it was observed that models could be drawn from comparable databases from other Northern countries to form Sweden, which might be useful to the establishment of a database in this country. Also, the experience available from the surgeon general's office due to the implementation of recent projects and the building of other databases would be useful to the project. The Commission claims that with the bill it is not obligatory to the surgeon's office to attack a brain disease database, but it is suggested that the office has the necessary authority to perform personal information in such a database. Although it is normal for the office to be granted by law, it emphasizes the need for government officials to provide financial support so that the file can be built and fired. According to the above, the committee suggests that the matter will be passed on and under some form of writing. Councilmen Helga Helgadóttir Helgidótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Inn Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Halldóra Mogensen and Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir. I want the end, Mr. President, thank you. Committee for work on this matter. As I mentioned at the outset, this case does not give much weight to itself, but by making this decision, we actually have the means to have access to much better information about a disease that is likely to be affected by 3,000 to4,000 Icelanders at any given time, even by a larger group, and we can better identify what resources we should take, how we should adjust our resources, etc. Sadly, as the nation's age grows, it is likely to increase in the number of people who develop encephalopathy, and the requirement is still greater that the resources available then become more efficient and more objective for each group and a subset of these diseases. That's why it's so important that things go on, but thank you so much to me. Committees for the job and thanks for the support the case has been shown at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u90	A respectable president. Hv. The 1st transporterman of this bill probably met the nail with a glow when he said that this bill was not being a great gesture. A mild temper is now a beauty. In 1st. The bill says: We're 2nd. Section 8. The law will add new numbers, as follows: Brain failure registry. This is where the change is going. This is a big change. It also contains messages, and it may help us to understand where we are in registration of various aspects of health care. That's what's important. I support the whole mind of this bill. The material focuses on a group of people suffering from a difficult disease, a group of patients who require much care, both caregivers and health care. It is important that we have detailed information on the scope of this subject as well as other health - care subjects. In order to be a meaningful and successful service to these individuals, it is important that the correct diagnosis of the individual's problem be confirmed on time. In the case of congestive heart failure, this may be a delicate, demanding step. In 2015 the number of dementias in Iceland was carefully evaluated, and the result was about 3,500, much lower than the number of AD Europe organizations in 2012. The difference may be that the United States is younger than most European countries, but that, of course, will change. In a report of the good bill as a night. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson introduces us earlier, and he considers this to be so that the total number of brain failures in Iceland might be between 4,000 and 5,000. This is not certain, since there is no targeted registration and there is no consistent procedure in the medical system in this regard. According to the 2007 Treaty for surgeons and public health, the office has the authority to keep ten designated medical records of personal identity, as noted by a flier earlier, but at the values of the law, 2007, it was in fact already operating or preparing seven very important files. The intention was to add three, i.e. a history of cardiovascular disease, neurological disorders and diabetes mellitus. This is stated in the review of the office to the welfare committee, as well as the fact that these files have not yet been set up because no money has been spent on the project. This, of course, is a disgrace, and it is not surprising that our health system is aimless or that we get a little flight into planning the system, where we should put our emphasis, what is the main focus, and what additional matters are involved. We need to work hard and have a much more stable area when we set ground lines. This is important, for these are enormous cost - making routes that we are going to end a costly subject and we must be selective in our work. There is no list of brain failures or plans to establish such a file, although the degree of cerebral dysfunction is least less than the diseases listed in the registry, as noted at the end of the year. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson earlier. Less than half of the individuals we are dealing with, individuals who suffer from a mental illness, enjoy a very expensive public service, i.e. 24-hour nursing care. At that rate, however, we have no certainty, and the reason is unremarkable. There is no record of brain failure; there is no evidence that there is any reason to keep the patient population in Iceland, which includes even 4,000 individuals, a group requiring special and costly services and support. A respectable president. An official in charge of welfare committees points out that the establishment of a registration system for the incidence of brain failure and the cost of maintaining and operating such a database is a significant budget. However, the members of the Committee of Health Services that we have now heard are noted to support the experience of our neighbors, Norway, or Sweden, who have established a database of this kind that may be useful in our case here. In addition, a question mark can be set in the priority of the office, which should monitor health care, quality and monitoring health care, setting priorities for these items. Worldwide, a group of cases of cerebral dysfunction has become ever more attentionful, knowing that the problem is growing and growing. There aren't many years, three, four, maybe five, since this group of paintings received the legitimate coverage of the region. That's fine. In the ensuing bill for the change in national health laws of the 21st century, there is a small article after Þórðardóttir, a specialist in aging medicine, which suggests that the alzheimer's disease is an epidemic of the 21st century, that this is an extremely common problem in older age, and that alzheimer's disease is a cause of 60-60% brain failure. Of course, there are other categories of brain failure, but just the alzheim is the disease, for we may be most concerned about this disease. A number of brain failures may be put under that kind of hat. The Steinunn, in its own article, notes that it is estimated that even the number of people suffering from the alzheimer's disease doubles in about two ways. Every 20 years, in the United States, 5.7 million individuals are diagnosed with alzheimer's disease that is grossly equivalent to 5,700 Icelanders. That's the line you're looking at. If we take the direct health costs there for the treatment and care of individuals with congestive heart failure as assessed in 2017 and the indirect costs for management and management in Iceland would be direct and indirect costs for the treatment and management of individuals with brain failure in this country at least $50 billion annually. As we know, the truth from the west of America is not absolute, and many of the nonsense, including In the health system, which is probably the most expensive thing in the world, but with the best results, the United States is still very professional. Let's not transfer these numbers directly, but even if there were only 10% of this amount we're talking about, or 5%, that's a lot of money. This will increase over the next 20 years, as we have seen, and we should be prepared. We can be. The cost is greater than that of cancer and heart disease combined. It's growing for two reasons. The number of people with congestive heart failure is increasing and services are becoming more expensive to each individual. On the contrary, the situation here exists as elsewhere, and there is no way to predict the end of this trend, for it becomes faster with large rivers growing and growing old, years of postwar years. A respectable president. This is vital, and it is underestimated to think more about serving those at home, especially in later stages of the disease, when there is more to care. What an important part of this work is the support we have for our family! This is not an individual's illness, a disease that affects the whole family, a marriage mate, children, and grandchildren. All participants are often involved in a tragic and difficult process. We have much to do in these matters. We have a very powerful organization in Iceland, this is a powerful field of research in many parts of the world, and people place great emphasis on supporting families. The adjustment of the law on this subject will contribute to the reporting of specificity. It is very important that early diagnosis be made, which, of course, helps families to cope with challenging challenges. At the 146th Parliament, a accord agreed to the synopsis of the proposal that there would be a complete relative policy in the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure. It is urgent to have a complete policy, to have it all in place, to have a perspective on the group, a policy of service, a record of the disease, scientific work, plans, needs, and education, and support to those who are mentally ill and their partners. Most Western countries have advanced policy in the affairs of this patient group and all European countries except one small nation, Iceland. This policy has not yet been introduced to the high Council. We know it's in the dough, it's being worked on, and of course we hope that it will succeed and finish as soon as possible and be introduced to us. The projection is that this policy will be in line with the emphasis of our modern society, being progressive, and closely treated with stakeholders, calling for trends that we see all around us. A respectable president. For progressive improvements in this category, reliable information on the scope of the project needs to be provided. We do not know this today, and this bill points to its improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u91	Mr. President. I recommend the members of the NTSB's committee. It is proper to state at the outset that the release of a reimbursement form presented in the Parliament has been called back. The Commission has discussed the subject and has been contacted by good guests, but reports have also been received from the National Association of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the Children's Association, BSRB, Iceland's Social Advisory Association, Iceland's Mental Health Association, U.S. National Law Enforcement Association, and the European Union of Iceland. It is also true in the beginning, Mr. President, to mention what I mentioned in my speech when it was presented to the subject. Um, that the case appeared late, and I think it's safe to say that the work of the Committee was somewhat shaped by it, and it can, in effect, be said that we would have liked to have had more time to complete this case. The bill suggests that the parent's right to birth code will be extended from nine months to 12 months and that the length will be performed in two stages, i.e. in 2020 and in 2021. As members of Congress are aware, the prolongation of the maternity of the womb is part of the current government policy and has actually been on the schedule of most political parties in Iceland, if not all, for a long time and obviously, as well. Congress officials are aware of a major conflict in Icelandic labor movements. Thus, the progress of the bill at this time is partly linked to the biography agreements made last spring. In general, the comments on the subject were very positive, as well as the reviews involving government consultations in the controversies. However, it was noted by the Committee that in the birth / parental law it was not sufficiently accepted by single parents who could be different, the right of each parent unsolvable. The goal of the law would be to provide a child with a parent. In situations where only one parent is interested in making use of his/her/her/her birth leave, the child could not enjoy association that the law is intended to secure. Then it was noted that there would also be a view of equality, for instance, when single parents who alone care for their child's training need to be removed from a workforce for longer than established laws allow to care for the newborn child. The Commission agrees with these views, but it also points out that already a committee has been established in relation to the overall review of the law and the greater part of the welfare committees, it is strongly felt that at the work of the committee, the suggestions for which the diversity of families will be addressed and will continue to be in Icelandic society. The work of the Committee also showed, within the Committee, as well as in conversation with guests, a wide range of opinions as to the best way to arrange for birthworm exchange between parents. In some reviews it was best to define all the rights, it was completely subjugated, and then there was a view to the other wing, that there would be no need to define any part of the court. This debate will be made up to some extent in a committee of total legal reviews. In effect, the bill as it is presented may result in a sort of salmonism in what is best for it, but it does not in itself give the mention of an overall review to the same conclusion. There are, as I mentioned earlier, many views. The committee had concluded that with the result of a change in the motion, an acceptable landing had arrived and was able to cope with it. But I suggest, Mr. President, as I have mentioned earlier, that the adjustment of the proposals will be called back, the case will return to the Committee between 2 and 3. to allow the Commission to take at least one more spin in what way the switch will be. However, it is clear that by 2020 the exchange will be what has been called four, two, i.e. Four months defined each parent and two months for provision based on parental judgment. In this respect, both parents'rights increase compared to those of the current law from three months to four months, but the time for this so - called common right is reduced. However, the Commission, or I believe that it is best - it may not be appropriate to quote the committee here - rather than write it into the law at this stage permanently in which the exchange will be better in 2021, it may be concluded that the decision of the Review Committee will be put to the foundation when a minister submits a bill there. Nevertheless, as shown in the bill, we will be assured that at this point we have a 12-month right to delivery oralfs. However, we do not make a final decision on the part of the transition, so it is important to get the case through between the 2nd and the 3rd. so that the committee has room for a change in my viewpoint. I want to finally thank you. A committee for a good job and a good discussion. How happy we are that the Allied Council is deciding to extend the right to the birthworm! That's in my mind a big deal and probably one of the biggest cases that have been presented in this terms, at least As for the rights of the citizens, and a great deal of joy to participate in that work and to participate in the end of a matter, so that the parents and children in Iceland have the right to 12 months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u92	Mr. President. There were a number of correct statements. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son here just a few minutes ago about the tactics that have taken place on this bill to legalize the adjustment of the law on birth and parentorof that we all must celebrate, i.e. Create the bill, its purpose, its goals. But I can't help coming up here simply because I'm having a very difficult time with the tactics offered by the Allied Parliament. The above - mentioned figures are read, now presented as an opinion of more parts, and a new proposal made by members of a committee party is called back here in 2nd. ... and we're on the final days of the assembly for Christmas break and we're expecting more meetings to be on the welfare committee. These adjustments were done quickly to the committee, but obviously some of the more careful adjustments were made. Now that they've been called back, and sometime in the next 24 hours, we should start working this up again. I know it doesn't sound good, but it's like this. The bill is about prolongation of maternity and parent vacations. It took a quick moment of consultation. Entering the Generalis on November 26th. and it was completely morning clear that they would not receive proper political treatment. I think it's totally pathetic, Mr. President, to offer that we practice this kind of work. It's just for some mess. Today, several stakeholders have contacted the right, left, either to describe satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the changes that came from the greater part. It just shows you what you're talking about. The welfare committee has not been given the opportunity to work this case, and I spoke about it here in 1st. I'm sorry, but this is not the only case we received from the highest level. Secretary of society and children's affairs, where there's no time. The welfare committee is to take care of things in such a hurry. Now, comments from sources say, "Why didn't we get to appear before the committee? " Why don't we get to come? Aren't you chairman? Why won't this group come? Why are we not called in to express our views on the changes they are making? Why is the adjustment now being made? There is no question about it because no work has been done. We're the lawgiver, and I don't get tired of arguing about it here at the Senate Hall that this practice, with the permission of the president of the council, is a pain in the ass. The President of the Parliament has to send a clear message to a government minister because it is because of what this is going to cost a fortune. There were 28 reviews in their consultations, where people were exchangeing opinions or sending in their opinions about exchange of maternity leaves. Hv. The welfare committee could not handle it, nothing. There were ten comments. well - being committee at the short time given. Visitors began long before the session ended, and there was no time for calling in anyone who sent in a review. Therefore, we are now in a situation where a decision is made, due to a disagreement within the government's transition, to send in a change of ideas - and where are we now? I just want the Senate to realize this situation because it's unacceptable to put us in this situation. Instead of being able to stand here and rejoice with all our heart, because we are extending our birth certificate, the government offers us this mess. I think it's incredibly sad. It's great to be extending our maternity, but it sucks at the height. The Minister of Social Affairs is on this case. It'll be interesting to keep working on this. I couldn't hear you. A member of the committee called the issue between 2 and 3rd. So I do now. I may have missed it, but I will now. The point is right. well - being committees who meet for the weekend or after the weekend to try to clean up after what has happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u93	President. I was going to give an angry talk about my work around this matter, but instead I take my heart to it. The head of the welfare committee, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, since this quick treatment has made it extremely difficult for us to examine e.g. reviews. It's not just the reviewers who get a short period of research and review, but they give us a brief time to review the reviews, and they also give us a brief period of time to call for evidence from the Ministry and study the evidence that comes. Everything around this quick treatment makes us, the legislature, very difficult to win the case properly, and that's what I'm worried about. What I may want to discuss most about this prolongation - which I truly celebrate - it's about time we lent the birthworm and need it very much - is this division and that we're going to be taking it in two ways. This summer, the highest power was set. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs together to make a full reexamination of maternity law, which is also very good, but the change is being made in two ways. I think it's necessary when we're going to a full check that's along with her how we're changing the vagina. I feel uncomfortable doing this in two ways. The other thing I'd like to say about this committee that has been put together for the summer. I'm just going to read, with the permission of the President, from the Council's announcement about her, which says, by permission of the President: The Agency will have the responsibility of revising the entire law and working on a bill, which will include the response of existing opinions from the World Council's emissary's emissary. At the same time, it is assumed that in the bill there will be an extension of the sum of parents' rights to maternity for 12 months to observation - I would like to make a provision for the sum of the total rights of parents for twelve months - ◯ due to children who were born to be adopted or taken into permanent embryos on January 1, 2021 or later. While this is in accordance with the government's policy of promoting the birthworm system, it is assumed that the length of the parents'right to birth would be limited. I'm not going to read the rest, but there's a box about the work that will take place on the committee. It simply speaks of the right parents. There is no mention of the right of children, and not just the right of children, but only in this committee of the workforce, representatives of the European Union and the Ministry of Economics. This is all the focus of the work that is taking place on this committee, and I am so worried about this, that in 2 g. The children's covenant, if I recall correctly, is spoken of as not to be partial between children. I would have counted, and it shows in the focus of the birthstorm, that the goal is to ensure that children are separated with parents. I'm concerned that the committee that is supposed to play the important role of a full review of this law is totally missing the advocates of children. Why is the agent of the children not a member of the Committee? Why is no one representing single parents? Why are the Committee not professionals for e.g. Children's Maturity - What Is the Best for Children? Who is holding that up in the Committee? If we look ahead to see that the exchange is to be fixed so that a parent gets a month's fast, and that the joint or flexible months are reduced, then we are holding on to the discrimination of children, i.e. children with one parent or children with two We can watch how we like things, but then we have to watch reality. Of course, in a perfect world, fathers would be as far off as mothers. But it's just not like that. Children of single parents or children who may have parents who have limited interest or the ability to participate in their upbringing and do not take their birthmarks, have much less time with their parents than children of two parents, and there we are in discriminate. These are views that I find very important to be discussed in the Committee work. I come up here and I'm glad we're extending the worm. But at the same time, I actually encourage a minister to review who is on this committee and to include more views there because otherwise I am concerned that the result or report coming from the Committee will be very one side and will have all the focus on the workforce's needs, on the equality struggle, which I am not trying to undermine in any way, the equality struggle is enormously important. But we must look to the best for the child too. It must not be lost, especially when it comes to maternity and guaranteeing the child's right to socialize with his parents and not taking a stand for children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u94	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator is eager to hear the talk and such reflections made clear today, and he has done so in the past. Senator, about the child's rights, because I think we need to watch that too. These are the views you would like to hear more from the Committee and a discussion with experts involved in this, to the labor movement, as well as to the representatives of Iceland's Psychological Association, which sent a review. Hv. A senator spoke of the emissary of children and the Fégagi of single parents, and I would like to mention them at the moment. A senator, e.g. This group, mental protection. What about the international community of women in Iceland? What about sides? What about groups in which there is a possibility that this exchange could be difficult and that the child's best interests need to be looked at first, since it could be some kind of barrier so that the child's right to birth would be impaired? I have noted several times that when the other parent is a parent, governments also make a decision to severely impair the right of a baby when the other parent is a parent, e.g. not granted permission to reside in the country. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to ask you what. A senator only into these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u95	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There is also the Fég of single - parent families, and I would have wanted to give them a review. Perhaps she would have been here if we had been working this case for a while, and I would have also wanted more guests, e.g. came like a whisk. A senator mentioned a review from Iceland's Mental Health Association. It's a great review, and it says, with President's permission: ▪ The change that is suggested by this bill is to provide parents, not children, just to get together, despite the fact that the goal of the laws quoted earlier made it clear that the goal is to ensure a child's right to a gathering. This is very important, and it is a viewpoint that we were not allowed to hear on the committee because there is an overwhelming urgency in this matter. Rightly, this bill is about extending the orcs, but there's been some transition, and it's done before we get the results from a committee that's about to win the case. In that committee, I find that the emphasis is not on the child's rights but on much more the rights of the parents. It makes you wonder what the outcome will be and whether it is in harmony with the purpose of the law. I find that shocking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much. That's exactly what it is with the groups that were unable to pass a review in this case because the deadline is very short. Then I'd like to tell you what. A member of the Committee, also a member of the Committee, requested that I especially get reviews from students, from the Society of Single Parents, from the Society of Parents Equalities, from the Association of Women of Foreign descent, from sides of sides, and from more members of society, but we received the answers that it was not time, and it was, naturally, no time to call this party for the committee. Of course, that's the situation. Then you wonder, " Is this a decision to make? ' In order to clarify this, the committee discussed whether these three components should be equal. Some people don't want a divorce, some want it to end up six months and six months. At any rate, there must be talk about it. As it is, there are certain children who have less time. And it's not as if it's some system that's taking over. It is not as if in infancy all, including those with possibly little materially, are simply able to use them because they are very expensive. Somehow, we're in total chaos that can most impact on children who are less wealthy parents. At least we're going to have to finish the discussion, and I'm afraid we're not going to get here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u97	President. A wide variety of viewpoints is important. The reason I talk about single - parent families is that I am a single parent. At the time, I had to stretch my maternity to nine months, I got only six, and then my wages were very low, by stretching it over to nine months. Actually, I couldn't have done this if it wasn't for me that I have a mom who has a pretty large apartment I could live in. There's not a lot of people out there, and there's very little thought about it, what happens to parents who can't even extend their birthmark. What will happen to them children? They only get much less time with their parents. With the knowledge we have today, about how important this time is in the child's development cycle, we should make decisions as to how maternity is divided from that data, based on the knowledge we have of what is best for the child. I don't think we're doing it here. I feel like we're a little bit of a decision-making based on what's best for the job market and we try to make sure that fathers get their kids off with their baby, which, of course, is really important. But if the goal was for children to get as much together with their fathers as with mothers, we might be considering the question, Why don't we give both sides birthworm at the same time? It is enormously costly, it would cost society a lot of money, but it would achieve these goals too, if families were to be together, both fathers and mothers with the baby, for some time. I think we have to face the fact that flexibility is important because family patterns are so exorbitant, what each family needs. Making a decision as to what is best for families is something we cannot provide for, and we cannot make a decision for people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we want a father to have more share in raising his children or to take a longer birth certificate, all we need to do is raise our payments on a maternity vacation. [[The president calls.]] I think that's a good way to get more men to take a birthworm. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u98	A respectable president. I'd like to start by mentioning, so they say in this discussion, how great the birthworm system in Iceland is. Despite all its limitations and all that you can do, it was such a wonderful step that some decades ago it was under way to establish this system. It has been improved - perhaps it is not possible to say that one of the best things in the world has been between the steps - in the stream of time. Here we are a little bit involved in the exchange between parents. That's one of the ways Iceland's parents has been doing things differently than going along and going along, and it looks like an earmark that a large part of their mother's birth certificate and then a pot that is handed between them. This step was taken 20 years ago, as another 20 years ago had been a selective birthmark for fathers who had never been used. No father would take his birthplace until the General Assembly in this hall decided that if fathers didn't take their months, they would just die dead. You see, it is sometimes so boring to face the fact that it is not just the job market that is sensored but also the working force in close relationships and in the homes. Raising children is an enormous amount of sex. If no frame were placed in this hall around the birthworm system, which I'd like to say is driving fathers to take their holiday, they wouldn't do it, unfortunately, in spite of their good will. Why are we doing this? We can also sometimes ask ourselves that question. The Act of the Law says that they are meant to provide a child with both parents and intended to allow both men and women to coexist with family and professional life. The second point is achieved by the fact that mothers and fathers are about as long outside the work market as they are at each delivery, since that absence, of course, affects acquired rights, and it mismanages the amount of pay available in society even more if women are much longer from work than men because of the birth of children. Then there's the first goal to ensure a child is to be separated from both parents, which I would like to say is actually an old signal that the economy is not a new phenomenon in this room. This is a law that is set in place because people's happiness is increased simply by taking an active part in training their children, whether they are fathers or mothers. Children's interests are best cared for by ensuring a close relationship with both parents. Thus, family members develop a bond that will last forever. One of the main strengths of the birthworm system in this country is the strong link that exists between this and the labor movement. It is funded by a proportion of pay insurance costs, which means that one of the strongest government funds is running fairly calm seas over the years. However, it is possible to become, with regard to certain groups, one of the weaknesses of the system as well. As we have seen in the modern discussion, there are groups that are not under the labor movement's protection, which the system hasn't really managed properly. Alternatively, e.g. names are people who study, people who are out of work markets, people who have just moved to the country, and who have not earned the rights that people earn in a job market. They all find birth strength too low for the first few months of their child's life to be free of anxiety. Then there's what happened. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen mentioned, a traditional family pattern, a family, for example, where a father does not walk with a child. The single mother does not have the same protection within the system as a single mother conceived by ART. There are a number of such details that need to be addressed and that have become more and more evident in recent years and are, of course, the reason why a total review of the law - is because an overall review is needed. The bill before the council is not about these details, so to speak, but about the largest lines, the total age of birthworm. What a joy it is that at last the birthworm will be extended to 12 months! It's a long time, so you use the mildest wording, when we're standing here in this hall seven years after the birthorlof was extended to 12 months. That extension was then replaced a year later by the 2013 election government. But sometimes good things happen slowly. It is of interest, as we have considered, that the Council decided in 2012 that the 12 months would be divided to make a parent five months apart and that two months would be delivered. The same conclusion is expressed in 2016 by a group on a future policy in maternity policy. The five, five, two, split results. And the same conclusion holds the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs made it. But now we wait to see who will be with the welfare committee in the next few days. This is something that needs to be considered, for this is not necessarily obvious. The labor movement suggests that this is divided by a knife balance for six months before the parent and no part are handed over, as there is no debate about the rights of a labour market to be handed in part. Others want to add up the same pot, but I always get a little nervous because the numbers show us what happens. Then we're creating more error in the system. Today, nine months of maternity is divided, allowing parents to take three months each and to be able to make a three - month switch. The fact is that well over 90% of mothers take the same months together, so in fact, we have six, three systems today, if we mined. In fact, we don't even have six, three systems because mothers, and that's because of the gender mismatch that exists in the community, taking its six months, stretching them over to nine months, knitting their summer vacations and perhaps having some orloft inside and thus reaching this six-month orloft for perhaps a year, which is almost what is enough to jump over to the daycare of daily or baby school, which is the other side of this coin that must be fixed and well marked the main in this three-year list of careers, another long-term step to take. That is why I believe that the rapidly published landing on how to divide 12 months between parents five, two who became results at the Assembly Hall of 2012, which was the result of a 2016 task force and the results of a minister who proposed a bill this fall, would be perhaps the best way to divide the 12 months. As a result of my attitude, I was impressed when I saw a change in the welfare committee arrangement that increased the joint pot and therefore proposed a change in the suggestions but rejoiced that it should now be viewed more closely within the welfare committee and hope that there is a time to do so properly during the few days that we have left. Mr. President. To make it a formal point, I consider the adjustment I made to the case this morning to fall for myself, where the proposal for the greater part of the welfare committee was withdrawn. I wish the Commission all the best for the work that lies ahead and hope that the results will be very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I felt compelled to come up because of words. The senator that the exchange as it has been, and as it is thought, is the best because with it fathers are rather compelled to take the birthlord. Of course, I am very well attached to the fact that both parents take maternity code. I just want to tell you right here in a pit, that it's the best situation we have that both parents take birthlolof, take a birthworm, and divide it even between themselves. Studies show that it is best for the child to be connected with both parents and the best for the parents to connect with the child. It deepens any emotional attachment to the child. That's what we're here to discuss about the traditional family. As lawgiver, we need to see how we can best guarantee the child's best interests in the absence of both parents. Whatever the case, there is only one parent at times. It is very bad when the lawgiver makes such a case without discussion and does not consider that a child will get enough time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u100	A respectable president. President's starting to split the clock evenly. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] I want to thank you. A senator for mentioning this because I would have wanted to mention it in my speech earlier. There's some flexibility in the system that's not in today. Some children only have one parent, that's right. However, some children who have one parent have more right than other children who only have one parent, depending on how their children come into existence. I mentioned babies conceived with assisted reproductive techniques. The single parent enjoys more justice than the single parent who has a child with someone who does not support it. That flexibility is beyond the intervention of a short bill that is about extending the birthworm. It's a general change that somehow covers the whole system. But what's wrong. A senator mentions something that I think the committee of the global restructuring of the system must take into account a thorough view. I'll fall, for example. thinking that it could be solved simply by some government, some institution that could measure the circumstances of the family, the circumstances of the children, so as to determine if a certain situation could arise in some article that would exist in the future of a single parent's right to birth code. It's the flexibility I think it should be in the law. But I also think it's a flexibility that we don't put in them right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his answer. Of course, not everyone is in a position where the other parent does not function. Sometimes it's just a impossible thing to do. I take my whole mind to the idea of what you're thinking. A senator claims that there will be some kind of government that would hold out the impossible. It should be a principle that both parents take birthworm because it is for the child, and we do not want to go back when one parent takes the whole litter and the other parent comes home at night. Somehow it's not where we want to go. But I don't agree. A member of Parliament when it comes to the inability of a Council Committee to make changes in this situation. The Parliament's constant committees often make many changes in the law, even on their own initiatives, and we're doing such cases here just today and yesterday and after the weekend. Having a good discussion of this is good when dealing with such issues. The birthworm is now being extended. After years of age, children are born in this situation, and of course we should use every opportunity to do so. If it weren't for the biographies deal in April until the end of November, we would have brought the case into the council. can do so. If we had received this case into our home in August or September, when the council started working in the fall, we could have earned it for the 2020 children. Sadly, though, the government did not offer us the offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u102	A respectable president. Yes, I wholeheartedly agree with the senator that this matter had to come much earlier to the council. This is a very small and specific case that I would have liked to see light in September or October so that a committee would have more and better coverage. When I say that there is no significant change in how a child's position is handled where it's impossible for one parent to take a birthorlof, I just mean it's strictly practitional. I had imagined that a welfare committee might not control the way I think, at least at first glance, that it could be a little complicated in the few days of Christmas license because it's a case that we all want to finish before the New Year's Eve. But where it is. A senator is the head of a welfare committee, and I trust her to appreciate it better than I, and they view it as natural on a welfare committee when she meets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u103	Mr. President. I can't resist the temptation to take the word here only, even if only, if I have observed correctly, that this would lead to a loss of these things at the General Assembly on birthworm of more men than women, or at least as many people who participated in the discussion and were a few milestones, for at times, women's personal affairs were too much to be viewed as the case in the past. I welcome this bill very much. I am a great sponsor for the system taken up at the time, of course, set out in extremely small steps, that fathers should get right and then have their own right to participate in maternity. I could have been able to talk about duty in these matters, that it was a parental duty. I think it's the right thing to remember that I became the first father in the Council to take the birthplace. That was when my youngest child had come into the world, 1998, and it was all two weeks long. That's the way it was. What a memorable and precious two weeks that was, even though they were not more than that! I've been watching this all along. It was fun being an Icelander, e.g. During the years up from the turn of the century, when this system of our own independent rights of fathers attracted much attention and cleared the way elsewhere in the North countries. At that time, it was really fun to be a general member of the Icelanders and to be proud to share in teaching neighboring nations about this arrangement. But then, unfortunately, we began to fall behind, and it's just as well. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's statement it's far beyond the time of the end, at least. This prolongation to 12 months. For various reasons, I'm not going to go out on it for seven years. You see, in 2012 it was a solid agreement, at least in 2012. in the existing government and supported by others, we should, of course, use a better country in front of us to make this one of the priorities, to reexamine the Icelandic welfare system and extend the birthworm. But it's better late than never. I don't think people should lose sight of the importance of this system of equality as soon as it is an important matter of justice, an important social issue, that this is in a way that the maternity rights are divided between parents and that it is not delivered to a minor degree. To a minor extent, both parents should be present because the bite of the device begins to shrink for reasons that were well considered in the last talk. It has to do with the other thing again, that it is intervening with sex pay and the fact that, unfortunately, it is too often the fathers who are better paid than the mothers. It's quite simply that it works at the gender court otherwise in the labour market and tends to be a distraction for young women of childbearing age in two main ways, I think. On the one hand, they may be more difficult to progress in, and on the other hand, they may not seem to be quite as reliable as a work force. That, of course, was the way it was back then. You just have to talk human language about those things. For young women, the atmosphere was at least totally blocked. in times of society, when employers on a large scale did not manage to control a man, because they would just always be pregnant, it would be impossible to do so. That's the way old thinking was. Of course, we have come a long way. I think the attitude is different. In this respect, it may not be as much of a concern as it once was. But the rest is there. Then I would like to include in this context, as well as, of course, other factors related to how the young family is finished, that this is an extremely important national interest issue that has not been given the importance of the discussion on the grounds to which it should be done because, of course, this is part of making women's general employment involvement possible. We may think today she's a self - esteem thing, but she wasn't even one. And, of course, the more successful children have been in this regard, making it easier for them to bring up their children and to provide them with a good environment as well as to be active in a workforce, the greater the growth of both sexes. It has enormous national advantages. It is not difficult to read together, if we look back 50 or 70 years, that much of Iceland's increase in prosperity has to do with women's growing employment involvement. It is simply a matter of growing in value. We use all the human resources in place of the fact that some countries still have a long way to this point, since women's employment parties are tragically low, and it is certainly sad in all respects. I just want to think about, I hope that I won't help anyone by the fact that I don't agree entirely or that I don't fully understand the setting when they want to separate and talk about parental rights in this child's relationship and rights. I'm not exactly there because in my mind it's completely interwoven. Absolutely. Of course, the child's rights first turn to having as favorable conditions, good care, and good parenting as possible. But it is also part of the child's right to get together with both parents. It doesn't matter whether we're getting closer to the situation, so to speak: Yes, the parents are the mothers. There is, in any case, one thing that is clear. Is the child's right, then, led by the right of the parents to take a baby's womb or the right parent being led out of the child's rights? It just doesn't matter to me. It's the same thing, and we're supposed to get it out of the holistic ideologies, as far as I'm concerned, it's basically two sides of the same coin. An important part of all of this is that your child will be reunited with both parents, provided that he is there. Then let me see what's only just been mentioned correctly, that it's not as simple as it was in the best world of all world, that a child should have both parents, I'd like to tell everyone if the family pattern had been redefined, so I just admit the radical that I could enjoy a more modern and radical definition of the family. It's a good thing you've been talking about the National Church when you say that. But that is not the case, and we certainly have a situation where only one parent is to be distributed. Of course, we do not want it to be at the expense of the parent and/or the child. However, it is easier said than done to unite these two so that things will go well. On the one hand, to avoid losing the advantage of the system that balances the sexual situation in the job market and guarantees the child's right to get to know both parents and somehow trying to find ways to avoid the expense of situations that are truly there where only one parent is to distribute. How, then, do humans try to approach it? Of course, it is so that the law contains an exception, of course, and it is possible for one parent to take it more when obvious reasons arise, when one parent is left when the birth of a child, or when one parent is imprisoned, or something like that. If so, it is not too difficult to say yes, of course it will be taken into consideration. The problem is more difficult when the reasons are more complex, when some social or health conditions make it very low or may not be possible for one parent to take part of the hysteria. But there is. This has been quite a struggle, and I think it would be all right for a welfare committee to have papers turned up and/or after incidents only a few of the experiences of those who were on the welfare committee probably three, four years ago and wrestled with this case. Then we went through the question: Is it possible to do something better than in current legislation? My answer is yes. Wriggle refers to a better control of these peripheral events with this in mind, to preserve the rights as possible in different and variable situations, even to some extent social, health conditions. But you have to do some real good. Such restrictions must be carefully and narrowly defined so that the other one should not be placed in the table. It's just that way. I tend to agree, and I heard it mentioned earlier, which was exactly our conclusion, without any effect there would be no change in the law at the time when we would sit over this on a welfare committee some time ago, that it would just have to arise to some party who could measure and after the events or to be counselling about the need to deal with such extremes. It would have to be, then, that if such complex situations made such a situation that special situations, after events, could apply to cross the line and make more use of the available rights, which would then pass through food and professional channels and after events, there would be someone who, for example, would be someone. would be able to assist the person who fosters the birthworm, and to care for the payments, to determine whether there is a basis for giving an exception. Of course, a person pauses in these areas and their social services. Of course, the big and powerful would be there because they perform many very related tasks, wouldn't they? However, this may have to be made differently. I'm glad there's going to be a crash together, and then look, and I know it's going on. But what we're talking about here is primarily this simple case that has to do with extending and tying the womb into law, and then it's finally at the end of its 12 - month period. I'd like to mention at the end of a second item that I've been interested in and spoke for. It is that the flexibility will be increased when it comes to the right to take the birthworm further up with the child's age. I believe that we should also take a very careful look at it, that some part of the hysteria can be stored and taken out in some amount, weeks at a time, or so. In my opinion, it should be up to at least The child's six - year - old may have a baby's birthmark for a week, a month, two weeks, and a new one, e.g. when a child has gone to high school or elementary school. That's how it is, for example. in Sweden, if I know that correctly, it was at least About two decades ago, when I knew the system there. And finally: Hopefully, this contribution of the state will be sufficient to put a considerable pressure on the communities to meet it by closing the hole so that this tragic day - care hole, which has been about a year or more, up to 15 months in some places, will only be shut down because it should not leave some awkward period for families while the child is between at least two years old. It's simply going to be a matter of putting up some plans that the countryside and after the events of the state, if you have to do something more, help shut this hole down and, of course, I'm not missing from an old fight that the school should be free to keep it. I remind you that government elections will be in 2022. Because still sitting here in the hall representatives of several classes, people did much more crazy than try to influence it through their connections and sort of put a good-looking pressure on their rural communities that this will become a big deal for the 2022 elections. Then this is done by the government, the maternity of 12 months. In my opinion, it should be one of the major projects the local community will take to promise its clients, its inhabitants, that they intend to oppose the State and close the care hole in the early years of the children's life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u104	Mr. President. At the end of this discussion, I want to thank you. Councilmen who have discussed this subject as well as members of the committee. well - being committees still present who have addressed the work being done there. Clearly, this has been shown in a matter of reason. Men and women are at odds with these factors, the birthworm as a labour market, and the birthworm as the rights of children. We have this connection in Iceland. We finance the system through the labour market with a share of the insurance bill. Like what? The members of the council know that we were now in charge of budgets and related them to changing the percentages of the insurance policy in the maternity home. The section of the insurance bill marked as the obituary was increased, just because we are taking steps to prolong the birthworm, and we have been taking steps in the direction of increasing the income limits in the birth home. I agree with the members of Congress who have expressed themselves, of course, that we need to continue in the process of raising the income limits, as this will, along with the continuation of the obligation of both parents to take part, preferably large, of the birthmark, to continue to match the status of the sexes in the labour market. I agree with it. A senator and a chief. The president of the council came in here earlier that, of course, the rights and rights of families are very interwoven, naturally in nature. And of course, as a legislatator, we must think of these interests as being together, and I agree with them. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson in what he introduced in the matter of how we should think about this, how we have really been covering the vital task of bringing messages into the community that child rearing is the role of all of us and, in the case of every individual child, the role of two parents most often. I agree with that. paritaprevir Steingrímur Jóhann Sigfússon that there are, of course, more people who can be there than just two parents. That's what we've been discussing here, by reason of it. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, Vala Helgadóttir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and Sigfússon Jóhann wonder about a number of important issues that are very important to the revision committee, which we have been calling air today. I trust and believe that representatives of this committee will closely observe the discussions that have been conducted here, or at least examine them. Take them into account. That's important. The mating spirit in the womb is also important. He is another factor that should be taken into account in the revision of the law, and I personally believe that the section on parentorof in the Law on birth is also important. Perhaps it should be the next step in strengthening Icelandic society as a family - oriented society to take in some way that the parentsores are not just at the expense of the ◯ families but rather look for ways to get the job market involved. Like what? Congress officials know that it is possible, up to eight years of age, to get parents'course, but it is not the obligation of employers to pay for it. As a result, it is probably less new than it would be. The care gap is the second thing I would like to mention at the end. Of course it has to be handled. It will probably be a common project of state and rural society to take part in that work, and I will be particularly impressed with what has been stated earlier that these matters are going to become a big deal in the district elections in 2022, and so it can be completed, at least in this respect, the important thought of making this bill a contribution, to making sure that we are taking a step toward improving the interests of Icelandic children and their families. The elongation of the womb is an extremely important step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-13-45.u105	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of road law, No. 80/2007, with subsequent changes, on extensions. The extension is an extension of return passage translocation from the road to the rural community. The bill is moved by an environment and transport committee and I recommend it on behalf of the Committee. The bill itself is very simple, only two articles. The Treaty replaces the year 2019 in temporary regulations of the law in the year 2020 and 2kret. Sounds that the law will be accepted when the bill is accepted. The report then discusses what this means, but in short, it can be explained that transpiration of so - called return roads that have been intended to move into the custody of rural communities in some parts of the country from the Road project for a year to come. In that year, it could use the road to maintain the roads, restore their condition where appropriate, and negotiate with the rural communities on how this transport is carried out. I'll review the brief report. In accordance with road law, the road structure will be handled and the highway maintenance intended for free traffic to the public. The rural population must oversee local roads, which are not considered highways according to Article 8. The law. When the road law was passed in 2007, negotiations between the Road Building and rurality began for the translocation of roads that were not classified as highways defined by the law to the local community. These talks were unsuccessful in 2007 and have not been successful, at least in all cases. Following the 2014 revision of road laws, a preliminary directive agreed that the Vega type is permitted to negotiate with the rural communities on translocation from road to rural society in the implementation of the law. According to the regulations, the road structure is permitted to take care of the maintenance of these roads until the end of 2019. The road and rural society have failed to negotiate the barrier, but the road structure has taken care of the barrier since the Law was passed, i.e. ..from 2007. The bill suggests that the amount of time the road will be extended according to the preliminary decision to negotiate with the rural communities on the translocation of roads from road to rural society. It is suggested that the duration of the release will be extended by one year, to the end of 2020. The Ministry, the Vega, the Union of rurality in the capital area, and the European Union are aimed at signing a declaration for the coming year's convention where the willingness of the party to complete this transfer that has been said to have been made since 2007. If the bill is legalized, the road structure will continue at this time, but at the end of 2020, the cost of destabilizing roads that took place when the law went into effect. I put this bill here and suggest that it be approved.
