ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u1	Borist has a letter from the 6th. Smoke. N., Steinunn - aged Árnadóttir, that she can't attend next week. So today, on Monday, May 13, we are taking the seat of the General Assembly as an assistant to her 1st, on the left-hand list, the Halla Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u2	The letter of Halla Gunnarsdóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken a seat before in the Council and must sign her pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u3	Halla Gunnarsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u4	As it was announced at our last meeting, president has come up with an order: ▪ The subscriber makes a suggestion, with reference to 1st mgr. 77st. Congress, the next meeting will be held as follows the 12 issues that are on the program for the meeting that was now set aside for the first one. The president asks: Do members of Congress agree that there is enough explanation for the suggestion, or should I read the entire program as if it were going to be? [[Take it up: That's enough.]] So it is a regular part of the program but that the first part will be removed from the program if the program would be agreed. Signed wishes that this proposal be in accordance with the quoted articles of engagement would be given votes at the Council. Under this letter, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson writes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u5	President. As the president mentioned, the program is suggested here to remain unscheduled, except that the first case, a so-called pregnancy break, falls off today's program. 3rd. on that matter, members of the council, both the administrative body and the administrative body, requested that they be held at ease. the welfare committee to review the matter with the objective of creating a greater agreement on this delicate matter. It wasn't done. A meeting was held, but it seemed that there was only a token. Since then, the discussion of this subject in society has developed extensively. That was the last thing I saw today. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A health minister claimed that this matter was actually derived from the Independence Party, which I do not know if it is a reasonable statement. In any case, there is good reason to postpone this matter by taking the lead in preserving the peace that has been established in this delicate business in Icelandic society to date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u6	A respectable president. I'll take my mind to propose what's happened. paritaprevir The winners of Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and in view of the fact that in particular the situation is growing, I would like us to put our arms around it and to be more happy than it is now. I don't think that this delicate group of subjects, like Article 4, 5. The bill, and so many other things I have with the bill to check. So I support this proposal with my whole mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u7	A respectable president. It's not true that these matters have been accepted so far. That's why the bill's out. I have every respect for people's feelings of sensitivity. However, there has been a lot of discussions, and it is obvious that at some point a decision has to be made. There has been no new act that requires more time. People disagree about this, and sometimes that's just the way it is. Still, we have to make the decision. I'm usually with the first to come up here and support people that they need more time to work things. We may belittle people's need of time. I don't think that's the case now. I think people want to vote on this matter later because they find it normal to vote on it, which I have full understanding and respect. But I don't think that's enough evidence to postpone a vote on the subject. That's why I vote against doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u8	A respectable president. We're discussing a very sensitive subject that affects many of the nerves of society. It is unfortunate for us to have disagreements, major differences, to resolve such issues. I have, and from my discussion with a number of other senators in the past few days, I believe that men can come together for a conclusion on this matter. I believe, a respectable president, worth a try. The case was referred to a committee after 2rd. and they were not dealt objectively with on the committee. It was released there without taking into account the observed visitors'requests and perhaps more would have been observed. The case was referred to the committee, confident that the committee would allow some room for discussion. [[The president calls.]] I restate on this suggestion because we are trying to make greater peace with him on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u9	A respectable president. This bill is about a lot of time, as we have seen in the discussions here and is in itself quite fine in many ways. But my knowledge has not become the discussion of all the major factors I believe would be desirable. I'll give you, for example, 5. As an example, I'll mention the bill's title. And there is more. The debate within and outside has nearly all been subjected to Article 4. The bill, which points to the dates of unidentified pregnancy discontinuation clearance, as mentioned in the bill. The case was discussed with 2nd. and was sent to sleep. The welfare committee for further reviews. For some reason, at least I believe it had been done to give the Committee the chance to drop 4. The bill, on the other hand, gives more members of the council the opportunity to support the whole issue, and it may also create reconciliation outside the council on a certain point of view. I'm not sure if it's possible to create peace, but I felt that I was trying, and in that light, I support that suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u10	A respectable president. I support that the case will be reassigned. We were denied visitors to a committee. The matter is not well discussed. We are under obligation in this council hall to hurry. We're not in any rush. There's nothing that calls for you to drive this case through the way it is right now. Let's take a breath. Let us not hurry to destroy life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u11	Mr. President. Here we have a program to talk more and more about matters that have been given considerable publicity during the council, both at the time. A panel of well - arranged committees and three conferences at a Senate Hall, with no restrictions, with no restrictions each one has had to speak as many times as he wants. I don't fully understand why this program proposal has come forward now except to make peace with those who oppose the bill. Is that cool? Is it really acceptable, if the majority of them have the bill, to postpone a discussion so that those who disagree can force the more portion on their side? I'm not sure that the rest of us would be happy with that, but I'm not sure that changing the bill would be a special thing if women had the right to themselves and their bodies to have someone else to have it. I'm not sure there's much more at the council for such a suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u12	Last night's conference, which included professors of ethics, human rights lawyer, and obstetrics, made it clear that this case is very uncontaminated, the fetus itself is not in the bill, and no community discussion has really been asked. It was suggested that members of Parliament take more time to look into the matter, as has been suggested by the National Institute of Moral Science, as has the development aid and bishop of Iceland. Here we go beyond any other country in the North, creating a new pregnancy break to avoid emotional attachment to life, where killing is being done. Mr. President. Is that not really to be delayed, to think, and to work better? There is nothing that calls for this quick treatment. I challenge the highest. President to postpone the case. This is not to be kept stressful with much of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u13	The Congress has spoken very clearly with its vote here on the matter's being on the program for the meeting. Once taken into account, members of the Parliament can explain their position when votes begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u14	A respectable president. The changes in pregnancy break legislation, which are now paid votes for threshold break. The turning point is that with this new law, women in Iceland finally have the perfect right to go along with them and have a child. The issue is about women's security and freedom in this regard, and it is long time for this change to be made and the law has been transferred to the 21st century. I want to thank you. A welfare committee for good work, and especially why. The head of the committee and the chairman of the case, Halldóra Mogensen, for the keeping of this complex matter very carefully. I also want to thank the women's movement for long struggles, women's freedoms sooner and later, subversive movements, people in the council and outside, people on the backs of the world today, and for those views. I also want to thank all the women who have taken their step and shared their stories, both publicly and personally. It's a long journey, but today we are developing one of the most progressive laws on women's self - determination rights. That is why this is a happy day. With broad support at the council, we express our clear desire to remain in the world's highest regard for women's status. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u15	A respectable president. We'll pay here for a vote on my transition for a slight change of Article 4. The bill, which is designed to match the viewpoint of all those who have expressed great doubts about this article, including for moral, emotional, and religious reasons. This large group includes a number of other industrial institutions at the University of Iceland, the bishop of Iceland, and the president of the Medical Council of the Land Hospital, which may be a reproductive and gynaecologist. In the bill itself, ten steps are taken in weeks from current law. It's too far. It's too fast here. Let us take two steps back with respect to other viewpoints in this delicate matter and accept the following adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u16	Mr. President. Today, we vote on a matter that I feel at least I've been discussing ever since I studied feminism's philosophy, ever since I started reasoning with someone and another on the conflicting nationalities. So I can't agree with what. Councilmen here did not have community discussions about women's self - determination rights for their own bodies, their permission to break up pregnancy, the boundaries of life and death, and all that. I feel like I've been discussing them my whole life, and I think a lot of people in this room can agree with that. This is a matter of principle. That's very important to me and to a lot of people. On the contrary, it is a well - worked case. Councilmen have said here, both at the council and before it was presented here. It is based on extensive work and long process. It focuses on the basic freedom of women, our health, and our lives. I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u17	Mr. President. This bill does not suddenly come from the heavens; rather, it is based on careful discussion and work, a report that was beginning to be carried out at the highest level. The minister of Kristján Þór, the son of Júlíusson, was returned to the highest. Secretary of Óttar Proppér, a job that was due to review the pregnancy discontinuation legislation. Now the General has completed his discussion on the subject. I think it's good coverage, and the committee's done a great job. I support this bill, for it is part of a larger ideologies for extending people's freedom and rights. I trust women to take good care of this freedom and to associate with it with responsibility. But let us bear in mind that the woman will not be free unless she has her own body. This bill is a step toward making women in this country more free, and I support it with my whole mind and would have supported it myself without time limit. But I believe this bill is a compromise between viewpoints and will support it because I think it's a huge step towards the individual's freedom. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u18	A respectable president. We here vote on women's self - determination rights. There is no basis for decommissioning it with any particular week number. Pregnancy breakes have been performed here until this time. We are merely wondering about this self - determination right. It's been 22 weeks since we took this case into a committee. We have truly been honest about this matter, as we have possibly been able, and it may have been unwise to have an open meeting on the matter in order to show how much and honestly we did in it. We haven't pulled our legs or held back our information. We've taken and discussed all the views. In our personal life, we go to the vote that matters to us about life. There, let's vote for each of us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u19	A respectable president. Pregnancy break should not be the first option; it should be one of the options offered to women who are not trusting to complete their pregnancy. Pregnancy break should always be carried out as early as possible during pregnancy. However, allowing pregnancy to be broken later in pregnancy is to cope with absolutely exceptional situations. The bill is not about the circumstances or environment that I or most of us are experiencing here. No woman experiences pregnancy break-up at week 22 unless there are compelling reasons. It is never easy to imagine anyone else making such a decision. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u20	A respectable president. Unlike many people here on this subject, I declare that I have no idea what is right or wrong in this matter. But I've noticed that humans have strong conviction that this bill, exactly this bill as it is made, is the right bill. I don't have any conviction. Men have mentioned the self - determination rights of women, and men around here have declared support for women's self - determination rights, as if someone were protruding that here is someone who is against him. [[Celebrity tradition.]] I am certainly a man of women's self - determination, but I mention that this bill is in no way a woman's self - determination. [[The president calls.]] This bill assumes that after week 22. It is then honorable of the highest. The prime minister to declare that she had wanted to go further, that it would be in harmony with her view that a woman would not have to consider the unborn. [[The president calls.]] Respect for the disabled has also been mentioned, but viewpoints presented in the report appear to be incompatible with that goal. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I feel very necessary to discuss the possible rights of the fetus, although it may not be possible to achieve some agreement between experts and other groups in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I don't see the way to support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u21	Mr. President. This is a day of frustration. The result of this case is evidence of the government's inadequacy to accept different viewpoints. The government has already shown itself to be unable to accept differing views. Nothing has been left to this issue since its arrival, no matter what warning warnings, despite widespread opposition among the people. Despite considerable opposition within the council, there has been no compromise. This is primarily a testimony to the inability to accept differing viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u22	President. I think it's important to thank you. The members of the welfare committee for the work we did because we had an enormous number of visitors, and this has been a difficult situation for many members on a welfare committee. We've been discussing this back and forth, and although three members of a welfare committee have turned up a special party, we came together to conclude on this matter on the welfare committee. I appreciate it and the work that went on there, and I want to thank you for that. This is an enormous deal, and I am proud to have been involved. I'm sorry that the discussion went into the way she went because what we're talking about is a very small group of women who are often in a difficult situation and making enormous, difficult decisions that they have to take responsibility for all their lives. People here have talked about these women as if they were some kind of villain, and I feel so bad that I had to listen to them. [[The president calls.]] Thank you very much. A health minister for this important matter, I'm proud to have participated in it, and I thank the welfare committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u23	A respectable president. I want to come up here to declare my disappointments that I have not succeeded, but it is true that there is some agreement between the groups that are going on here. There has been an amazing peace of mind in the community over a long period of time. The next year and the next year, we will see groups forming again for the change of the law to be expected to be accepted below. I think it would have been a good many things because we'd take a little longer trying to bridge the gap between the viewpoints that are going on here and take more careful steps to the earth in this delicate matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u24	A respectable president. Over 40 years ago, Svava, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, said here at council on the same subject: It is not until the decision - rights that the controversy will rise. When the self-determination of a woman is required, the cry of life, and of sin, and of iniquity. But when the decision court is brought into the hands of government officials, these voices cease. Then there is no more talk of sin and crime. A respectable president. This is not a change in the time arrangement that is now being accomplished. Rather, it is the mother's right to make a decision and bring the legislation out of the past into the future and into the present. The decision to break the pregnancy cannot be taken by the system and officials but by the woman alone. That is a fundamental factor in the self - determination of women. This is the right step, not wrong, and this is the bill I support. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u25	Mr. President. I trust women. This vote isn't the hardest thing I've done in my little Senate career because I trust women. I trust women to appreciate their own best interests. Thank you very much. Minister for the bill. Thank you. A well - arranged committee and any members of Congress who have worked well on the Committee. I also want to thank the women who have fought for this and the women who have shared with us in their difficult experiences. Thank you, ladies. Thank you, everyone. I'm incredibly proud to get to vote with this today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u26	Mr. President. We're here to vote on women's self-determination rights. No doubt, the 20 - week motion is presented with good intentions to try to communicate matters, but with its approval it would be to restrict the possibility of people in extremely difficult circumstances to make their own decisions in relation to their current project of 2 and 3 mg. 10th par. current track. A discussion on a welfare committee showed a point of view, including taking into account the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disregarding People, that it was impossible to write in such cases after the 18th or 20th weeks, except to enter the pit of disability. The extension of a greater part of the committee in this difficult matter is the one close to accepting a different viewpoint. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u27	A respectable president. That's the big time. I was actually hoping we wouldn't have to deal with this, away from many others. Councilmen here. The reasoning presented here on the subject of the bill has been lacking in my knowledge. I've thought it was rather dreary in the redness. On the other hand, talking about the woman's right to make a decision to break her pregnancy until the end of her 22nd week of pregnancy, as soon as she is clearly losing him when these deadlines fail, I feel that I am not right. Besides, I don't feel like there's been a whole line on the bill. Section 5. I've caused a lot of sorrow, so I don't talk about 4. ... so I would have liked to see that we had put our arms around this whole thing and that we had made it right together. Sadly, we now face this situation. It's not a happy day for me. I am not proud to be a woman who can boast of this self - determination. I'm sad today, and I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u28	A respectable president. We prefer to vote for a bill that divides the nation into opposing factions, the most historic bill in later years, and the kind of freedom of equality and women. It involves religious attitudes, law, ethics, medicine, and other forms of community life. There are many matters of opinion, and it is not surprising, the nature of the matter as it is, but the Group of the United States supports this turning point in the reign of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. At the end, I'd like to court, a respectable president, that the matter has been discussed in a thorough and professional manner with a well-being committee. The head of the Committee, Halledor Mogensen, immediately announced that she would be willing to give her enough time as needed, called out to a group of guests and resources on the committee, obtain all information according to the wishes of the committee. This was being accomplished, and I thank the chairman for good work and other members of the committee for a balanced approach to delicate matters, which hopefully come to a successful conclusion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u29	President. It is surprising how this case has been pushed forward, and it also makes the conduct of many supporters of this case with those who have had doubts about it doubt that it would be right to try to place some kind of world record in the length of time for an unreflinchable abortion in Iceland. People have been laughed at, mocked, and in every way minimized the willingness to respond to such a change. Nor have the reasoning believed that I doubt that any senator doubts about the self - determination of women. If it was merely a matter of control over a life within another person's body, it would apply to about seven months, eight months, and nine months. In fact, it was the highest grade. Hence, the prime minister, in a most striking way before that the minister had not wanted to have any time limit. This, in fact, is in harmony with this reasoning, but the discussion has never been given to focus on the natural limits of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u30	Mr. President. In such a delicate matter, we cannot conclude that we are going to roll with each stone and examine the matter from all sides. A member of the Central Health Committee requested a 2nd request. After some tests and the presence of a health committee were made by specialists. The material and reasonable desire was rejected. Why is it not to be taken into consideration? There's no good remedy for such a case, Mr. President. The discussion needs a number of things, including more careful discussions than it can be seen about the rights to unborn children and the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u31	A respectable president. I know this case is delicate. It affects many human aspects. However, today's situation is that 96% of pregnancies are broken prior to week 12, 3% before 16 and only 1% thereafter. The question is, there are very few cases. It is not a small decision for a woman to have a late pregnancy break. I dare say that. The same schedule is being carried out today, a committee that makes that decision for the woman. It is my conviction, to a certain extent, that I believe the only way is for the woman to make that decision herself. There are a number of reasons, but it is unfair to put such things in law, and I trust women to make that difficult decision. Her life, her body, her decision. The talk has been harsh, and the legislation is old, and the status and rights of women have been blessed to change since the law was given, but talking about disrespect in one direction is very special, since it is especially against the bill, and sometimes it seems that pregnancy breakes usually, which have shown women who have made this difficult decision, much disrespect. [[The president calls.]] But it is especially because of my convictions about the individual's freedom, responsibility for himself, and self - determination rights that I get this conclusion and support the bill. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u32	A respectable president. We are here in the hands of an extremely delicate case, but as important as it is, it was very important to work on the implementation of these cases in Iceland would start in its own time. It took time to get the case to the council, and to be honest, I was quite sure that the council would take more time to reflect on all the different viewpoints needed to bear in mind. I feel that in every opinion presented, especially in the reference period in this subject, the answer has always been: a woman's freedom. I feel that women's freedom is of utmost importance and that they should be the main source of pressure on these matters, but I still don't feel that women's freedom is the only other measure in these matters. I must say exactly as it is in my opinion that this opinion of the committee is relatively insignificant in an overexpensive, heavy, and important language, and is polarized over extremely delicate and difficult matters with a handful of sentences, e.g. that it is so difficult to list the factors that can justify invasive during late pregnancy, and therefore are only released. [[The president calls.]] That's a big disappointment for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u33	Mr. President. Governments are not meant to be able to provide so much authority for abortion. The matter is controversial and sensitive. Governments are to ensure the best available maternal protection and economic and social conditions that encourage women to stand by God - given life and have promised us a blessing. I'm against this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u34	A respectable president. In the past, I was shocked by words that caused me some confusion. I wrote them down. One down. One Christian noted that this was about avoiding any emotional attachment to life that was being killed. I think that word rhymes a little with the inadequacy of the matter - I'm not going to say a misunderstanding, I'm going to say an understanding of the matter - like it's someone with a stronger emotional attachment than the one facing that decision. As a doctor with all his education has a stronger emotional connection with the fetus, but the pregnant woman herself is absurd. There's no one with a stronger emotional connection than the pregnant woman herself. No one in the world is better qualified to make that decision than that individual. The issue lies in the basis of whether people would prefer a doctor who does not have the emotional attachment to him to make the decision than the one who carries the child. It's about women's right to make decisions. That's what this is about. [[The president calls.]] That's a fact. I think it's a sign of a certain stubbornness and denial to act like it's not. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u35	Mr. President. Let's get this material together. This bill is not cutting the fetus's rights. Today, abortion is permitted by week 22. After approval of this bill, pregnancy break-off is permitted by week 22. Your child's or your unborn child's rights are not being affected. However, increasing the mother's rights to make the decision longer is up to the 22nd week. What's at the other end? Some people want to ban the practice of conception; some want to forbid the first heartbeat, meaning that even the woman does not know that she is pregnant. That's what's happening in America. Canada does not have a legal law against the Supreme Court, which forbids abortion until the baby is born. However, the pregnancy would be encouraged to occur, etc. But that's the way it is. This is in the center of the embryo's fundamental rights. [[The president calls.]] If a woman, e.g. You can smoke or do anything that harms your unborn baby after week 22. This is not an abortion, however, an increase in women's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u36	A respectable president. It's about the right of women, the right of the life that has begun and in no way, everyone, about the rights of men. But I believe we have a little right to at least... discuss this. We must realize that it is said that a fetus cannot live by the 22nd week. That's not true. For that time, 6% of the fetus lives. Technology always goes forward, and there will be more embryos to survive before that time. The increase of bosentan is due to the production of all organs of the foetus. The only thing that's prevented it is lung development. So we're supposed to take our time. We too are to discuss the rightfulness of the life that is being born. We have an obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u37	V.E.G. President. I'll agree with the highest. The minister of finance, the Commission's opinion of a case that is a huge ritualist, a huge case involving women's rights, and self - determination is really nothing. I have personally considered this matter not merely about self - determination or woman freedom, as if it were about women's freedom to walk into the Land Hospital and say, "You're here to perform an operation and to abort the fetus. " You have to be quick, it's coming 22 weeks. I don't see anything special about it, any more than that I could walk into the Land hospital and say, "Hey, I've decided to take my own life, and you're supposed to do it. I'm sure it's not for me. These moral and philosophical issues need to be discussed much more. Then comes a committee opinion that does not give us reason to believe that this case was not discussed. [[The president calls.]] I don't doubt that there was a lot of discussion on the committee, but it doesn't give us reason to believe that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u38	Mr. President. I come up here to make an honest decision against all the reason. Council members who argue that the rest or these events on this matter were not discussed, the others or those matters of opinion were not discussed in the community or in the community, that it is not at all true. I'm gonna do it again. A lot of those things. During the treatment of the council, members of Congress have chosen not to participate in discussions on this matter. Also, I think there's a hole in it by a dog. The members of the Independence Party here discussing that the council should have taken more time on this matter if we consider it related to other large, highly controversial cases. An independent party has come through the council at a much faster and much shorter time during its reign than is true of this matter. These include the fishing bill or the order of a judge in the Country Court. But when it comes to the self - determination of women over their own bodies, they need more time for thought. [[The president calls.]] We may differ in our judgment of what is needed and what is considered to be the proper and careful treatment of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u39	Mr. President. True, the matter is about the self - determination of women and women's freedom, and it should not be the following thing. It must be the moral standards of the woman herself, that must be the religion of the woman herself, that must be her attitude toward pregnancy, and that of having a child who is to be hired. That can't be my attitude, my moral evaluation. It cannot be my religious opinion. Rather, it is the woman whose values apply to her own life, not to some baseless values that we make for each woman. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u40	A respectable president. Dear colleagues. Here we discuss very sensitive and, at the same time, much justice for women. After these changes, women have been asked for more than four decades to control their own bodies. Think about it. The old law was passed in 1975 - by men. Men do not have impaired rights for their bodies on the part of the Lawgiver, and such rights are not for them or for others to dose women based on emotion. At least women are their circumstances too. The decision to interrupt pregnancy does not take a woman lightly, let me say, at any time during pregnancy, whether at week 3, 6, week 12, or 22. Also, this bill does not change any help for a woman who would like it, both medical and otherwise. Respect differing opinions, but, my colleagues, in the 21st century, we do not compromise women's rights. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[A hairsick in the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u41	The president reminds us that silences are to be kept silent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u42	A respectable president. The peace that has ruled since 1975 is that the law doesn't tell us what we're doing. We are arguing that we are going to break the pregnancy law with the deadline as they have been planned for 40 years, and that is what causes the disagreement. It says that we on a welfare committee should have thought about taking two steps back and choosing someone else's week number, as if we've been hanging out on this, as if we've been in some duke, some political cub about how many weeks there should be. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] No, they're based on professional expert judgment. This is discussed in the bill and the committee, and although ministers have not read it, this does not mean that they can minimize it. [[A hairsick in the Senate.]] I would like to mention what needs to be mentioned because the welfare committee's activities are minimized in these discussions. I thank Halldóra Mogensen, why. A senator, for careful work on this matter, in which all guests were well received, and this matter was investigated in such cases. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u43	Mr. President. I now pronounce my pleasure by the motion of the lntruders, the highest. Secretary of finance and other independents who have spoken up here. I am also surprised that the Independence Party, first of all, allowed this matter through the government and second, that they had not had more equipment on the committee from which it was handled in an inadequate way. Then, the prime minister, the independent people, makes the decision that the matter originated from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u44	V.E.G. President. This is a difficult matter to discuss. I would like to intervene only in the language that has been about the individual's freedom, about the woman's freedom to control her own body. I agree with the view that no one would ever think of cutting the individual's freedom or the woman's right to control his own body. But there's more to it, and I agree with the view that there would have been more to this and more to the National Institute of Moral Science, since this has to do with a number of things, e.g. other laws and regulations that we have in place under the protection of the fetus to develop by means of ionising radiation on board the air vents. It allows ordinary people to get one intermediate item. Radiographs, for example, can take three microns and six flight groups - the authority of the fetus. Another example is that of child protection laws or such. þm. The Brynjar of Niel's son has come in, in the judgment of the law of the law, and in the right of the fetus. [[The president calls.]] I think we should discuss this better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u45	President. As has been noted many times today from this discourse, it is difficult in many ways. It's fragile. This has also changed in the case of the council. From the health minister, this situation was introduced over an 18 - week period. It has been changed to 22 weeks. I believe that as many people in this room would have needed more time. It's not because I don't respect a woman's self - determination, that's what I do with all my heart is, but either I'm so imperfect or I'm not inclined to make a decision on this matter, I can't help but watch a developing 22 - week - old fetus. For that reason alone, I can't afford to accept this case as it's now over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u46	A respectable president. It's gonna be every time. A senator drawing his conclusions and making decisions based on his own convictions, and they vary from one person to another. I can't help finding out that even though this is a difficult matter for many people, it seems that it's harder for men than it is for women. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Why? Is it true that women senators are more heartless? Do they see the matter worse? What could explain it as a statistical pattern? I'm going to leave that question for a reason. Councilmen themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u47	V.E.G. President. Since 1975, who is the best person to decide that pregnancy breakes out other than the person within the fetus? What a responsibility this woman has all her life! I trust women, and I trust mothers with these rights, and therefore I will say yes. There is one thing here in this hall to be against the abortions that humans must only reveal, but this matter is in my mind about the self - determination of women's rights to a pregnant woman who will carry this burden all her life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u48	Mr. President. It is time for us to revise and improve this 44 - year - old law. Today, the majority of women, 94.4%, break their pregnancy by week 12 even though they are allowed until the end of week 16. So this bill won't change anything about it. To meet certain conditions, pregnancy is also permitted to end with the woman, not by her own authority, but by a physician, a lawyer, and a sociologist. So a woman can be forced to walk for nine months. Pregnancy breakes are present during pregnancy, extreme decisions, and major causes may require such an operation. There is simply no one better for that than the woman herself to decide, so I will say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u49	President. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more, but it was important for me to come up here and join my colleagues, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. It's a pity to observe how many men come here and talk in the same sentence as they respect women's self - determination rights, not when it comes to having custody of their own bodies. The situation is that today a woman breaks her pregnancy until week 22, not at the end of the 22nd, as it has been said here, but at week 22. That's what this is about. However, it is health care professionals who make this decision for the woman. We're talking here about trusting the woman to make her own decision. There is no one to make that decision for her. We can't talk about respect women's self - determination rights, just out there. There's someone else making a decision, and that's what they say, President, that it's a fear that women are about to break up with pregnancy that a week's 22nd just for fun because it's possible now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Oh, yeah, listen, I'm 20 weeks from now, I'm just gonna break the pregnancy--because I can do it now without getting permission from health care professionals. [[The president calls.]] It's just a disrespect for women, a gross disrespect and a mistrust statement for women. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u50	Mr. President. I was so lucky to attend one of the Committee's Committee's Committees recently on the matter that we now vote for. It was clear that the committee took the matter very seriously and that it had evidently been discussed from different angles and points, especially the number of weeks. Similarly, at the United States Congress, we were informed about the entire discussion on the committee of our committee, why. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson. So I don't quite understand how badly many people are disturbed. Councilmen appear to be members of even members of a council of two members of the committee. As mentioned here, the only thing that's being changed is who makes the decision. The number of weeks is actually the same, as is the increased emphasis on information that is also important. To me it is not a question, the woman is the only one who has the basis for making decisions about her own body and her own life. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u51	A respectable president. We must face the fact that this is a very difficult matter. When you listen to an explanation, it is obvious, and it is only understandable, that some have taken the discussion much more and deeper and therefore have firm opinions, but I think it is important that we try to keep this discussion both here and in society as balanced as possible. I think it's obvious that women are more inclined to make this difficult decision than some experts, as good as they are, but I kind of come up here because I'm one of the many people who find it difficult, that I think for obvious reasons, but I think this is still harder if we don't speak in this room and elsewhere with respect for each other's opinions. It is only understandable that they differ greatly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u52	A respectable president. I did it the same way I did. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen earlier, that here many men come, declaring, of course, that they are worthy of the women's self - determination rights over their own body as soon as they present this self - determination right of women over their own body because the pregnancy takes place in this body. There is no other body that is pregnant, and that is why only this one body is involved. It is all right to admit that we are here in agreement about whether women's self - determination rights are to their own bodies and that they will not be satisfied with that. I can tell myself that I support this self - determination right, which is why I support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u53	A respectable president. I come up here because I am simply moved to correct a problem. The head of the welfare committee who is fully responsible for the bill - since we're talking about weeks and appears to be stuck there - reaches the 22nd week. With the permission of the President, I will read here this brief first sentence of Article 4. in the bill we're about to vote on: It is permitted to interrupt the pregnancy of a woman, on her request, until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. I don't know what to explain. I think it's totally cloudy. Something else that's caused a lot of confusion, apart from the fact that there's been some depression here. A senator would like to compare this to the treatment of a fishing fee, I think it's quite different, but it's also wrong that there's no change from week 16 to week 22 in comparison with what we're doing here and now. After week 16, the current legislation requires that there be a clear medical reason for this procedure to be performed. [[The president calls.]] That's totally different from what you're talking about 4. The bill originally submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u54	President. I thought it was important to come up and explain that although I feel that this adjustment is made with a good mind, we looked at this very carefully at the welfare committee's work, but this would include limiting the present woman's right to break her pregnancy. If we're taking an exception from the law and we're sticking to it for 20 weeks, we'd be limiting the current women's right to break up. So I can't support this adjustment, and I can see that most people do not. What a joy it is!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u55	Mr. President. Just to explain this adjustment proposal. These are minor modifications. The change is technical and is submitted to ensure the compliance with the bill for sterilization procedures. A final review of the case concluded that several aspects of Article 13. the bill needed repairs. 13th par. assuming that a pregnancy break-in will be taken out of the law on counselling and instruction regarding sexual activity, pregnancy and abortion and infertility. The bill was not entirely careful that these changes brought together a whole text of law. So this change is proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u56	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree that this is a good adjustment proposal, and I'd like to say that there's the only good thing that came out of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u57	Mr. President. Like I made a clear distinction in 2nd. I support all of this bill's main points, all of them, and I voted and supported them. But that's 4. Twenty-two weeks, though, is a threshold I can't cross. So nobody comes or shouldn't surprise anyone in this room when I'm at the end of this case -- I requested for the last week after a discussion was delayed so that some final attempt could be made to make any further reconciliation - no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u58	A respectable president. I'm really sorry I can't support this bill. I voted for all its branches after 2nd. ... apartfromSt.4 st. Where I sat beside them with confidence, as it were. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason described earlier. In other words, I think that the bill is a good thing that most things, or all, are different from those of the week, and especially to the number of women's self - determinations are good for the bill. However, the inconsistency and inconsiderateness of the values of many people involved in bathing 4. It's not as simple as it is, it's just going through me. This moves me to say no, a respectable president. No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u59	The Senator says no, it only counts once.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u61	A respectable president. I have no expectations or any expectations that this matter can be solved or that it will be achieved by some kind of universal harmony. I do, however, feel that this is a matter, and then I point to 4. g., be it as simple as the fact that the council has the opportunity to cover that point much more thoroughly, to bring up discussions outside the council as well as from the Hémanian viewpoint. There are persistent moral questions in this, philosophical, that I don't have an answer to. I cannot say at this moment in itself what my view of these matters is. She may even have changed, and she has changed in my lifetime, my own opinion on this matter. But I don't think this release is the council, and this case is a good subject, and by my reference, I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u62	V.E.G. President. In April 1975, this hall was divided over a pregnancy - breaking bill. In the past, freedom of abortion was required, but the proposal of a three - male committee was made out of the hands of women and to a professional. Familiars felt better about the time when a pregnancy could be regarded as unbearable and when it could not be tolerated. Like a sledgehammer. A senator, Svava Jakobsdóttir, noticed in these discussions the fear turned to the woman's right of decision but disappeared as soon as the power of decision was brought to officials then, by permission of the president, some sort of sinless redemption. Probably it was a fear of some sort of inexactability of women. If they get too much rights, they'll never know what they'll do with them. This fear is much less evident in our culture, but it cannot be viewed as beneficial if he is in control of law, even though there are probably too many examples of it. Today, 44 years later, there is a World Council bill that corrects this error in legalization from the 1970's and gives it to women where it belongs. [[The president calls.]] Finally, my chief. President, finally. I say yes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u63	Mr. President. I think there's a reason to come up here and say thank you. A health minister for a well-worked bill, both from a historical point of view but also to bring us into the present and future, as well. Health and welfare committees for very careful review of all factors; information available to me and others that will be able to make a decision based on their own convictions and conscience. I think it's a very important day. We are under duplication the self - determination rights of women, the freedom of women, in this matter. I'd like to make one special point. Ministers because I know that she has shown this interest, but there have been concerns about health screening. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister should specifically review that policy and how to be screened so that the health system alone does not make any decision on such issues. But I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u64	Mr. President. I'm more likely to accept this bill, and I'd like to make again and again because of a number of senators' comments on the week's count and I don't think it could have been cut off by some sort of indiscretion on the part of those who want to stand by him, that in a report of the staff as the highest level. the current health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, had pregnancy break-out legislation established - from 2016, using proben, this has been established - by permission of the president: ▪ If a pregnancy ends before 23 weeks, and a fetus weighs less than 500 g, it is defined as an abortion according to the World Health Organization. The completion of pregnancy after 22 weeks is defined as birth. These standards have been used in Iceland since 1987, with the basis for the birth rate in the New World Translation. A baby born to a full of 22 weeks of pregnancy has virtually no chance of survival. During 23 weeks of pregnancy, about 10◯55% of children survive, This information has been available for a very long time. There's nothing proper there. [[The president calls.]] It's not some feeling we have there. That's all experts agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u65	The Senator says...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u66	The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u67	Mr. President. Here we vote on one of the women's biggest rights in the past, and I wanted to use this opportunity to thank the highest. A health minister who has had the courage to contribute this matter, a health committee for a careful discussion, as well as the number of women and health professionals who have taken up the discussion. I'm proud to be allowed to vote on this fundamental matter, but in my mind it's always the woman who's supposed to make a decision about her own life and her own body. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u68	A respectable president. When the Red Sock movement finally broke out that this was almost free of abortion, they were aware that it would have to happen quietly after a certain time. The fact that they were practitioners really could not be passed into law. Here we are bringing that reality into law. That's why I don't think it's a significant decision. We are just in the lyrics of rights for women to enjoy in the community over the last few decades. It has been said that there were countless valid views and not all of them. These were presented views from women's specialists on the self - determination of women, or what people sometimes call in a disparagingly tone: a woman's emotional desire to make a decision of their own. We are on his side by accepting this matter. There was evidence on a medical basis that 22 weeks is the right place, the balance point in this matter. We follow that reasoning. [[The president calls.]] The evidence that we especially listened to came from people who use religious convictions as the basis for their political beliefs. It's one of the top bishops of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It is not legal for those in a country based on civil values. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u69	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u70	I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u71	V.E.G. President. I support the self - determination rights of women who are discussed here, and surely it is time. But I will not pay this bill of my vote because I find it unrecognised the rest of Iceland's Scaring Alliance, which, despite all the umbrellas for a variety of other organizations. There is no respect for the review of the Development Fund and no respect for the community of amateur Down syndromes is respected. That's what I had in mind when I worked with 18 weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u72	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u73	Don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u74	The Senator doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u75	Mr. President. It is long, chained with responsibility for nine months as each of us grows in the world of mankind. I mention, for example. The responsibility of a man and a woman in the first place I mention the woman of her pregnancy, the specialists of the pregnancy, whether as counselors or as saviors, but in all responsibilities, there is one final decision, and there is one judge. And who is he in this case? Who's next to the fetus? Without a doubt: It is the woman herself. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u76	A respectable president. It's a heavy day. This is a tough situation for all of us. An abortion of less than twice the number of people sitting in this room, every month of the year - or about two times the number of people sitting here - has been performed each month. 120 foetuses per month. I'm grateful for all my life here. I'm on my side, and that's why I'm saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u77	I say yes, top dog. President, because this is an enormous step that has been waiting for a long time. Listening here to middle - aged men who're going to do a fistful of women's fists is a pain in the ass. [[The point is, What are these prejudices?]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u78	The president asks for sound both in the hall and in the bars.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u79	Likely, comparable to men is the case with women and their right to make decisions. Not to trust women in making a wise decision. Such a decision, such as this, is never taken lightly. It has been suggested here that there will be only an opportunity for pregnancy to occur. It's just not like that. But I came up here to thank the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers for starting the case at their time by requesting this report. I'm going to thank the highest. Health Minister for having the courage and courage to bring this matter forward, and especially the welfare committee and the driving force. Her chairman for winning this case in all the way that has been set up here in this room. We are not to compromise the right of women to self - determination, as this has repeatedly suggested, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u80	A respectable president. Sadly, a discussion of the bill in which it is currently under has been canceled. The talk has been misleading and difficult, and serious matters have been misled in an unfair, return - seeking manner. Here from the chair of the high Council, several members of the council have declared it, even smiling, and with tears in their eyes, indeed supporting the woman's self - determination, but not in this way, it is a great deal of good. Sooner or later, I'll tell you. The comments actually reflect doubts about the woman's ability to make her own choices, her own life. And the discussion with them has been humiliating and shameful. Self - centered individuals have failed to give in to poverty, have neglected child families, and have failed them and the elderly. Today, a number of these women face a difficult situation of distrust. They give their own government bill a long nose, political divinity, and charlatanism. [[The president calls.]] I won't. I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u81	A respectable president. I was sorry to hear a talk last night. A senator, who is at all reasonable and perfunctory, was certainly not in his speech. I find this case difficult. I just think it's very difficult. I respect the viewpoint of all those who have different viewpoints in this room. I see no reason for that, and I can't see what makes one speak in this way to the best consciences in this difficult matter express himself about his position. I find the most difficult - except that, in general, this sort of thing is difficult -- that you would have liked to see Article 4. Love it better. That's why I paid a vote for a change. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon. But, anyway, when you get all together, I think it's the best thing to do here, and then I'm specifically suggesting that the person, in this case, is the best person to make this difficult decision instead of experts and therefore say yes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u82	A respectable president. I can't accept this bill because it says clearly at the end of Week 22. So it is at the beginning of week 23 that pregnancy can be broken. And for another reason, that's 5. Is it possible for a child to have a pregnancy break - or should we use the right word for it? We shouldn't have that word inside some shiny paper. It's an abortion. We're spending, we're not breaking anything. Then until the end of week 22, a child can have an abortion without the permission of parents or guardians. And for these reasons, I can't support this and say no. We must also ask ourselves: There are 1,000 abortions a year, almost every three days of the year. It's supposed to ring our bells and wake up the question, is that okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u83	Mr. President. For example, when it comes to freedom in general, it sometimes forgets that there is a match that they cannot thrive on, i.e. responsibilities. And it is this bond of freedom and responsibility that is relevant to my view of this matter. In addition to the feministic outlook on life that I have, and the belief that a person's freedom is an important objective based on individual rights in general, society thrives best. The bill discussed here is about who has the authority to make a decision on pregnancy break, the woman at one time, or the committee of experts. It is not clear that the woman is responsible. The step of making sure that the freedom to make that decision is also within the woman's mind is vital. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u84	A respectable president. Here, many people come out and talk about a big step in progress. I don't think it's anyone who doesn't speak of the woman's self-determination. When the woman's self - determination is being repeated, I wondered, " Who in the world will have the final word until the time of her abortion? ' Isn't it the woman herself? All I'm saying is that after week 16, it's such a big prince thing that nobody from the health profession can come to decide whether it's normal to destroy a baby or to break a pregnancy at that time. So I say "no" and "no" again. And I would have felt normal, in view of the amazingness of this bill, both 4 and 5. G., that we had taken it better here and spoken of it, as I have said before, with more zeal and tried to make peace. I believe it could have been done. I really believe that we could have done better. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u85	The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u86	I say four times no. I hope all the votes count.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u87	A respectable president. Of course, the need to listen to personal matters is a sign of great loss to other members of Congress, up to the personal insults of certain members of the body because of differing opinions on this matter. To advise men not to respect the women's self - determination rights when the discussion is about how far the right to achieve, how long it should last. V.E.G. The prime minister has given his opinion on this: He is to reach the end of his life. It is the opinion that people are free to have. I don't have that opinion. When does the fetus have the right to life? And then the flight from the discussion shows us in the case of a pregnancy break in place of an abortion. What is the line between pregnancy discontinuation and abortion, or from a cell cluster, such as the wave. Group members prefer to call it this? [[The president calls.]] He's a pretty good-looking carnivore, president of the United States, sitting right there behind me in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u88	The senators are required to make an account of their votes, not use the opportunity to attack other members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u89	I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u90	Mr. President. It has been found that no one was willing to finish or make any peace in this matter. The course was taken, and it remained unsettled in spite of loud comments and difficult moral questions, as well as much opposition among the people. The result is, or becomes, the most radical abortion law in the Western world. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Foremost among these is the failure of the government's leadership to settle differences of viewpoints. Government surrogacy in this case. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u91	President. It doesn't matter what expression we put our stand on this matter. To me, it's a simple question about whether I respect women's self - determination rights or not. I respect the self-important rights of women. I'm proud to stand here today and put my tiny bit of weight on the scales that he can be the greatest and go all the way. Deceased at a time. Congress officials speak as if there are some limits - they are supposed to reach all the way. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u92	A respectable president. This is, as mentioned many times, controversial. On the other hand, I hate to listen to the discussion under the pretext that people are being viewed by age, sex, or political parties. It's simply a case that cuts across all categories. In this regard, middle - aged men have been well - versed. Lately, I'll be accused of being a boy of being a boy in my bar mitzvah, but I'm a sponsor of this case, and I'm also an independent person, so generality that comes out of no other way than to show me that those who speak such things are not the most qualified men to make decisions in this matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Respect the opinions of those who oppose us. We do not necessarily have to agree with them, but we do not speak down to them. It's not that kind of thing. A respectable president. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u93	A respectable president. Here we are making a vote on a subject that has been considered on the subject. A welfare committee and very good coverage, I see, and objectively. It's well prepared from the highest. Healthcare Minister and has spent several years in observation. We're here together, huh? Councilmen, represented by the Icelandic people. We are democratically elected to make decisions that concern the country's interests, but also the people who live here. I'm honored to be standing here even. Because of confidence in voters who are women. To women, I'd like to say one thing, trust is in both directions. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u94	Mr. President. The Creator commissioned women to walk with children. There was a lot of trust, and I take it further. I trust women to have the right to decide whether to take a child until week 22 or not. It's the woman's choice. I would also like to say to my fellow members that I respect differing views. I feel that we should do so in such a difficult discussion. It's hard for a lot of people. To me, it's not hard. I think it's a very normal thing. We have come to an equal position that this is the women's self - determination right. Only the woman herself can experience that feeling when she has to make such a decision. Let us trust women to the end of this matter. The Creator trusted us women to walk with our children, and I trusted women to make a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u95	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u97	Mr. President. I'm gonna compliment my ex-fiancée. A health minister for extending the vision to set the matter on schedule in his own time and present health - care minister for the courage to put it into practice. At the same time, I thank a welfare committee and her chairman for their well-work and careful work. Of course, I admire all the people who constantly campaign for human rights, equality, and women's freedom. When I realized that I was the last to vote, it was actually appropriate for me to say yes and that the last words of this discussion would be: "Congratulations women. ' [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The Senator says yes. Actually, it's not quite right for him to vote last [Laughter at the Hall of Congress.] Because Steingrimur J. Sigfusson says yes.]] Because Steingrímur J. Sigfússon says yes.) That was close.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u98	Mr. President. We're voting on this vacation agreement, and we all know that human rights are grossly broken in the Philippines. We also know that there is an inunification of human society, both there and elsewhere, of a free trade deal with the country. While Duterte or others such authorities rule the Philippines, I have serious doubts about the right to accept this vacation agreement. I stress that the human rights issue and the discussion will be put in charge of the free trade contract whenever it is discussed or used, but will also look to the time that comes after Dutertes and his reign in this country. I'm going to vote for the Senate arrangement, but with this in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u99	Mr. President. As everyone knows, there has been a terrible situation in the state of human rights since Duterte, president of the Philippines, was elected president of the country. A lower part of the State Department strongly opposes the fact that a vacation agreement will be validated by the Icelandic Parliament in the Philippines under the present conditions of human rights and that the monarchy is that Iceland should wait until the state of human rights is greatly improved. An example is that the General Assembly of the Icelands repeatedly refused the approval of the Senate resolution proposal to validate a free trade due to the mischievous conditions of human rights in that contract. This happened with the EFTA holiday contracts with Colombia, but a Senate proposal for them was submitted four centuries before she was approved by the Generals, which did not until the situation of human rights had improved significantly. So I say no to validate the holiday contract now and I believe the Council should wait until real human rights and freedom of the people of the Philippines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to be able to support this vacation agreement, but at this point the Philippines's human rights situation is that I can't see that my morality is in harmony with my consenting to it. Everyone has to enjoy human rights as much as possible, and in this case, we are not doing the Filipinos or ourselves any favors by supporting them. Of course, I would have supported it, as with other agreements, in times of recovery, but today's elections of the Philippines seem to show that the situation will remain for some year. I'm sorry, I have to say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u101	Mr. President. Of course, it is not easy to answer whether to communicate with countries where there are tyrants who disregard human rights. I believe, however, that the only way the human race can address the root causes of great threats, wars, poverty, climate change, is by close cooperation. I think that in spite of everything, it's better that we have relations with other countries, and I believe that, in fact, the only exporter of Iceland when it comes to foreign affairs is the voice of peace, rights, equality, and such. That is why I trust the government to use his voice and vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u102	Mr. President. I have felt that we should promote peace and prosperity in the world by making contracts and communicating with nations, although these nations are not necessarily democracies. Since then, over all these years, the real success of this has not been determined. Me and the Icelanders have been going this way, but we can see that all the communications and business we have through free trade agreements and other things -- I'm no longer sure that this will bring back what we're calling for, including... Increased freedom and democracy for all the world, because that is the key to prosperity, economic and social, all of us. On the other hand, the committee's opinion clearly emphasizes the importance of the international government's upholding the position of human rights in the Philippines, as they have recently taken place in the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister who has done well in the area of upholding these views should continue to do so. On that basis and including With that in mind, hopefully we will consider the right course to take at one time, I will support this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u103	A respectable president. I understand the argument, that we must use a vacation store to try to improve the state of human rights and democracy in the world. I understand your point of view. But we are now dealing with a state ruled by a man named Duterte who urges the police to execute people on the streets without court and law. We're talking about a total lunatic. There's no more words, there's nothing rude to say. It's just the position we're looking at. The idea that he and his cognans start to improve their human rights status in the Philippines because of this contract makes me feel bad. I can only vote against him with a good conscience. When I read what is stated in the premeditation of the contract on commitment to support democracy and legal rules, I feel that if we are going to act as if something is wrong with the Filipino authorities, we are going to keep it. I think it's a little insulting. Personally, I now respect other people's votes, I can't help paying votes against this case at this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u104	Mr. President. Most of the time, I just think about the words. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir fell here in a pita on the importance of free trades between nations and the importance of spreading the message of rights and freedom in that trade. What I feel, however, is undermined by human rights and their credibility in this proposal here is that we know it - premeditated - that it does not exist to respect the human rights principle in this proposal. If the countries we are going to do business with are not even trying, have not even shown the slightest desire to improve democracy and greater human rights protection, but apparently walking in the opposite direction undermines credibility, human rights, and respect for the fact that we sign it as one another's empty document.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u105	A respectable president. I think it may be safe to say that no nation has been more determined to criticize a violation of human rights in the Philippines than has been taken by the Icelanders. I read it in the foreign press for about a year and a half ago that Human Rights Watch Society felt that Iceland's conduct in the Human Rights Council held back Dutertes'death squads. But at the same time, a respectable president, sometimes with free trades with various countries and many countries that are not at the point in human rights that we would like to see. If we are to change it, we are making many changes. Then I'm referring to business policy. It's this way, a respectable president, to include. Fortunately, we Icelanders have had ideas of many things that we have done here through our dealings with other nations, through business dealings with other nations. It's exactly the same way around here. I'm glad that more than anything is involved in this deal. [[The president calls.]] But I know, a respectable president, and I trust no one will shoot. However, a senator writes about this violation of human rights, which we truly protest and will continue to protest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u106	V.E.G. President. This is a new job, a communication counselor for sports and youth service, with the goal of improving the setting and contributing to the safety of those who are involved in the extensive work done by the sports and youth movement, and who respond to the calls of numerous athletes, declarations and reports under the mark # I repeat, reports that described many forms of violence, harassment, discrimination, and discrimination in the sports world, and are in line with studies relating to such situations of power and violence. The bill is based on the work of a minister's staff and includes further ensuring the protection and safety of those who engage in sports and youth activities, especially children and adolescents. This is reflected in all comments on the subject. The Commission's proposal for the duration, obligation, performance and role of the work should be met by a minister of regulations and of the work, as well as by other laws and terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u107	A respectable president. Always get to try something new. In itself, this matter is quite simple. The case in the form it is now before the council is primarily about the detoxification of the state of liquor trade but the rest of the arrangement, i.e. sales in special stores, still like so far. When these issues have taken place before the council, they have gone either to the General and Education Committee or to the Economic and Business Committee. Of course, it is often done on the basis of the authority given to the committee. Here are two suggestions, one for a financial and business committee, on the other hand, on the welfare committee, that these issues have not been used in the past. But in view of the fact that this is the main business of the alcohol trade - and, of course, the wish of a messenger behind the case - I request support for the case to be referred to a financial and business committee - to be expected, a detailed discussion for the remainder of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u108	A respectable president. I agree with the senator that it is always fun to try something new. The last time this matter came before the council, it went to the General and Education Committee. The most prominent statements toward public health have led to some failure of the case by allowing this version of the case to apply to surgeons and public health. To me, it's simple. Well, it's not simple, but it's possible in three different committees. Wherever the responsibility comes to complete the case, it must be discussed by all three, although only one leads to it. Of course, a welfare committee should tackle this matter, which is a public health matter. Except if we look at this case as a question about the government's income supply system. Then we can send it to the Economic and Business Committee. But I think it's rather simple, and it's not just about dollars and pennies in the state books, it's the basis of state health policy, as it did the Ministry of Health as it was. A senator sat in when that remark came in here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u109	A respectable president. As has often been true in the past, deciding which subjects should address may be a bit complicated. A crime is good and good, and like a dog. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is a valid reason why this matter is being taken to the Economic and Business Committee. However, since Congress has emphasized public health issues in this matter, we support a proposed proposal. paritaprevir Andrés's Jónsson said the matter will go on. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u110	President. Sadly, I missed the beginning of the discussion on this subject this time, but I have to admit that considering what I heard from the discussion, I was surprised when I found out that the case was a place to go. The Economic and Business Committee. I could not hear anything else from the supporters of this bill, but in their presentation, it was most important to public health and the high emphasis that should be put on prevention and public health and public health funds that would change everything about this bill. Therefore, President, I simply assumed that it would be the intention of the movers to a matter that, in so far, was about public health on the committee that dealt with public health. So this surprised me, but I will, of course, support a good suggestion. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son that the case goes where it belongs, so to speak. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u111	A respectable president. I just wanted to remind you that a very similar matter -- which some would like to say was the same - went to the General and Education Committee during the last term and I felt personally that maybe it was the best thing to do there, but I was going to save it. All council members, not paying here votes for something completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u112	A respectable president. I would recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the insurance policy and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that the access to tax-free provision and the assessment of the additional tax pay for special savings in connection with the development of home housing for its own use, which took up value on July 1, 2014, will be extended by two years. The current provisional and assessment of additional special pay is unchanged from 30 June 2019, this summer. The bill includes no changes other than the proposed permission to extend the resources to June 30, 2021, the right to the advantage of special property. The bill then contains secondary changes in income tax laws to ensure the rights of continued tax freedom in the use of resources. The bill is part of the continued government action programme for support to individuals in order to have their own housing and contribute to a lower debt due to home living. Then the bill is part of the operation of the government, which was introduced by a declaration for the biographies of the labour market contracts. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u113	Madam President. Thank you very much. The financial secretary for this case, which is special in that respect, in order to help extend the special property laws, can be used to provide mortgages for the cost of apartment purchases. Now it is that the government decided in the budget of the last year, on the budget bill for this year, that this law would fall. I'd like to state that we at the Central Party have the same bill for the council where we suggest to extend this law because we thought it was very unwise to bring it down. This law has proved to be very effective, and several thousand people take advantage of it according to government tax adviser information. That's why it's urgent to be extended, and I'm celebrating it. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to see if it is not undesirable to have such a circular approach in a case where people make certain arrangements for an apartment purchase, etc., to report it on the last budget bill that this fall, and it is now decided to extend it. That's the kind of work you're doing, chief. Secretary of the budget, not unfortunate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u114	A respectable president. The budget bill explained that unchanged measures would fall within the year. It was not in itself a law of the law, but it is a law in the current law of a few years old. It's nice to report here that the ideas of the provision of special savings first appeared powerfully before the 2013 elections, with independents putting it first in our campaigns for the 2013 elections. Since then, more than 50 billion have been taken out of the special savings system to reduce home debt and continue to increase this year. I believe the project was extremely successful. This cannot be discussed without referring initially to the fact that it was part of an integrated penalties correction procedure and then the special provision for tax return. Perhaps the main reason why this has been in the current law of ending in the summer is that the main goals we set out for the 2013 season have been met. We've reached a better home debt, but it was just before a collapse. That is why they said that this special resource would run its course, while other measures have been legalized in the meantime since especially before the initial conditions. This will now be revealed by the dresser session, which has survived by extending this resource, we are moving dressers into the labour market, which helped to close the collective agreements. With reference to all the good benefits this remedy has had in the past few years, I probably felt like I had that wish, since it could help close the collective agreements and will continue to benefit the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u115	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister who agrees with him with the fact that this has proved to be very effective. That is why when we made it clear that the government was going to put it out of force, we made a similar bill. I'm first to criticize this methodology, to cycle this up and down, to bring it forward in the fall that the warrant will be canceled. Of course, it has an effect and concerns, e.g. Young people and those who are going to pay off loans are going to be decommissioned. Then there is a policy change in terms of collective agreements, such as the highest. Minister rightly says. It's that methodology that I don't like and that I'm primarily critical. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that this is an important strategy and has proved to be very effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u116	A respectable president. What may be the most important concern of these matters is that we are here with an indiscriminate operation. I can say with what. A senator, of course, that it is best that these things exist for the longest future at any one time. To date, it has been assumed that the resource originally for three years, was extended, and then we are extending it back now by two years, would end in the summer. With an indiscriminate decision, we are extending the options so that I am not the only problem that may be created by suggesting this now. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees on the main points. I hope this is how it is with the general council that we have agreed that this would be wise. One of the reasons why humans have been at peace to permit such an early assessment of specialisation by taxation is that they have felt that there would not be any interference with future pensions. Of course, underlying is the thought that otherwise the pension money would work, and this would be a marked time. I can't support myself, for example. that we make it an ongoing situation that someone 25 years of age has something called special savings but takes away all his careers and a shield for housing. Then there is really no special savings, and we should start calling things the right names.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u117	V.E.G. President. I welcome this bill very much, and in fact, I'm glad that the government that is now serving has the opportunity to be sensible. It even appeared. in that she picks up one matter after another, which the Central Party has already proposed. I could mention this case, and I could mention a case on social security travel, although the government did not want to go as far as the media in that subject. But this is a cause for rejoicing, and it is quite right. Birgir In the past, Þórarinsson's camp said that we Middle-class people suggested Christmas, i.e. in the budget, that this law should be given, but the government didn't accept it at that time. I can see the pull. I totally understand that the government, with the highest power. Secretary of finance in the power of a company, wanting to come like a knight on a white horse into a big talk and solve it with one quick blow. I understand that very well. But it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter where good things come from. And, of course, you're right. The secretary of finance said before, he's absolutely right, that this particular operation was naturally a very important link in the due-time debt correction, which is, in my opinion, and many others probably one of the most successful economic actions ever performed in Iceland for a very long time. The operation has been severed, and very frequently, and it has been said repeatedly that it was tailored to some rich people. By no means! I remember that moment. Senator, now the highest. When we were fighting the matter of penalties through the council, the chairman of the council felt that, as he said, people could increase their wealth. Now it is so that if I remember correctly, much more of this amount went to people with household income up to 800,000 U.S., i.e. two BSRBs at that time, so I'll give you an example, or two ASI buddies at that time, with a mean wage. I remember that I had that name in mind. A senator and now the highest. One president that there was natural terror to know that people in this position could increase their wealth. That would be shocking. But, of course, that's the way it is, Madam President, for example. This arrangement has helped many to enjoy tremendous success. It's like the highest. A minister pointed out earlier, the debt of Icelandic households has fallen dramatically. This has even enabled many to make the long - term effort to become unworthy, or very poor in debt. And that's why maybe--so I say my private examination--gracious in the fall when this decision was to be made back. The trend I have seen to be clear in this team is that young people with good income have been able to use this special property to set up a foundation for a down payment on an apartment, i.e. Those who live in a rented home but who live in good terms in other ways have been able to look for the resources. That's why I'm even more happy that this is now being extended, right now by this group, because of this young, well- educated people who at least want to, they're afraid and can settle down in Iceland. True, there is a little more to it than that, and I expect that there will be action on that matter sooner than later, i.e. to heal and reduce the growth that results in young people, many of whom do not trust to move home after foreign studies. It is understandable in itself when you see the ideals that people live in, e.g. in Denmark and Norway, on the mortgage and on how that system is built up. Then, in itself, you can understand that people don't want to come home - as ugly as it is - and work for an Icelandic bank for 40 years. You totally understand. That's why we could use ideas. They're saying west of America, "If it's not broken, you shouldn't fix it." In this case, i.e. with this operation, nothing had to be done. Nothing was broken, so they did not have to cancel it at the time. Now, as I say, I'm going to say this in advance about this moral problem of the government, to want to come, like a freedom army into a hearty debate at a delicate point, throwing caramels at the crowd. To say that, I hope that this matter goes through the council quickly and at ease. The Economic and Business Committee, which I expect to take this case down, will be handled well and more carefully, and this bill will be legaled right now in spring so that there will be conjunction in this operation. That they will be able to turn this bill into law before the present mandatory law expires. As a result, I am the highest. The secretary of finance to pay attention to other issues presented by the Central Party. Actually, I heard from him today that he was, like, a... don't be distracted by what we would like to suggest about the fact that Kingdom workers can work longer than 70 years of age, which I consider to be a lot of justice and sense. As mentioned in the case of the Supreme Minister himself, it is forbidding people to work a month after 70th of their natural waste of valuables, waste of energy and knowledge - something we can't afford. So if it's the highest. I know that the secretary of finance would now take a look at us middle-class crew and find things that can be done right with us. We are not hurt if someone accepts a case that we have been offering. We have no sign of these matters, and we want them to come out and be land and people for good. So I'm the highest. A minister to consider quite a number of other matters presented by the middle class. Since I mentioned the subject that was being discussed today, even though I have come out of the box just a little bit, i.e. The work of diplomas from 70 to 73 years of age cannot be ignored by referring to the practical suggestions made by the middle - class members in December for the financial debate that employment does not dishonor pension income, which is the key to the working of such a law. But as for this matter, I reiterate my pleasure, and I know that we middle-class members will be doing well at the highest rate of the year. Minister and government to legalize this case as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u118	Madam President. I'd like to come up here and celebrate the fact that this bill has been shown to be an extension of special property savings for the next two years. This project has achieved tremendous success and is a very important part of a special policy that we want to build in Iceland, and the Independence Party represents. That's an enormously important element. The report shows that 56 billion have been saved through this system, which has been said to be in the host case in 2014◯2018, and 12.8 billion in the past year. Since these are 23,000 people, 400,450,000 went away. in an individual to buy shelters through this system last year. I think it's got the most successful operation for a very long time to build up a special property in a place in Iceland. I'm gonna have this quick, and I'm gonna come in. I am so happy that the bill has been released. These measures have helped individuals much in recent years and will continue to do so over the years with what is presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u119	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the law of a special tax on a financial enterprise. Specific taxes in Iceland are among the highest among the countries we would like to compare with. This has had a negative impact on the competitiveness of Icelandic companies, as well as on which the common people have enjoyed a more adverse growth than they are walking and going in the countries around us. The bill of this suggests that the changes in the above laws involved in the reduction of currency by four steps over the years 2020/2023, according to the last three budgets of the government. You see, in the last three schedules, we have assumed that this tax would gradually decrease during this period. The bill is being presented here in the spring until the year 2019 to legalize it in the future. If the regulations of the bill are to be met by the law, the review will be given to a lower currency rate to continue at 0.1-45%, since 2023, with a pay rate available today in 0.37%. So, it's down in phases during 2020-2023. The bill meets the criticism of various people. It also follows indications in the White Book on a vision of financial vision that highlight the reduction of specific financial taxes as the most clear opportunity of the State to reduce growth. A decrease in the bank tax would be expected to provide financial expenditures to reduce interest and/or raise the interest in customers, but this change would improve the survival of corporate households and environment. The changes proposed in the bill will reduce the tax pay of the state's funds from what would otherwise have occurred in 2020/223 by 1.6 billion dollars. to start with the 2020 income year, then step by step up to 7.75 billion dollars. During the 2023 income year. The reference to these figures suggests that budgetary companies can be set aside to reduce the cost. The companies, then, are all free of this taxation, and it may be expected that the change will be more economicly paid for the clients of the banks and other financial companies. A respectable president. I'm not going to make any further cases about this bill. I'd like to mention, though, that there are other points in the White Book on a vision of the future for the financial system that really matters. One of these cases is the deposit price and we already have another bill to lower that price. It would also increase financial resources to offer customers better terms. Other factors mentioned in this context focus on the financial system of things. We have them in a relative way today, rightly, because of our economic situation, but the point is that we need to be careful not to adjust the demands of our own money in the banking system so that they do not agree well with our individual situation and prevent the bank and other financial companies from fulfilling the vital role they are meant to play by being overly aggressive. So the assets and financial rules are very important in this context, but the factors that concern the money itself are called on to deal with the risks involved in how much money must be tied because of certain types of loans and also have considerable impact. For the sake of financial companies, it has been claimed that we are in the risk assessment principle with relatively strict criteria in Iceland today. I don't think that's unusual, given the position we've just come out of with an enormously high levels of disparities in the banking system, but it's all about to change. We need to keep on the watch for indications that could reduce growth in the Icelandic financial system, thus benefiting directly from companies and households. The matter we have in our hands is of that kind, and I think it's a good thing to let it take effect as soon as possible, i.e. making a decision to reduce the tax, and there is a valid time to determine how the steps will be taken in this material. A respectable president. So I've finished my case and suggested that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u120	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Here's a suggestion to lower the bank tax, and I've said before that it has been a special interest in this government to reduce bank payments. These are not the only expenditures currently to be reduced but have already been reduced to the SEC, and it is then to reduce the budget to the deposit fund, i.e. the deposit insurance fund. What I wanted to establish is that this tax was set up to cover the expenses of the Icelandic government and Icelanders for the collapse of the bank. It was exactly the banks that came Iceland and Iceland into the bad spots, as we all know and have to pay back. Before this tax is reduced or removed, basic questions need to be answered. It takes e.g. to answer whether the United States has been reimbursed what it issued because of the collapse with interest and risk factors. It also needs to be said whether the Icelanders got back what they had to put out because of the fall of banks. It would be informative to receive answers from the highest level. The secretary of finance whether the State has received what it ordered for the crash and for the growth and risks and whether the Icelanders have received back what they had to put out because of the collapse of banks. These are basic questions that need to be answered when reducing this tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u121	A respectable president. We have several assessments of the government's direct donations to restore the domestic financial system. The Kingdom's efforts and efforts for financing have been calculated, and people have concluded that we have recovered and are well beyond the direct cost of the State. Now I can't say what the underlying crop was done in those calculations, I just can't remember it, or how high the risk pressure should be, but I believe that the result would be good for some additional growth and potential risks. This is a situation that has arrived even. Because the government financed the Bank of Lands, then took over an additional share in the bank when the deposit given was paid, and the Lands Bank has paid over 100 billion in profits from that time. The rest of the banks have also paid money to the State, but as far as they can remember, the government took on stability, which is of utmost importance in this bigger picture, and inside Iceland. When calculating these things, there must be some basis for the worth of those assets. I think it's a lie. And I'd like to add it to the end here that we must not forget that when we're subsidizing taxes, we still have two of the biggest banks, and I don't think they're going to be worth it. In fact, it would be interesting here in a committee's work to be calculated, perhaps to get the Bank County to have the opinion of how much banks go up just to be free from the tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u122	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I cut by the highest. In his talk, a minister said that it might be expected that this would result in a more favorable outcome for the business and the public. The antiquities of the banks, when they have discussed this tax, are that this is a bad tax and that tax decline will result in lower charges and loss of interest. I must say, Madam President, that I don't trust the banks to return this reduction, that the register will come to lower and that interest will come back to lower. I think it is simply a law that this will lead to more profits at the banks, and the cost will in fact not be reduced. Then you ask yourself: " Would it not have been possible to demand some kind of charge on the banks that when this tax is reduced, they must face it to the public rather than simply to share more profit and more money? It would be nice to have the highest attitude. Secretary to do this. Don't we have to have some guarantees, rather than something oral, that cost and interest will come about by reducing this tax that the banks have been complaining about for a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u123	A respectable president. There are two things I would like to mention in response to those words. On one hand, I would like to refer to a white book on the future of the financial system in which taxation is specifically explained and compared with taxes laid on similar banks in neighboring countries. It's a very striking comparison. Clearly, we stand out as different. That in itself is not surprising because of that, such as why. A senator previously traced this tax into the situation that we decided to pay off the banking system to restore the amount of expenses that had fallen on the state fund because of the fall of banks. No one should be surprised because this tax is very special and does not exist elsewhere. But we believe it's time to let him disappear. In fact, minor taxes are followed in spite of this massive reduction, yet they are greatly remembered when everything is taken together. Then there is the question that you understand very clearly, and it is only natural to wonder: Will the banks return this to the customers? The only guarantee we have of this is that it's going to happen because of competition. We need to make sure that this becomes available to businessmen and that the market for these substances works. We all have tremendous amounts of money that will happen. I point back to the other thing I mentioned earlier that we have two of the three big banks with skin and hair, in fact, a small thing in the Bank of America's employees. [[The president calls.]] Only by reducing these laws will the value of these part of the government be greatly increased. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u124	A respectable president. We're talking about the multi-talked bank tax. In very rare cases this woman has appeared and expressed herself in his case. I've thought the emphasis was wrong. To reduce the income of the state's budget by 7 billion dollars. if we lower this bank tax? I feel that the banks are all grueling to pay it even if it's special. I also believe that there is a lot of doubt in the premise, as we have seen, whether consumers will ever enjoy it if the banks get rid of 7 billion in the form of a government tax payment. I believe that we could use this budget much better in our interiors and to meet the problems in our community, poverty, and so forth. It's enough to take as high as possible. Financial and economic ministers know. Then comes the question: How were the interest rates before the bank tax? Was there something softer on their Icelandic loans? I don't have any memory to do that, I'm sorry. So I say, we've actually got to put on interest, especially before the bank tax. So I see no reason to believe that we consumers of this country will be especially rewarded in the role of a bank market competition, which is especially marked by a total flag competition. I don't think what you look at between banks is 0.00%, something like that, when you look at interest, whether it's in-and-out interest. Clearly, then, the market is not highly competitive. I think it's most exciting that we can get ourselves a foreign bank to come down here and make a real competition. It would be a little exciting to me, and then we could see how things developed. In view of everything that has happened, I'd like to reiterate that I don't think there's any reason to even fantasize that the interest on consumer credits will go down despite the fact that banks will be entitled to 7 billion bucks. which they do not have to pay into our common fund. That's what I'm saying. I have nothing more to say about it. I felt compelled to mention this as one of the things I consider wrong in the priorities of the government. I don't think it's right to lower this tax, at least. This is not the right time for us now when we have just received a new national forecast that shows conclusively that despite the smootherness of landing than we were afraid of, there is a recession here. We're gonna lose interest, 2.7%, minus 0.2%. The economy has given us hope immediately next year, but that does not change the fact that we are sailing through a certain surfer. Therefore, I insist that this certainly doesn't seem right for me to put my priorities first. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u125	President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in food law, No. 93/1995, with subsequent changes, antibiotic use. The movers are members of the Central Party. The matter in itself is not enormously complex. The bill is as follows: - Uh-huh. - After 1 5 C.E. God's Word, the Bible, is inspired by God's Word, the Bible. track No. 93/1995 - ◯ A new article will be considered in paragraph 15. a, as follows: Companies with a small sale of food should ensure that consumers have access to information on food source and the average use of antibiotics for the production of food in the country. The feeding centre shall provide yearly guidance on the provision of information on the exchange of antibacterial use for food production. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ The report reads: The objective of the bill is to improve the exchange of information on antibiotic use in the production of food to consumers. This ensures that consumers are informed about the average use of antibiotics in the production of food in the source of food products offered for sale in grocery stores and can base their decision on the choice of food products in that source. At the beginning of 2017, the World Health Organization (WHO) published a list of antibiotic resistant bacteria, which were classified by the Agency as 12 family of bacteria by risk categories. In the fall of 2019, the Agency warned that earth's inhabitants are running out of useful antibiotics and encouraged the development of new drugs. The director of the Agency, Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus Ghebreesus, declared on September 20, 2017 that there was an emergency developing in the treatment of patients with antibiotic resistance. A new EU report from February 2019 shows that resistance to the strains of antibiotics at the risk of gonorrhea, which is the second most common sexually transmitted disease in the EEA. A British report on antibacterial treatments for bacteria shows that some 700,000 people die each year from such bacteria. On April 12, 2017, a group returned which a health - care minister ordered measures to reduce the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria in Iceland. The report includes the following: that antibiotic use in animals in this country has been one of the lowest globalities. In this country, the prevalence of antibiotic resistance has been considerably lower than that in neighboring countries. The work group and the British report discuss the importance of increasing public awareness of the risks associated with the use of antibiotics. The report also suggests that the use of antimicrobials in animals, including animals, will be implemented with a wise implementation of antimicrobial policies. they will be instructed on how to use them wisely. Although the use of antibiotics and the risk of antibiotic-resistant bacteria have been extensively discussed, the overall policy has been lacking. The European Medicines Agency provides a yearly report on the sale of antibiotics for use in 30 Member States. This report provides information on the use of antibiotics in the main import countries of Iceland. It is necessary to increase public awareness of the content of the report, as there has been a great lack of public information about the use of antibacterial agents in the production of food. If the public has access to this information at commercial stores, consumers can decide which countries they buy food based on official information about the use of food antibiotics. A respectable president. This report, I think, explains just how well it is to be on the move by the bill. It is primarily to increase public awareness and provide public information about the goods available to them. This may have been needed, but especially now, when Iceland's security felt that it did not have to import raw unheated meat at its time. Especially now is it important to increase education to the public about the difference between products available. Of course, it is not necessary to say that Icelandic products are not excluded from being included in this information, and they are already in these EU reports. This may lead to a brief discussion, a respectable president, that we need to look overall at how we can channel information to consumers. Besides, there is a possibility that there might be an even clearer understanding of the meaning of food today, i.e. Source label. Today you need to look for people who want to see if the product is the source of Icelandic, German, Danish, or anything. This could be done more clearly by e.g. red base and yellow font or something so that people could see it, and of course it would apply to Icelandic goods. Then you might think of the obligation of those selling these products to put the entire set of origins on the package, i.e. where the animal is born, slaughtered, worked, so on. Not just the slaughter or manufacturing site. It is also necessary to look to the issue of action, as it has been given to Congress, to map the carbon lines of the product we use, and to publish information on, for example. Food in stores, about the carbon lines of the food they eat, what they are. We can picture vegetables, a carbon track of vegetables in the Southland a source of carbon - based vegetables that is transported from Africa or somewhere from Europe, differences may exist there, and may want consumers to buy products where this is important. Then there are the names of the Icelandic flag goods. Well, I think I'm right, selective. And it may be strongly said that there is some obligation. I'm not suggesting it here but I wanted to throw it up, but it might be a little steep. Finally, Mr. President, I believe it is also possible to wonder if we would like to reveal the kind of store behind the product. Whether the beef we buy in shops comes from some huge factory house where the cattle are centuries under certain conditions or from a small family farm in Iceland. It may also matter when a person chooses what he or she buys for food. At the very least, it is important to start the process by informing consumers about it, and the bill is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u126	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize social security laws, No. 100/2007, i.e. up the pension. Transporters plus me are the rest of the United States of America, seven senators. We are 1st. par.saying, 'With temporary regulations in the law, a new number will be added, as follows, 'During the regulations of the 69th par.' shall improve social security, as well as payment according to the 63rd st. and budgets according to 22nd. g., increase according to generalised increase in the lowest remuneration per biographer contract of 2019◯2022. 2.g. It reads: This law already comes into force. The bill in the same line was presented for the Council of 145th, but it was not granted. The case is now submitted by changes taken into account by newly signed labour agreements signed on a general labour market, signed on April 3, 2019, and the corresponding changes in logic in reporting. This bill suggests that the GDP will follow the trends of the lowest remuneration bill in accordance with collective agreements and will be 390,000. in the year 2022. The expenditures are cumulatively increased to 2022 in a parallel manner and in terms of minimum pay per collective agreement. The goal of the bill is that older people and the poor get decent payment. Clearly, a group of elderly and desperate people live in poverty. In fact, according to the recent research of Haust Iceland, less than one quarter of disability is experienced by the lack of material goods and is scarred by the majority when participants qualify for employment. Since 1998 the growth of human farming has been under way 59.4% according to figures that have remained for the topic group of Iceland's Embarrastic Community. The situation is now that thousands of pensioners do not meet minimum pension criteria and therefore receive special supplementation, i.e. Those who are entitled to it. Key to the proposed elevations in the bill there are increases in the labour agreements between the Work Programme and the Work Programme Association from April 3, 2019 to 2022. The contract consists of a gradual pay increase during the contract period and a minimum pay rate of 390,000. in a month, 2022. According to collective agreements, minimum pay was increased to 317,000 dollars. month 1st April 2019, the number to rise is 73,000. in addition to the year 2022. The promotion of social security in a financial program is far from reaching the previously diagnosed goals. Minimum implementation insurance for micro-efficient recipients and rehabilitation units is 247,183 k. for those who are not given household chores. The maximum amount of life with all related payments is $310,800. per month. Clearly, many do not reach that amount. Therefore, Madam President, the amount is suggested to be developed in the following way: that on April 1, 2018, which may be fully prepared, it will be 317,000 dollars. in a month, April 1, 2020, it will be 341,000. every month, January 1, 2021, it will be 365,000. on January 1, 2022, it will be 3,900,000. per month. Thus, only the first increase would have to be retrospective for a few weeks. In addition to the proposed changes, it is quite clear that there is a need to reduce the impact of income restrictions on special pensions, sometimes referred to here as a dollar against a dollar's impairment, which is laid down in social assistance laws, No. 99/2007. Changes in the amount of money according to the bill are expected to be published in regulations. Madam President. There are examples of the decision made by these groups in terms of negotiations. It was, for example. conducted in 2011 when the Council of that time raised payment to the groups in accordance with the collective agreements then. If anyone wants to point out that it is now working to get along with them, I would point out that experience shows that it will go way too slow. V.E.G. One and a half years ago, the prime minister said that these were just groups that were not to be waited and that they were not to wait. So here we are meeting the leader of the government. I suppose there will be an easy case in most categories to settle for the case and to ensure that these indeed troubled groups are much in them at least, receiving the same increases as being given to those on the lowest public salary level, otherwise it is clear that they will still be reduced. Madam President. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be referred to the welfare committee for quick but careful and further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u127	President. I just wanted to support this great Senate case and to say that there is no need for poverty to be felt to the same extent in modern society, a technological society as rich in natural resources as Iceland. The elimination of poverty is an investment in the future. We can no longer afford to be part of the decadent ideologies that the community has to be financed and supported by the rich and powerful with the hope that their wealth will one day go down to the civilian population. We need to build on the foundation and to make sure that people receive a decent salary is part of it. As economist Charles Kenny put it so well, saying: The big reason poor people are poor is that they don't have enough money. So it should not be surprising that a good way to reduce this problem is to give money to these people. It seems very obvious. For some reason, people are reluctant to understand the importance of making sure that people have enough money to make ends meet. Because the extinction of poverty is of utmost importance to society and will save us all too much time. Poverty is an overwhelming animal. I look forward to having this case for the treatment of the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. Logi For his harsh conduct in this matter of need, Remarkable May Ira, the son of EinarssonMár on his behalf. I agree with both of those who before me have spoken, or why. A senator and a what. Chairman of the Halldóra Mogensen welfare committee. The suggestion of this bill is, in fact, simply following up a current right that hasn't been done for years. In very rare cases, I have been standing here pointing out the dreaded injustice that all of them have had to live with who are getting paid from the social security system. It is really quite remarkable that we have social security legislation that is so obvious, as shown in page 69. Their law, be repeated in violating the rights of those who should be protected by their law. As far as the biographies deal is concerned, I support my natural mind. Of course, these groups of society for which we are at war, groups that are held in a poverty trap, groups that do not make ends meet - you would have wondered how in the world these groups are simply left behind. Of all the people in the community, they are the poorest of our brothers and sisters, left behind. As long as most others reap some better compensation, they do not. So I support the whole mind of this bill. I support my whole mind to reform those who are now visible and who have had a walk under a new lifetime contract, to walk over to the poorer, older people, and everyone who enjoys their contribution to the social security system. I'd like to count the smallest detail of the 69th floor. where, in fact, 2 mg. There are no doubt that the social security system should be revised in terms of the fact that pay will never increase less than the pay of the country at any time. Instead, the State government has actually made good use of this support principle in the article that says: No less than a consumer science number can be raised. That is exactly what the government has done. For years it has been based on the index of consumer prices. The difference from 2011 in terms of these two dierent prices versus pay development in the country is probably, a respectable president, well more than 30% in this period, which is the smallest of our brothers and sisters who need to take advantage of the system of social security. I have also proclaimed it here more than once or twice that we want to test the legal nature of these individuals in court. We don't think so. So as soon as I support my mind and encourage a welfare committee to push the Union case and drive the things that are moving through a welfare committee, we are always going to have the things that are right now. In an effort to test the 69th grade, the State is being sullied. and how the government, as I have said, has had an abuse of power against these social groups who are really under attack and who are struggling to bear hand in hand for their heads. That is why I am particularly grateful for what I really think this discussion has been given to grow and thrive here in the High General Assembly, and I believe it is not least for the fact that the people's party, fully organized, is just desperate, as the man said. We know exactly what we're talking about. We have been proclaiming how we have had to fight for our existence. So it is not difficult for us to put ourselves in the way that is too much, too many of us fellow Christians and sisters are now following. So I say, as long as we keep going and just keep going and don't give up, I don't believe that it's as far as we can get rid of the most desperate poverty. All that has to be done, as I've always said, is just want. It's a will, everyone's organization. And I also want to believe that there is really no senator in this room who is not prepared to pay for the fact that we really deal with and help the most in need of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u129	V.E.G. President. I'm here with a story for a bill to legalize the change in child protection laws in terms of laws and penalties of illusion and limitation of society. The bill of this material was presented to a Council of 146, but it was not granted them. Now it is brought back with a slight change. This is an additional 98 C.E. The child protection laws. The main change is that the new article sounds like: A parent, or anyone who has a right to conduct a court of law, a court of law, a parental judgment, or their agreement confirmed by a businessman to partake of or limit his social rights, has to do with fines or prisons up to five years. The violation of this law is only a public investigation, with the exception of child protection to the police. This may be the major change from the first bill, as well as from two parents, one who has forbearance and one who is close to each other if it is a parent's goal or if he is able to get a chance to see the parent. There is, for example, no disagreement on the matter according to Article 1. Child-in-law and 7th degree. The United Nations Children's Covenant has the right to recognize and associate both parents. That's the child's right. 46th. Child law is specifically stated that a child has the right to associate regularly with his parents for whom he or she does not live, and when parents do not live together, both have the responsibility to take the steps to make sure that this right is respected. The reason for putting so much emphasis on child's rights and the obligation of parents in the law and in the children's covenant is that it really matters to the child's well - being. There is hardly any disagreement in this room or in the general community. Taking away the child's right to associate with both parents is neglect. 98th. The child - care system says that those who neglect a child spiritually so that it puts the life or health of a child at risk should be punished. Studies show that a child who is deprived of the possibility of communicating with a parent can become emotionally and spiritually difficult for the future, especially if he has grown up with that parent for some time. Therefore, it is important to neglect a child involved in the illusions or limitation of sexual relations with a child who is being treated by a child as a second degree of neglect and/or violence to a child. That's what this is all about. Although the lawgiver has in a somewhat clear way viewed the right of a child to contact both parents, it is of great importance to its well - being that existing laws do not guarantee the child's rights. Hence, such a bill is essential. It is suggested to be added to the 98th grade. children's protection system, which I traced earlier, makes it clear that such barriers, or limitation, are disturbing to the well - being of a child and therefore will be punished. By means of penalties, the view that illusions, or limitation, are a violation of parental obligations. The wording of the law is comparable to that used in child - law terms to hinder association, though the change is not relative to the baby's household fixed, and can therefore be based on a definition of comments to the bill that legalized a child's law on day - to - day fines and guise. An illusion points to the behavior of a parent to prevent a child from being exposed to the other parent, e.g. by keeping a child in a locked apartment when it is due to be picked up, leaving his home with a child, or another place where contact is to begin or end, not bringing a child to a place where the child is to be delivered, or by other means that the decision cannot be made. The above definition suggests that it is really a barrier or limitation of association when a parent makes a decision, a judgment, a judgment agreement, or a contract not to be carried out in one way or another. Here it is important to bear in mind that this is almost exclusively a conclusion, whether the courts, the governments, or the parents themselves, that there is no concern with the relationship between parents. To meet the criticism given to the bill at the time of the 146th legislature, the Council of Justice is now taking charge of the police only through the child - welfare authorities. If something has come up, something new that was not at the time of a decision or a judgment or a contract or something, then it is in the hands of a child - welfare authority to appreciate it. So this is a key to making peace with someone, and then, of course, that it counts in both ways, whether for a parent's custody or for a parent's community, that it is not just one of the parents'decisions to say, "Well, now it's not going to be part of me that I really appreciate it myself or that it's not for the child's best. It does not happen that way, and nowhere in civilized lands, there is just some decision and that they really have bullying and freckles. So it's being made clear by law that it's a violation against a child, which I don't think anyone will say no. And we violate where a child's health is put at risk, we do well to use wood laws and repairs that could endanger or endanger a child's health. This is the key to the bill. I would be surprised to learn that the bill as it is now taking some form of opposition, for I think everyone who has worked in these matters and knows them to some extent, that there are many problems that are not at the conclusion of courts, not that governments or agreements between parties and people have been able to get away with it for months, years, and even decades, to ignore this right child's rights. It will not be a pleasure. Of course, society has changed. It has become a lot more common than it used to be for parents to separate. As a result, more such issues arise, as one parent gets away with no problems that seem to hinder association or limit one's life. The commission stated that between 2007 and 2016 there were a number of such cases on the demand for day - to - day application that clearly did not work and a number of decisions made. We're talking about 550 counts of daylight. There are probably a lot more illusions than this 550, for not everyone is necessarily demanding a day's fine, perhaps not seeing great interests in it, either for the child or for the party. Me and other transporters feel that this is an important step in ensuring this right child, ensuring that the child will not be treated with this kind of violence rather than any other violence, so here is also a normal addition to the 98th paragraph. The child - protection laws, which are taken out of all doubt about violations and penalties.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u130	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the tour. There are a few questions that arise on this tour, perhaps from the devil in all of it. In 1st. It is said that violations of this law are only a public investigation involving the child's child protection to the police. Now, child - care committees have been very reluctant to enter a social issue, as they call it, so child - welfare committees do not come to the issue where parents argue about social matters. Then you wonder what you're doing. A senator and those on this bill imagine that child protection can come into the matter and report to the police when child protection refuses to come to it, examine it, and see if there is any reason why a child is not involved. Now it shall be noted that I do not view it as an illusion when a parent, of any generation, is to protect his child from violence. There are other things. However, children's protection has not wanted to get to them. Well, it's pretty complicated to let this be the case with my child's protection to the police. Second, I'd like to ask what. A senator joins in the company and rejoices that both parents are accepted, both the parent who is a member of the club as well as the legal guardian, for this has nothing to do with custody. But now I wonder, for in all the children's laws, they always associate with their parents, not with their parents, but with their parents: Is it not necessary to change the wording of the bill somehow so that it harmonizes with other laws involving children?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u131	V.E.G. President. There's a misunderstanding. A senator says it's a social issue. It says in particular: They have been resolved. Prescientity and companionship have been resolved. So this is not a matter of child - protection issues. A person simply does not follow a conclusion made. There may be new grounds, changed circumstances from the decision - making process, a decision made, or a contract made. That is why it is appreciated by a child - welfare authority. If there are no new criteria, e.g. Violence or anything like that, the Children's Protection Authority is charged. That's the point. It's no more complicated than that. Senator. It is true that these situations may arise that the head of society believes that a parent who is a guardian will use some form of violence and refuse to return the child. That is why this change is happening. She is not opposed to anything. Because of circumstances they believe justifying the parent's care, the parent of the company does not provide the child with a parent's care. Of course, child - welfare authorities would do well to check, just as they were on the other side, whether such accusations are valid, or whether there is reason to believe. It's just a fraction like so many other offenses, like a piece of violence. We deal with this as well as with all other offenses against children. I don't understand the trouble with that. They're incomprehensible to me. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u132	Madam President. I'm afraid the senator thought that the senator who stands here held everything else and gave a whole different speech than she did. There's a big misunderstanding in the answer to why. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. There is no way to talk about illusions if there is no verdict, judgment, or contract. Then it's not an illusion, because there's no deal. Then no matter where you handle such a case, you need to start by trying to reach a partnership. Otherwise, it's not an illusion. The lawyer should know. Senator. This is a complete twist. Second, it is as simple as a child - protection factor, so that when there is a disagreement about giving a child, he is a close - knit person. That is why protection from children has not wanted to enter into it. It interprets child protection. In fact, a letter from the Children's Institutes of Child Welfare has been sent to the Children's Health Committee not to interfere. I agree completely that when a parent, whether a legal parent or a caregiver, he means to meet his other parent for no reason, it means violence in itself. I couldn't agree more. That's what a senator does. I'm looking at the project, however, what it's like to do. How does the senator imagine that a child - welfare committee who refuses to make a decision should address this case with the police, when child protection refuses to bring up such matters? I'm just pointing out there are things in the bill that don't go up in the praxis. I want to challenge it. A senator coming along with me to try to fix the system, fix the whole system, from a businessman to child protection, and all the things I've talked about so many times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u133	V.E.G. President. I think we're talking about our issue. That children's protection does not get involved - this is not a business dispute. You can make it... [[Up front.]] When it comes to judgment, to call it a matter of controversy because one side does not intend to do it - there is no quarrel, that is violence. Children's Protective Authorities are under obligation here that if they violate these laws, and that is specifically defined as what guise is and limitation of association is, children's protection does not say: we do not participate in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u134	She will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u135	It's not working. Can children's protection only be said when major physical harm or violence comes to her: No, we do not participate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u136	It's like that...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u137	That has nothing to do with us? This is not the case, for children are legally protected and protected by the care of children. If she does not, there is a great deal to do about it. It may have to, I don't know. But this is very clear in the law and does not get in my way, although it may get in the way of some child - care organization. But it's very special then. It's very special if officials say, " I'm not involved in this sort of thing. ' Then let's go together, then. A senator, in a significant surgery and a review of all of that. But I can't think of a second when officials do that. I don't believe it. Yet, I have seen things, so this may not be completely preposterous. The senator. To me, it's a very simple matter. If it is an illusion, you need to intervene. If that's how the Child Welfare Committee says: "No, I'm not involved - we need to change it again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u138	Madam President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Ermur Níelsson has previously discussed a bill similar to that given to this council, in fact, during a second term, if I recall correctly. But my questions to what? In many ways, a senator is completely the same as they were then, because while the bill has certainly changed, it has not changed to the extent of what I read from the bill anyway. Senator, turns to the right of parents, i.e. The right of children to associate with both parents, with whom I take my heart. But now, like then, the bill cannot explain how it helps children's quality rights to their parents to put one of them in jail for illusions. I think it is paradox and contradiction in itself that if one parent hinders the bioavailability of the other person, the right solution to imprisoning it is the parent and thus hinders the child's access to that parent - on the part of the government. I might concentrate last year on why. A senator does not find reasons to examine other solutions, and if he does not find a certain contradiction in speaking about child - care rights to both parents, he intends to use the government to limit contact rights to one parent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u139	V.E.G. President. This is a very strange question to me. If we believe that a parent violates a child, to harm the child, we all agree that it is the law to do so. This does not stop your child from associating with the parent who is responsible for responsibility. There's a lot of parents in jail. But this is not to put parents in jail.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u140	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u141	This is so that parents are responsible. All of us must be responsible for any misbehavior, illegal conduct. They're turning things on their heads like this. I have to say, I don't know what is behind such opposition. Does this have anything to do with the sexes? Does this have anything to do with where you're looking? She did it a little bit. I was asked, "Do you want to put mothers in jail? " Fathers are mainly in prison today, see? This is a very strange discussion. That's all I'm saying. In many places, when a person violates a child in this way, he carries a penalty that may often include guilt, usually of course. Or the point I consider most important in this, simply removing the parent's right to custody, e.g. If, naturally, prescient parents are simply deprived of custody and are only in need of rules of conduct, as the other parent had to do before he or she had to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u142	Mr. President. There's still a why. A senator in answer to something quite different than what he is asked of. At least I asked. Not to a senator whether he wanted to put mothers in jail. However, I asked him if he would not have a specific paradox in talking about the social rights of both parents, and the next time, he talked about just a rather heavy prison punishment, considering everything. Whether he felt that he had no paradox about limiting his associations. He may disagree with me that there is a perplexing question, good and good, and continue falsifying what is behind these questions. But I think these matters are pretty twisted. I feel that their treatment so far has shown that there is a wide pot broken. There was a lack of capital, a lack of expertise, better lawsuits, better training, and clearly better education for the county bodies on how to handle these matters. Similarly, only a general view of how to handle illusions is missing. I also feel that this bill is missing. A senator of some kind, some sort, for the illusion of self-defence to the child. So I wondered - and actually just repeat the same question that I asked. The last member of the council when he proposed this case - whether it had been preferable to propose a synonym to have a comprehensive assessment of what was missing, to place her experts in that matter, working out a somewhat more difficult bill than that. There seems to be a senator capable of bringing us in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u143	V.E.G. President. This bill is extremely careful and simple. This, like other offenses against children, is the same as other forms of spiritual violence, or something that endangers the child's life and health. It's not that complicated. There doesn't need an assessment or a Senate arrangement for the Ministry to do something or anything, it's just very simple. It is quite simple that we here admit and dare to admit that in many cases this is a very serious offense against children, but it seems that many people find it extremely difficult to accept it, and they think of it as some woman's rights, to put mothers in jail, it's some misunderstanding that someone will go to jail for the child. Of course, it is not good for any child to have someone in jail. So no one needs to go to prison any way he wants to. All he has to do is follow the rules. Well, that's not the focus. Therefore, this law has been specifically changed now that if any of these events occur, after judging or making peace, or... [[The point is, if not, it's not an illusion...]] That's why I'm saying there's some kind of thing that can come up. Therefore, special attention should be given to the presence of any abnormal barriers. No one's supposed to be better off dead than child - protection authorities. That's why the bill is getting better now than it was. The bottom line is this, and the simplicity and the clarity and the genius of this bill - that we simply acknowledge that it is a violation of the child, that is, the very thing we are not to accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u144	A respectable president. I'm kind of coming back. I just wish. Transporter and associate find happiness in this bill. I also think it's kind of brilliant in its simplicity. The only thing a little bit stabbed me is actually the penalty. He's quite a bed. Five years I'm feeling pretty good at it, but it can be a lot of severity, too. I realize that although the line of punishment is that bed, it would only be used in particularly serious cases. I just hope that we are deeply involved in this matter and meet our children. Certainly, none of us generals who do not know someone who has really had to be seduced by association with his child. Congratulations, what. Senator, and all of you importers. That's a great bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u145	V.E.G. President. Well, thank you for the counterweight. That was a bit of a warm answer that I'm not used to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u146	You just don't know how you're supposed to behave?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u147	No, you don't know how to behave. Hv. A senator refers to the penalty frame. He's distracting a lot of people. But it's just the same penalty as the child protection Act. If, of course, someone uses a child with spiritual violence, it can have a very bad effect. That's why it's like this, like in any other case. This same line of punishment is in fragments that are far less aware of me. So the reason he's doing this is simply not in conflict with the law itself. That's the only reason he's the same. Of course, this does not mean that people will go to prison at the first time. It doesn't happen that way. And everybody knows who's working on this. But if there are any disciplines, over and over again, there may come to some penalties in the end, for men will not listen, in spite of repeated offenses. It's just like any other series of offenses - which I think is much less of a offense. It can mean custody. Of course, it may be. paritaprevir Helga Vala says that the whole system may need to be examined. I'm not going to disagree. I worry about its impotence - and lack of ability mainly. But I think it has a lot of preemptive value and that it does not cause such abuse to happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In fact, I don't really have anything to add my complimentary speech here. I understand the purpose of the penalty frame, even though I realize that it will put a little bit in his eyes. But I'm just saying, I don't have anything else to say. That's a great bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u149	Mr. President. We'll again discuss a bill to legalize the change in child protection law. Because again it stops. paritaprevir armoured Níelsson's son presents his priorities, and at the same time, the priorities of the Independence Party, on a large women's due day here at the council. But it may be said that when it comes to women's rights, it is a rather small day for the Independence Party party. Here we go again. A senator presents this controversial bill about making it a punishment not only for segregation but also a prison protection up to five years. Here, before me, I talked. paritaprevir In Inga Sæland that would be a great bill. I wouldn't agree that it's a great bill. I feel that this is a very sad bill in all respects, and I think it's very, very unattractive, though it is. A senator has made some adjustments since he made that request. In particular, a child's own best interests are unsettled, for it is not intended to protect the rights of children in custody and social matters, but to protect solely the rights of parents and the rights of a particular group of parents. To remind both of them. A senator and others are made clear in Icelandic child - rights to do only what is best for the child, not for the parent, but for the child. For the first thing, there's a bill. A candidate does not find a measured definition of the concept of illusion. Rather, he is trying in some way to explain it by means of the bill. In addition, the term is added to a limitation, which is also not clearly determined in the currently discussed bill. True, there is no clear definition of illusion in any law, whether in child protection or in any other law. Today and before, there is no clear definition of illusion or illusion or limitation. Rather, it is referred only to figures that are two years old. That's a lot of good numbers. I'll get them later. So it is possible to say that the criteria for the bill are very limited and that now I wonder as when we discussed a bill. The senator here last. This attempt to explain the illusion has made me feel weak, and it also makes me feel like a total lack of explanation for the concept of limitation. We already have an emergency in the Child Protection Act, which is called a procedure that involves that if a parent as a child continues to interfere with association despite the decision of day - to - day guilt and to - day spending, a judge may insist that the right of a child is to be authorized to make contact with him or her. This means that a child is allowed to be taken out of the care of a parent with whom he lives and brought one or more companions to the parent. Like what? A senator quotes from his report as the times taken for this disaster order were very few, for a total of nine, over a ten - year period, from 2007 to 2016. Sadly, some of these exchanges repeatedly revolve around the same children and parents, who, of course, are very sad. This figure confirms that this maximal issue of government due to contact with the other parent occurs for a number of consecutive times, which is worse. In fact, an overwhelming part of society is blessed with success and companionship without opening up a day - to - day issue. It looks like a dog. The first carrier to be sent to his report. There are few cases of day - to - day stays and extremes where the child is brought under a court order. Unfortunately, there is a heated exchange, but, fortunately, it is far less frequent than the uniform talk of dating indicates. That discussion is very often presented in the media by just one aspect of the subject. How sad, especially for the children involved! This media coverage also does not reflect the reality of the system, institutions and staff working with this delicate group of subjects. As I pointed out earlier, there is already tools and tools that can be used in difficult business. I wondered, " Why do these difficult situations suggest changes in child protection laws? ' There is also a contradiction with that as a matter of course. A senator has said that when he suggests that one parent goes to prison for five years, he feels very guilty that children are missing out on association and seeing another parent. That is somewhat contradictory and completely conflicting. But five years in prison punishment. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland pointed out that although she thought it was a cool bill, the line was pretty high. Yeah, he's tall. Compared with other criminal offenses, this five - year - old is in the rhythm of the 98th grade. child protection laws, which address the most serious offenses against children. Violence, spiritual offenses, and even sexual and physical violence. This bill is actually suggesting that illusions unexplained in the bill match the worst offense we know of in our society against children. That seems to me, Mr. President, to say the least odd. What's best for children in this situation? Is that not a peaceful relationship, stability, and balance between parents? Isn't that some kind of reconciliation treatment? Wouldn't have been better off. A senator is to propose to create a bill for legal action on increased funding for the county service to work on the long delay that parents in divorces and who have to settle their cases have to endure as the county authorities assist them and help them to settle their social issues. Sadly, the average time of the county office in Reykjavík is still highest in the country. This, in turn, is a prime problem. For example, a senator might have been good at what he did. A senator serving a bill to provide additional funding to shorten this waiting period, which may be in accordance with the latest figures of 14◯17 months - 14◯17 months in which people are waiting for their release when it comes to their relationship agreement. That's extremely important, isn't it? A senator, because people have to wait more than a year for their guidance, and they get their own contract. It can sour a lot in many relationships at the time. The law of justice found in this bill is certainly not intended to foster the interests of children. Not one of the northern countries has gone that way with child - protection laws into the court of justice. This has not been done in the other North countries, and yet the issue has been investigated and investigated far more extensively, but in this country, where family and child rights are very strong in the North countries. It even came. conducted in the 2013 Children's Protection Act reviews that none of the Northern countries have been able to do the rights to the court. And there is no evidence that a law of justice, such as five years of imprisonment, contributes to the increased association or protection of children's interests. There are no studies or studies until the order of the test is established. The bill we're discussing right now is contrary to family and child rights in the North countries. I don't agree with what the bill says, that these delicate, complex cases will be put on child protection; they will be, like, the dog. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir came in, and they're going into the paediatric rights of child protection, not on punishment, not on prison punishment, but on child protection, protecting children. You see, the punishment is on the table of the police, the prosecution, and the courts. Perhaps a senator should have known, since he is such a test ball in judicial cases that we are witnessing. Besides, you can't let go, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, to name the homosexual. Because of it. A member of this discussion, such as last one, has come up here and requested all discussion that this has to do with any form of sex friendship. It's just a thread thing to do with him. In this country, however, a common foreview is the most common option of divorce by parents. In some cases, the mother only holds her custody, but for only a few times, the father goes in for custody. Of the 598 divorced parents in 2006-2010, 477 were premeditated; 112 mothers were premeditated against nine fathers alone. This is shown in the interest of the Haustabies of 2017. It also states that two years ago, which are the latest numbers I have found, more than 90% of the children of parents in Iceland who have divorced, lived with their mothers. It is clear, therefore, that this bill is especially directed to mothers because they have custody of children when one parent falls by custody. There's statistics. There's statistics. There's statistics. How do we feel about that? How do we feel that this is a bill directed against mothers on this day? How do we feel about that? I know exactly how I feel about it, but it would be nice to hear more opinions about it than mine. As some have noted, we need to deal with terms of society and custody in a more comprehensive way than in this bill. In the process, we need to focus much more on the treatment of reconciliation earlier and on progressive psychological counseling or family counsel for parents who are divorced. We need to strengthen the administrative facilities in the area of incest, which is in their field of work. We need to secure funding in order to reduce a significant amount of pay-off time for state-of-the-circuit decisions on sexual relations. But as I mentioned earlier, there is an enormous period of waiting for a decision on a social union. [[Up front.]] It would be much more important for parents to understand, much more, than to throw one of their parents into prison. Because this long wait period, which is unacceptable for all, especially the children, is very difficult. The solution is to settle matters in the best of terms. This is once so that when people get a divorce, they are not because everyone is happy or contented. I think we can claim here that authorities should seek every way to assist parents who are going through divorce with children to make peace because it is for the best of the children. It is important to have that clearness. Research shows that many of the children whose parents divorce are subjected to extreme pressures because of parental conflicts, criminal affairs, and social issues. Extreme and long - term custody issues and disputes have a significant effect on children who are subjected to extraordinary pressures, struggles with anxiety, and some cannot look for support. It would have been a real pleasure to see it. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son present a Senate case that would be designed to examine the overall rights of children who need to be exposed to the social and custody issues of their parents and how they could be improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u150	V.E.G. President. Most of this talk had nothing to do with this bill or anything related to it, it's not about social issues. [[For example: Well?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u151	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u152	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u153	Right on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u154	These articles specifically state that they have been solved. They've been taken care of. This was immediately highlighted in this fine talk. A senator and bringing a bill like that on a big day of women's rights. Is this the word "woman's rights " or" sex rights "? I want to ask you why. A member of Congress: When there is a court order for custody and companionship, and one of the parents does not comply, would that not be against the child? No effect? Id of e.g. Yeah. A senator who had custody of a child will suffer if the father, who also has the child, would just not bring it back from association and say: "I believe that a parent who is a guardian, will resort to violence. - Is the scene parent supposed to get away with it without a connoisseur? That would be a remarkable conclusion. It's like that, and so do you. In Denmark, this is viewed as a violation of child protection, but people go a different way; they just take away the child's custody. That plan is always here. There's no need to go to some police charges, but I think that's absolutely the last resort.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u155	Mr. President. Two questions were addressed to me, the first whether this was a women's case. Yes, this is a women's legal case, because according to Iceland's Hausti figures, 90% of children in Iceland who have divorced parents live with their mothers. Other figures also show that when one parent has custody, it is that a number of mothers are at length. This is to answer the first question. To answer the second, which I understood. A senator, Mr. President, would be an option that could be used. We already have resources for the Children's Protection Act. We already have. We have a set of decisions on day tickets, day-to-day spending, and so on, where police come into the home and remove a child to be associated with the other parent. The major operation that police come into a home, removing a child from the home to leave it to another parent, so that a parent can communicate with the child is certainly not unconcerned. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I find it hard to see that throwing one parent into a five - year prison can be a better way to solve their children's problems. A senator says he wants to set things free. If so, how should they communicate? A senator is so concerned that a child should be able to enjoy association with both parents? And then it's supposed to happen just by visits on Little Lava, or how's it supposed to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u156	Yeah, yeah, that's how it happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u157	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator makes this women's rights because 90% of children have a mother's law home. This bill isn't just about those parents. It's about both parents. Then there are probably 90% of parents who do not have a home. Then we can just call it a man-in-law, can't we? It's a total confusional debate, huh? Senator. People who are opposed to this bill just have to answer, if they're in opposition to it, and say they're square feet and honest because they don't think they should punish people for this, that it's not a violation, and that it should not be a law against it. But no one dares say it directly. Is it because 90% of women are blocking? Might that be the reason? I'm asking. [[It's not 90% that can block.]] No. But perhaps that is what humans think? What is this illusion? Who is the backup server, and who is the parish servant? I know why. A senator? I know. Of course, it's not about women's rights, male rights, or sex rights. This is about the fact that people follow laws and regulations, not neglect their children, and their rights. It's as simple as that. But here, some people just can't accept it for some reason. I think I just got the answer. First sentence by the dog. This is women's legal case. Therefore, there should be no penalties. That is the clear conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u158	Mr. President. I just don't get any sense of logic. The senator's using it here. There are already repairs in the Child Protective Act, as mentioned earlier in my speech and in my previous answer. There are already children's protection laws on breaking up relationships, broken partnerships. I just can't figure it out. And, yes, it's women's legal business. Because there are many more, far more children, separated from parents who are with their mothers, whose mothers associate with their children. So, yes, that's why I call it a women's legal case, though. A senator would like to call this a man's rights matter. All right, let's just disagree on that. At least I have some numbers to use as a limp as long as I want to. paritaprevir The armoured Brynjar of Níelsson still uses his feelings to back up his case, but not with numbers, research, or research. [[Up front.]] Absolutely at odds with what's common in the North, absolutely at odds with that, perfectly. Here are some strange rules made in the child protection Act, which simply does not apply to what is commonly practiced in the North States in a penal court or in the implementation of child protection law. All right, then. paritaprevir The armoured son of Níelsson refers to this as a male - right case, as a matter of great importance, though over a period of nine years, in total there were nine cases in which the most stringent measures were used to achieve contact. [[I didn't say that.]] [[The president calls.]] Nine cases in a nine-year period. [[The president calls.]] This is all the need. It is the weight behind the contribution of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u159	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm not happy with the way the discussion has developed into the exchange of words. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, and hag. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. I'd like to say at the beginning that I'm one of the carriers of this bill, and I'll see, too, when I read it here that I'm the only woman. Actually, I think it must be just a coincidence, because I was going to ask him why. A senator's explanation of how she could make this a women's case, as well as her stand. I don't think we're talking about women's rights, male rights, or equality - mainly the rights of the child. We are discussing the exceptional situations, just as we discussed earlier in our hot discussion. We are in exceptional situations when parents cannot get together at first, and an outside party has to make a decision on how to get involved, or that parents break the agreement they have already made. I'm pointing that question to why. A senator whether she agrees with me in that it is the right of a child to meet both parents regularly and to deal with the parents. And I also reiterate what happened in the previous answer, I keep away from it. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, that we are not talking about a case where some violence or something like that is going on. Of course, there are other issues. Besides, I'd like to know, a respectable president, how to do it. A senator could have made it clear that this was some sort of priority of the Independence Party - recommended here on May 13 of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u160	I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I might have expected and would have also wanted to see what it was. paritaprevir To speed up and strengthen the parents in such a difficult situation, the wife of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir would present some bill that would be a more comprehensive solution. With the purpose and primary objective of caring for the well - being of children. We know that relationships and divorce often do not treat children well, much less strife. Children have a loyalty problem. They experience anxiety, need to take their stand, and are in that situation, unfortunately. About the second question, which was... I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm sorry, I didn't quite get the second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u161	That you think this is the priority of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u162	Yes, it's just the series on the Senate program that makes me reason that way. But I am, that I think, have answered it as a matter of course. A senator wondered if this was a women's case. I think so, and I've explained it here in the answers and in my speech, and I have numbers to support my case. But as I say, I have also spoken about it here in my speech, as well as when the case was presented the first time at the 146th Congress, that I would like to see a comprehensive suggestion for release during the council, and it has been presented. I'd like to think so. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has a Synod proposal to shorten this waiting period in the county settlements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that's the best and the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I want to say first that I am now a great equalist and, in fact, I feel that numbers are gone. A senator took about the proportion of parents who have custody or who are legal parents - how high a ratio was? I think she mentioned that 90 percent are there women - I don't think they're particularly good terms based on equality issues. But I now declare again that this matter, as well as other matters related to custody of children, is primarily about the rights of children, not the rights of mothers, nor the rights of fathers. I don't think this is any particular priority of the Independence Party because this case simply comes out of the chronological order and the Congress is in its chronological order. There have been other members of the Independence Party matters that have passed through and have already been approved during this council, and unfortunately it will be considered unlikely that when this case is recommended now, May 13, and very short at the end of the council, it will be given some material discussion within the committee. However, I reiterate that I think it is very important to have such a discussion. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. How vital it is for a member of the body to work on short - term periods and speed up the treatment of reconciliation! In fact, I was saying that a minister had been working on such cases, and there had been some success, though there seems to be a certain discrepancy in how well it works or how bad it works for a businessman. But that's what I'm willing to do and say. A senator and other fine senators are working to do that. I think it's very, very important. But I think I will use the opportunity to improve my viewpoint in this regard. But I would like to mention one thing because an entry is called. I think it must be the worst way to look at a child's rights, that police come into a home to remove a child from the arms of another parent to move over to the other. [[The president calls.]] Of course, such things are not meant to happen and, of course, will happen in extreme circumstances, and we should reduce them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u164	Mr. President. I couldn't quite figure out what the second inquiry was, except what I agree with. A senator said that it would be fine if the percentage of parents with children who are divorced was more equal when it comes to living with their parents. I think that it could be just the best and maybe in a fit of evolution, as it has been in recent years in increasing parental equal rights. But I wasn't saying it was good, just to correct a problem. A senator. It did not appear in my speech or in my words. This is simply a fact presented on Iceland's Hauspút about how many percent of the children of parents who have divorced live with their mothers. And so it is, as quoted above, according to the latest figures - indeed, from 2010 onward - the proportion of mothers whose parents alone had a prescientity against fathers was extremely high, in terms of a low number to fathers. I'm glad to hear it. A senator expressed a steadfast willingness to work out a solution when it comes to shorting a waiting period for divorce by parents who are leaving behind, after getting help with social contracts. Likewise, as I mentioned here and think it would be the best thing to do, giving psychological counseling to parents, and socializing in these difficult situations. I think we could prevent a lot of people... or at least ease the grief that many families go through when it comes to divorce and especially children who go through a grieving process when parents divorce.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u165	Mr. President. I hope the President and the World of Congress forgive me if there's some newcomer at this speech, because it's my first day here, and I'm taking my first step in the platform. But I'm not going to extend the discussion very much. I noticed why. A carrier worked a little tired. [[Up front.]] Still, I wanted to have a few words about it. We know that people who are very dependent on the changes we are discussing today are following the discussion, whether it is on the air or on the future. There was much under the rule of these matters and the suggestions presented here, but also to the extent that many are doing. Parliamentaries have taken part in the discussion. We know that parents who have not been able to enjoy association with their children for some reason, parents who have held back from associating with their children, perhaps for a very legitimate reason, as well as children or adult children who have been in the position that parents have debated about their custody and associations. The problem is, we don't know how many people there are. We do not have sufficient statistics that can tell us how these languages are divided. We know from the child - welfare authorities that so - called illusions are divided into different categories, and they are primarily referred to as unfounded barriers and then as barriers in which parents feel that their children are in danger. We also know that this may be the case, however, for a decision about association that parents hesitate to enforce because of fear of such things. Is that fear unfounded or unfounded? We don't know enough about that. We don't have enough time on the tables. We do know, however, that the female shelter is warning about a bill like this. It was previously said that it had nothing to do with violence, that it was different. But this is not true, for violence, domestic violence, and other forms of violence in close relationships remain relatively constant in this group of languages, i.e. in the few things that end in so much conflict. There are often accusations of violence, sometimes illogical, and even illogical. But this is not why we break down the litigation parties. As noted, the vast majority of such cases end in peace. So it is a very small group that we are actually dealing with with with these suggestions. We know that parental custody upsets the lives of children, and we must do everything we can in these halls to minimize such situations rather than increase them, and parents should not be put in prison without cause. It has also been done on the part of a man. And he that is a messenger, Bristus the Brynjar of Níelsson, is not to be taken together in a controversy where there is a decree. After that, it is likely that disputes will always end with a decision, but that is not so because disputes continue long after decisions are made. We are familiar with examples of the establishment of a new and new subject, walking out of court, and starting a new language. We have an example of this. What matters so much in the seminary is that we deal with the reality out there, not with the Tech discussion of how we think it is or what it should be like, but rather with the reality of what it should be. Here we read that 550 requests for day - to - day benefits had been received. I don't know if it came out over a period of ten years. It must be observed that only 107 cases were agreed on in which such decisions were made. In fact, 450 were rejected. This is one example of a number of cases that are used to treat. Hv. A driver said that the bill had gotten better and that's right, but it's still bad. However, this has been shown during the discussion, we can do much better. It has been discussed with increased reconciliation treatments, and we know that reconciliation has resulted in overemphasic success in the seminary. We know that we need to do better when it comes to violence against women. The system of punishment cannot control it, so we need to do it better. We also know that we need to speed up the matter, that people are waiting for results for even years, and others are not good. But we also need to gain a better understanding of the group of languages, a better understanding of the issues we are considering. I'm going to end it a little wider. We know that there are conflicting ideas on how to deal with problems that might be called social problems. Others believe that the welfare system should be largely done, while others believe that it should be done through the punishment system. These methods are used in some countries, e.g. In the United States, where the justice system has been made a key system of dealing with problems, where parents are imprisoned if their children do not attend school, for it is certainly neglect, even violence against children, not to make sure that they attend school. This is what is done in some lands, parents are imprisoned, and so they take their children's lives away. It's not just sexy, it's also a very strong racial issue. I put myself in the group of those who think we should use the welfare system to deal with this sort of thing, and that's where we can do much better. I'd like to share in that work with the members of the council who have come up in a pita and declared willingness to do better on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u166	Mr. President. First, I want to celebrate the interest of members of the Independence Party, now interested in the affairs of children, while making numerous comments to the bill. I would like to have a word with the members of the council and try to establish a group here at the council in order to cover both child protection and child law, since there are many things to be fixed in the field. First of all, I need to point out what is discussed in the discussed bill and the association. When discussing child - law dating, it is always talking about the rightness of a child to contact with the parent that a child does not live with. That is why this bill can become a very complicated bill, even though we understand exactly what it means, that a child has no clear right to enjoy the company of both parents. But out of law, because we're here lawgiver, when it comes to being a lawgiver, it's not about contact. Being specific and all of that is very tiresome, but we need to be specific when making laws. In itself, this is an unfortunate word in this bill. On the other hand, I am very happy that this experiment is designed to include both parents, i.e. both the law-or-law and the carer's partner. Both are involved, that the parent of society does not destabilize a child, and that a legal parent is deceived. However, before we go any further, I'd like to say that when I talk about illusions, I'm not talking about a parent trying to protect his child and not let him get involved with a parent because of a child's threat to the various reasons, violence, or neglect, drug abuse, or anything. Of course, there are such instances. However, there must be a measure of precision in such primary projections. A lot has now been discussed on social issues, and much has been made to make it appear that there is no quarrel, a dispute of society, in the event of a decision. That's not true at all. The day after the decision is given, or even the day after a contract is passed between parties confirmed by a businessman's law, there may be differences. It's called a social dispute. Who will be allowed to have the baby for the weekend? At the same time, there is a separation or separation issue, the parent cannot consult the businessman by a day's request or try to ask for an introduction unless either a judgment or a valid agreement is made. There is no way to go and say that unless you have papers that have either been negotiated or determined to do business, you can't go out and say that you're being hindered. There is no way to talk about illusions if it is not established how this should be done. It's a little bit of care that I'm guilty of, but littleness is needed when such a bill is submitted. We can just get in the middle of this deal, and it's suddenly turned into law, and it's totally useless, and it can't be used because it's full of some nonsense. We have to be careful. Third, I have pointed it out, pointing it in the opposite direction. Emirates Braun Níelsson that the Child Welfare Committee has spent the past few years at least Refusing to come in when parents argue about socializing, i.e. An experienced parent refuses to give to a child, or when a caregiver refuses to return a child. Why don't I know? I've said many times that I think of cutting the right of a child to a gathering if there's no reason for that, in itself, to be violent against the child. If there's no reason, there's no argument but that a mother has a boyfriend, and it's not safe for the baby or for the father to go up to the cottage one more time - there's just a case in which you can't accept that it's dangerous for a child to take a ride with Dad or a movie with Mom. For some reason, children's protection has not wanted to come to these matters because there are parents sharing relationships, arguing why the child is not returned. I think we can all agree, though, that it is the fundamental right of a child to enjoy a social gathering with both parents. I would also like to wonder, " Why? ' Congress officials who are concerned with this issue do not consider entering the parental law in order to fulfill their responsibilities and possibly some provision that says: " If you don't discharge your duty, you'll have to pay more money. I think that these are the countless situations I've had to deal with in my former line of work, where a parent thought it very unfair that there was no more cohesion with a parent who never met his child and so does nothing. This is something that we may want to consider before going out and doing such a thing. What we should also look at here at the General Assembly and, as I have repeatedly pointed to, this year and last legislation, is the situation in the county's incest department in the capital area and in many different districts throughout the country. A government review issued a report that was a total spanking for the government that joined the county reforms because it was so devastating to do so. There was no question about the case or the way the assignments spread throughout the country, nor was there enough money to follow. The situation today is that new issues, e.g. Communications, new issues that came in early October, six, seven months ago, have not yet arrived for the release of representatives. All this time, there are many children who are not allowed to enjoy association with their parents because the system, and its responsibility, does not work because there is not enough money. No one else is responsible. Why don't we just wrap up the sleeves next week and try to put in a clear budget to prevent this crisis in small children all over the country? I challenge the carriers of this bill to come along with me on this mission because I have been a tiny one screaming out here in the wilderness. Transporters are directors. It would be great to have your help in this. Once this is the case, you also wonder whether there is enough evidence to stop contact. How should these overcrowded representatives of the county determine in an adequate way whether it might be right for violence to exist, whether this suspect is illogical, what is behind them when contact is stopped? I'm afraid, given the excessive pressure on the officers, that all too often these issues are made mistakes on both sides. Besides how many parents just give up on this fight and say, "Oh, forget about it. And who loses there? It is the child whose adult life begins to wonder what happened, what happened to Mom or Dad, why did he or she not try to contact me, and then find out what happened in the hot tub. That the subject gave up trying to fight for the clouds of the child's right to live together with both parents because Iceland's system didn't offer. I'd like to talk about terms of reconciliation. Contract therapy at the county reforms is also in an incredibly bad place. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Gunnarsdóttir said that reconciliation had produced overexcited results. However, the process of reconciliation as recorded in the law has also resulted in overwhelming damage. It can delay to a great degree the necessary action. I want to take an example of parents who have been arguing over their children's custody, legal rights, and companionship for three years. After a decision in a regional court where one parent is to hand the child over to the other parent, the parent refuses to hand the child over. What, then, must be done? Yes, because the law says that, there is a need for reconciliation again. You cannot enter, require delivery of a child, because there is no proof of reconciliation. Of course, this is absolutely crazy. Those who work in this category, incest, agree that it has become a mess. There are four peacemakers who work throughout the country, for I know that I ought to take care of all these matters. It starts with a person who takes seven, eight months to get the first interview from a qualified representative, and it may take three months to get the other person to interview. It's been almost a year, and then people are supposed to go into terms. You can see that a parent who wants to avoid contact can spend months and years in such reconciliation treatments. This is a situation that is completely unacceptable. We need to make sure that it's improved. So I suggest we try to work together on this project instead of handing over a bill like this, where somehow it's starting backwards. Then you can wonder if punishment is the solution. It has been very clear in my case that when a child is being cut off from the right to contact both parents, it in itself is violence to me. It is. It is the fundamental right of a child to know both parents. A difference in metal is not an illusion when a parent is defending his child from violence, so it is also being done for those who are following this discussion. But to decide punishments at this point with such a weak system, because of all the possibilities I've pointed out, I'm really glad that this case is very late. There's no way that they can get anywhere beyond just some committee and sleep there would be sleep. I reiterate that I encourage the movers to come along with me to try to promote the system so that we can ensure the basic human rights of children in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u167	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill for changes in child protection laws, punishment for illusions, or limitation of association. As noted earlier, I am one of the transporters. At the same time, I was a messenger on a previous bill submitted to Council 147, I believe. I remember a number of comments sent to me by e - mail and through community media. There were some who commended me for being on this important bill and the importance of handling this matter. At the same time, I received a lot of horrible stories from mothers who had been protecting their children, in their opinion, against their fathers, and in some way felt that this bill was directed against them. I'd like to reiterate what happened in previous speeches, please. paritaprevir Helga Vaða Helgadóttir, and at the same time at 1st. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson, of course, is not what is being discussed here. Of course, if a child has suffered violence or is in danger of violence, whether sexual, physical, or spiritual, that is a very different matter. But if both parents have come to the conclusion that they are qualified to associate with the child, and, of course, all of us agree that this is the child's rights, and one of the parents prevents it from happening, it is an illusion. Such is a violation of the child's rights, such violence to the child. Therefore, I certainly don't want to view this as some kind of equality case or some fight against women's rights at all, not at all. First of all, let us watch the child's interests. A respectable president. I also said earlier that I felt that the procedure called a funeral is extremely inhuman. I can't see in any way that it serves the child's interests. But I also believe that if we have laws and frames, we also need some kind of penance to see that the law is being followed. It has been pointed out that we have authority to do so, but in general, it is human affairs that it does not seem to serve its purpose. So I agree with the reasons in this bill that illusion, as if I've gone over and as explained in the bill, is really a violation of the child's rights. As a result, it should be punished in accordance with other judicial requirements under such offenses. Of course, I'm not saying that I believe that a parent is in a five - year prison, any more than I said earlier today, that I suggested that pregnancy rupture be carried out at week 22. We're here talking about an exceptional situation and watching a certain frame of law. In fact, I believe this bill has improved quite since it was last because the comments were made. So here it is, in the case of either fines or prisons, for up to five years, looking to the framework of similar offenses. The discussion has been very focused on the position of a businessman and the terms of reconciliation. I can say that it is not acceptable for people to wait - I'm not gonna tell people because it's really not about the parents, but that children wait for years to come to some conclusion as to how they should be treated. It's completely unacceptable. Well, then I'm just saying that we have to put ourselves to work to the point where we're better. I'm sure money needs it, too. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir only came in before me, we may need to make some changes to the project or system as such. I recall the time when I was on the bill at the last assembly. I am, and then I was a spokesman for the children at the council. The groups who have held these matters, the children's spokesmen, called us to represent the county official, for they were deeply concerned that by means of that bill, we were in some way going to the rights of children. Then it was handled well, and it was the representative of the county who was working with these cases, that this change in reconciliation had been successful. They thought so. That was their attitude. In fact, two years have passed since then. I don't know if things have changed in some way, that things have somehow become more complex. I think it's important that we draw out that we are talking about a penalty frame or a penalty in absolutely exceptional circumstances when people either don't agree on a decision or violate what has already been decided. Of course, it is true that in the vast majority of cases parents can get along in a decent way and focus on their children's interests. In some exceptional situation, there isn't. I think the treatment of reconciliation, the outcome, led to the fact that it is better than it once was to achieve some sort of reconciliation when it seems that it is not possible for anyone to do so themselves. I'll totally agree that there's every reason to look at this whole thing. One of the reasons I'm a messenger of this matter is that I think it's only natural that it's a law against law. Then I'd like to use this opportunity to mention here another case that I'm on at the same time with a importer. That's a case of No. 186, about the wood repairs due to the ratio of gender in the management of an enterprise. There are laws that have been accepted in Iceland, here in the Hall of Congress, on the importance of gender equality being respected in corporate governments, but we do not have laws and seem to be difficult to comply with. In the same way, I also feel that it is very important for me to be law - abiding in such matters. Someone may think that this is an exit, but I mention this in order to argue that I feel that there is an important argument in the case over our head that we have laws when the laws we have passed are not followed. I'm not going to extend this discussion any further. I know that many senators are excited to find out what to do. But as in the past, the discussion of this matter and all matters has to do with their children and their rights and that we are primarily concerned with the rights of our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u168	V.E.G. President. It's been quite interesting for me to listen to talks here, especially the talks of those who are opposers of this bill because I feel that they have been prominent in the fact that they are griting together even things that are not related. It's very simple. It's just another problem, whatever. paritaprevir Helga Vala. This bill is about recognition of what guise means - and illusions mean that it is not legitimate - an illusion of violence to the child. Then comes the debate that children's authorities refuse to share in disagreements between parents. But this is not about any debate between parents. Of course, there is always room for debate. When this has become a child - protection offense, children's protection must, of course, deal with it as well as with everyone else. They can't say: " No, we're not involved, it's just some debate. It doesn't happen that way. It's all horny here. Conspiracy therapy for a businessman, et cetera. It's all over, it's done and done. That's a conclusion. As a result, child - welfare authorities have been involved. Something's coming up. There may be legitimate reasons why your child is not exposed to that person. But it is not one parent's private life if this is the result of a study. So I don't understand this problem. I simply say that this case is very important. This is in harmony with the children's contract and child protection laws that the child does not have to be subjected to this violence, this neglect. Men have wondered much about punishment. It is never good for a child to have to look after his parents in prison, either in this matter or in other matters. Never. [[He suggested, however, that it be suggested.]] The parent must work hard to get there. It says much about the parent's ability to have a child. That's what it says to me. Of course, that's why I'm offering this matter. During my 28 - year career, these problems broke my heart. The indecision is complete. No one did anything, the child was just subjected to this violence. Some now try to turn it into some gender or male rights or women's rights. It's neither. It's only about the simple reality that we recognize that illusions, the fulfilling of all conditions, are a violation of a child. Well, that's not the focus. This is the place where men are totally griting it out and south with all sorts of outwards and speculations. I find it extremely difficult to listen to members of Congress who have fought for the rights of children in all kinds of matters that suddenly go down. Why does this happen? Is it because perhaps a mother needs to be punished? No, I don't want to believe that. The suspect sneaks up on me, but I hope it's wrong. I really hope it's the wrong feeling, because if it's right, we're in trouble. It has also been discussed with regard to the fact that there is a solution to the law of the day. Of course, there are no options. If people don't pay the fine - a lot of people don't even have money, they don't have any possessions - then there is no caution, as in other fines. I think it's a lot more effort to rip a parent's baby out of the custody of an inoculation model than simply saying, "You're being punished, guilty, lip punishment, or if there's a broken-down, it's a heavy penalty. Of course, child - welfare authorities resort to others and give them less advice first. If the person persists and does not comply with the child's rights, he is unqualified to have custody of the child. It's just that way. That is why most nations have it so that the individual is set against a wall. You can't have custody, don't have the rights that come with being prudent because you don't do your duty. You're breaking the baby. You're right. paritaprevir Halla Gunnarsdóttir said that in many places all such neglect of children is being dealt with, as in the United States, e.g. for not taking the children to school. Of course, it is not the first thing that humans do to put parents in. There are other options that have been tried before, repeatedly. It's all fixed up. Just as it happens in Denmark, it takes a critical fraction to deprive the parent of this kind of offense. In itself, I do not know if child - protection authorities are equipped to accept such things. If not, it needs to be corrected. Children's health officials are a real pain. There's a lot of broken families, there's a lot of debate. There are a lot of cases going on, as these numbers show here. Clearly, when there are 550 demands in nine years, there are an enormous number of cases in which another parent evidently feels that a child is being hindered. That's extremely common. That's my experience as a lawyer. Extremely common. You looked at many of these matters in which people stood bluntly, one of the parents just took over, and nothing happened. I saw parents who had to experience those calamities that were not easy, and they were completely out of control. Everyone knew they were breaking rules, all knew that they were out of line with courts. It didn't matter. They just got away with it. I don't think that's okay. I hope no senator thinks it's okay, because that's obviously very bad. I'm telling you, it doesn't apply to all the cases, but I'm telling it, especially in the cases where a child has in the past, even longer, grew up with both parents, that it suddenly happens to divorce, despite a court order's decision, despite the findings of the county, in spite of a contract, that one parent says, "I don't think the child is the best paying of you to keep in touch with it, and in the strength of that decision, perpetution, without having anything to do it, is guile. So sue the businessman, just sue or something. No. Let us acknowledge that such a course to the child is a violation. I can absolutely promise you, everyone here, that for a child who suddenly finds that one parent is torn apart, that must be very sad. It's a lot of neglect, it's very difficult for the child. It's just that way. I think there's some guy in some of the hairs about a complete sidebar on the grounds that there's no statistical evidence and something like that. It just doesn't matter. [[Up front.]] The important thing is that this is the reality, it is known, and if we acknowledge that it is violence and neglect against a child, it should be a law of law. We don't need any more, we don't need statistics. However, we do know that there are many such issues. It doesn't matter whether they're ten or 100. Ten is just too much. It's just a few details of the discussion. I heard what it was. paritaprevir Vala Wagla that bill is never supposed to go anywhere, there's a lot of people looking at it all different from me, it's some kind of women's rights and it shouldn't go anywhere. I know, but I just want to see it happen. Nobody dares take sides with children in this matter, very few. That's my experience. Simply, it's very few people, and that's why it's about some sort of gender thing or that I'm doing the business of some man or man's rights. It's not like that. I'm not interested in that. I'm just interested in people's responsibility, their responsibility for the wrong behavior, as we all are supposed to do, not getting away with it with freckles and bullys. A real society will not let that happen to me. Of course, we can debate whether this is supposed to be a different punishment. Then let's talk about it. The punishment I propose in the bill is just like everybody else, like all other serious offenses, is not different. If we can do so, we can do the same in this matter. It's only hair hazard if it is refused, hair to be protected from other interests, and to turn the case upside down, and to turn it off. It's so simple. Accept the snare of violence against children. Well, that's not the focus.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u169	President wants less of it. The members of Congress are to address other members of the Parliament in full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u170	Madam President. Thank you. A speaker very much for his speech. I'm interested that at times we may be careful with the legal process here at the General. I'm sorry, this bill is unacceptable and should be canceled, as I entered my talk. I will try my brief time to say why--and have it neither with a woman nor with a man, nor with a shark or whatever it is, but with the legal nature of it. Now's the time. A lawyer who worked for decades as a lawyer has probably sat a little too long during the council. Because in 33. a. Children's Law, No. 76/2003, says the following: Before a court order is demanded or appealed to a case involving custody, law, companionship, crime, or conduct, parents are obliged to seek reconciliation according to this article. This is a law of child law that was added at the end of December 2012 - just before it was due. A senator, I think, or even after. Maybe there was. There's a senator sitting at a council there. These matters we're discussing here today begin with an act of reconciliation. So it's not right. A senator said that the treatment of reconciliation was long over. Second, there is a penalty - and this is a penalty. There is nothing to suggest that the illusion is violent. There's been a penalty. When all the carriers say they're not really trying to punish you, you wonder why they're suggesting a penalty. You need to know what you're offering, Madam President. Either they're offering a penalty or not, and I don't see better than that in this incredibly retarded bill, which has nothing to do with men or women, but with children and their rights to do, there's been a penalty. [[The president calls.]] I'll be the first to admit that talking to a child about a cloudless right to get together with both parents is violence. Is that enough, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u171	V.E.G. President. Troubled legalization? They're saying, "Second conduct is a punishment. " There is a law against such conduct. Just as if we could add wood around here to spanking a baby's ass. Of course, that is not the case today. But it's just to say that if you block, and there's a definition of illusion, it's a violation. I'm not saying there's no wood. I'm telling you what the project is like. Of course, punishment will eventually come if no alternative is sufficient. That's what the bill is about, and it's so simple, it's the tombooth in this, as they say in foreign, sorry, topv. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u172	It's Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u173	Yeah, I remember now. But beauty is in simplicity. It is a matter of recognition of such conduct. There may be differences in what constitutes illusions and whether they are legitimate under any circumstances. If she's entitled to child protection, she's not to the police. There's nothing to be more careful about. A pair of treatments? Of course, men try, as always, in case of a case... [[It's legal.]] There are certain issues being confused. A metal is an illusion. If it's a violation, it won't be settled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u174	There's been no escape from therapy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u175	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u176	Yes, it is. It's legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u177	No. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u178	The Senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u179	I think there's a lot of men out here in the middle of nowhere. It's just that if you've made a complete violation, it's not about terms of reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] That's what everyone who's been doing knows about this. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u180	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson's Brynjar, often speaks of us groping together and of the simplicity of beauty. I must say again, and regret what. A senator by saying that this bill is not available for the treatment because it is all horny together. It is being used in association with those who do not enjoy social rights because they are a legal parent. They're talking about long - term reconciliation treatment when an act of reconciliation is legal, and they're going to demand some sort of payment from some institution. It doesn't matter if you have paperwork on your part that you have the right to socialize. We have a particular phenomenon called a businessman and we can't do anything unless we go through it. The operators of the bill are going to start using child protection in this case. Children's protection will not go into this because children's protection has no power to do so. Well, that takes what. Senator shutting down the whole system. It must start at the right end in order not to tear down everything and end up in a ditch with something that is hard to deal with. Councilmen can't help you, i.e. that the law suddenly applies to laws that no one knows how to deal with. Hv. A senator begins applying principles in a criminal court in the middle of the children's law when it is legal that reconciliation should be performed. There's been a lot of complaints about that. To get a divorce, and to bring their affairs into the court. Let's just clean up this law all of us instead of throwing in something totally deformed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u181	Mr. President. Children's Protection Is Not authorized to do that? This bill involves a measure of conduct as a violation of child protection. Children's protection, of course, has all authority, just as it does in other offenses. What can be so complicated about it? [[The point is, not unless an illusion is defined as...]] No, I'm saying that, "Talun is defined in a certain way in this. " Of course, if children's protection considers it to be a violation of the new law, hopefully, it has all authority. It's not complicated. It's not complicated. Senator. It's not a matter of reconciliation, although I don't doubt that child protection will say, "Hey, you can drop it before this case goes any further - like it's always in the past. The waves are tried to calm down, try to reach a conclusion, so that no major criminal treatment is needed. There's nothing wrong with that. It's just that here a specific method of punishment is clearly made, a violation of a child. Once this is done in child protection law, there is a penalty warrant, and there is no need for any treatment for reconciliation. The fracture is completed, or it's not broken. That's how I learned law, boy. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. I don't know how you learned it. I remember I could still have taught you how to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u182	Yeah, good if you don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u183	Madam President. I recommend a bill that I think, even though it's small, it may have a very important improvement in the terms of environmental organizations and, therefore, the public's terms for important decisions taken on our environment, implementation, and the environmental damage. I think it is very important that the matter is being advanced to provide government support for the environment's protection. It's something we really need so much, and I think over the years it's been shown that the maintenance and drive of natureists have been very effective in protecting the environment in recent years. The more access we can provide them to protect our environment, the better, especially at the most. The bill is a success of cooperation and protection. The idea of a meeting with Land Protection came up when it was discussed the access of this same group to sue the Commission's decision on environmental and resource matters to the courts. It was found that although they can sue certain matters there, they cannot sue the decision - making committee's decision to the courts as normal in most cases. I'm going to let myself be read from the bill's report, Mrs. President, because she's doing a pretty good job. It says, by permission of the President: Implementation of environmental, outdoor, and interest organizations for both the Environment and Resource Commission and the Court's courts is involved in making room for the expansive rights of the environment and the state of the environment. The Act on Environment and Resource Decisions was set up after the Icelandic government validated a so-called Aggressary agreement. The treaty gives the public three - sided rights that make up three parts of the agreement. The first support sets parties, i.e. Governments, responsibilities on public access to environmental information. Other support to Member States to ensure the general public participation in decision-making activities affecting the environment. With the third support, the Treaty supports the above rights with a requirement for access to a righteous trial that contributes to the added importance of the contract. The Convention has been created in Icelandic legislation, including with the regulations of the law No. 130/2011, the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee. Under the law, environmental, outdoor, and interest groups are permitted to make decisions and, after the incident, act uninvolved under the Commission regardless of whether such an organization should be legalized by the release of the case. However, the established organisation can seek material reexamination on the findings of the Committee, according to the rules of civil rights. A respectable president. This is a great tribulation on the ability of these organizations to represent the rights of nature and to represent the rights of the environment, which sometimes have too few causes. The organization also has a significantly better capacity to provide interest protection for this kind of environment than it might have for the local population. They have much better knowledge and solidarity, even having some capital behind them and lawyers working for them. Thus, in many cases it is best to protect the environment, to resist environmental damage, and to protect the public's right to keep clean and good environment. But so I'll continue with the commission, with President's permission: The bill of this is first of all seeking to clear up a court-oriented organisation to the Committee so that they are allowed to sue all the decisions under the Committee's operating field, with the presuppose that such interest measures are compatible with the purpose of the organization. Second, if they were involved in the case at a level of charges before the committee, they are endeavoring to extend a right party to the decision of the judicial committee. Two. Count 9. It is mandatory for Member States to have access to the independent and neutral access to the decisions, actions, or inactions of the government, as discussed in Article 6. The contract, as it were, conforms to the law of matter or form. In a bill paper that turned into law No. 130/2011, the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters, was referred to as a two-way decision to achieve this objective, administrative or tribunal policies. So if the lawgiver has chosen to leave the administrative route. With a b- team 1st par. This bill is suggested that, at the same time, it be possible to carry the decision by a judicial committee, who will take the decision for material treatment rather than simply deciding whether a court order has been followed. Therefore, it should be observed that the Government Treaty does not prevent both administrative and judicial openings, but by wording 2 mg. Count 9. It can be concluded that Member States are both allowed to choose one or both ways. The arrangement presented here includes trusting even more fully in the rights laid down by the Conspiracy Convention. The need to consider whether this change requires further law changes, e.g. Code No. 91/1191 for personal treatment. Transporters believe that this will be done in the treatment of the case and on the Environment and Transport Committee. Which I suggest here also for the matter to go on with. Special articles of the bill: With a team in Article 1 is aimed at evacuating the Court of Environment Associations to the Commission of Environment and Resources. In accordance with local law, the principle of being involved in a lawsuit for the decision - making board depends on the court's legal interest in the case's resolution. From that principle, see the 3rd issue. Section 4. current legislation where environmental, outdoor and interest groups are admitted to certain categories if they are compatible with their purpose. It is suggested to clear out the lawsuits of such organizations by removing the limitation that their court is bound to the classes listed in the 3rd mg. Section 4. The cases generally under the decision - making committee are not exaggerating many, and the main practical change, if the bill is to be a law, is that a body of organizations can be opened to sue them according to organizational laws, No. 123/2010. Organizational changes are usually required in advance of assessments of activities prior to the implementation of the Agency's license, but only the latter decision will be held dear by an organisation on the basis of the directive. The exoneration of the court thus ensures that the solution to the case is resolved at its earlier stage. In terms of the b-priority of the new directive, the environmental, outdoor, and interest groups involved in the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources may submit to the judicial decision of the Committee that will take account of the material management of the decision rather than only formal rules, as currently indicated. In accordance with local laws, the organization is permitted only under the courts whether the judicial hearing is in accordance with the law. By Judgment of the Supreme Court in case of No. So 432/2017 was arrested at the judicial hearings of the law on membership before the decision board did not grant the right to a court case. The new arrangement aims to change this project by providing members of the Governing Body with the possibility of administering the judicial decision under courts that take the matter for material treatment. In a civil court of law, the principle that a decision in a case needs to be handled with a legal interest. Since it will not be brought about by the general rules and laws on the handling of private matters to the charges laid down in this principle, it is proper to determine the right of the environmental, curfew, and interest parties to bear the decision of the Committee under the courts, regardless of whether they themselves should be justified by the release of the case. The proposed change is more compatible with 1 mg. 70 C. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland and the international commitments of the State on the basis of the Onrose Convention, as well as the further opening of the provision of further opportunities for legal release on important issues that concern the nation of all. Finally, a respectable president, I'd like to say that the first thing that fascinated me was the fact that the public should have access to environmental issues. That the general public should be able to play a strong role when it appears that the government or other executives are planning to destroy the environment or are on their way to make irreversible changes that the organization disagrees with in its environment. Some countries, I know, have no restrictions on the rights of individuals in their communities to protest action and action on the part of the government when it comes to environmental issues. Thus, in Iceland, membership is not so much that it is a relatively narrow format in a Icelandic court that I have at times felt was a problem, not just in these matters. This is a small step to clear up the environmental rights of the environment into important issues. Today when climate change has begun, there is an urgent time to react. Hence, we need the voice that we need in our leisure activities, or we make it our life's work, fighting for the rights of the environment, which is a mute but that has more and more proverbs here at this council and in the community. Let us strengthen that right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u184	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Thorhjörn Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir for bringing this up, but that's not why I'm saying that I'm really ready to agree. In fact, when the current law was passed, I was not involved in the greater part of the legislation, either on the Environment and Transport Committee of the past or here at the council, but was involved in the treatment and preparation. Then it was based on the proposed or planned arrangement in the current law that harmonizes with our commitments according to the rose Treaty, which certainly provides room to go different ways to ensure the participation right of the public in making decisions on this relationship. I remember that there were some attacks on the Environment and Transport Committee to recognize the legal situation in other countries, but it was found that there were some handles to get through, because the ways around us are traveling around us, or the countries that we prefer to compare ourselves, are different and based on different systems. We chose the way of looking at a administrative route rather than a court route and thinking that this was in line with our commitment in this regard. Whether the majority of the council was successful at that time, I would not say so. But on the other hand, I think we have to watch that it at least seemed that they did. to me and some of the members of the council that it was going a long way to clear up the rights of society in this regard. At least We thought it was going quite far, considering the legal situation in at least the countries that live in an environment similar to ours. That's what I said. I say that there may be a time and a reason to cross the court in this regard. Then I stop at a sentence that came out of question. Perhaps if we were to observe the interaction between the laws under this code and then other laws that apply in a similar field, planning, and other laws, we might create that situation, as well. The senator reasoned that the court in certain cases would come to a time as late as the process, i.e. that when it comes to the interaction of the law, the court may not act or become practical or active until it has reached the stage where it needs to be released. Then, of course, it's clear that it's pretty late in the ass, tops. Mr President, if you don't mind me saying that. Then there is a great deal of control, preparation, and investment. And for the members of the enterprise, whether it is a government party or a private party, it can certainly be quite a participant to be stopped at that stage. So even though I have a warning, even doubts about the final conclusion of this bill or the exact adjustment it provides, I believe there is every reason to discuss these matters here at the council and discuss these factors. But maybe I'd like to do it a little more holistic than this bill assumes that we try, before we decide to make some adjustments in this regard, to understand the process of projects that can affect the environment or nature and to consider how we can do it - what should we say? - reduce administrative issues in this treatment without any harm to the quality of the work which, of course, needs to be fundamental before making decisions in this regard. I think that the progress of the bill is positive in that way, so only positive in this discussion that, of course, there are some suggestions, a point of view in this regard. But I think there really is something more to consider in this relationship, and it is important to do so by trying to figure out and draw out the process of these issues from A to Z, so to speak, that first there are suggestions or ideas that governments need to take their stand on and until final decisions are made. Although I feel that the word lineline-shaped is not always relevant, I think that the process may be as clear as any person, both the people involved, those who have to make decisions about license parties, and those who have or know how to comment on such plans, should be easier to identify where they can come to viewpoints and comments and test their rights. Because today, at times, it seems that the complex phase itself is an independent problem and that the point of action is at times far too far back in the process. There could be a way to resolve or to settle a number of opinions and issues earlier in the process, and I think it would be desirable if we could make any changes in that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u185	Madam President. Thank you. Ármannsson For a certain historical review and for some kind of support, the invitation of an annual son to consider these matters. I wanted to ask you what. A senator's opinion of the bill is his. I hear he's talking about the importance of our considering these whole issues. Although I often feel that it is important to look at the whole thing in a way, I always get a little green bubbles - that they throw things over and study them for five years. In itself, it is not wrong for me to make a complete review of these matters and to look at them in a curve and a corner. But I wondered if there's anything special in the subject of this bill that's causing it. A senator's concern, if it's approved. Whether there is anything wrong with the fact that this will only be the first step, which in the future will lead to this overall review. Or is there something specific about this bill that he regress about?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u186	V.E.G. President. I would answer this in that I thought it would be difficult for me to take sides with the suggestions here except by realizing this in a more comprehensive context. I think we've got a lot of examples of how things can get in the system because of all kinds of charges and all kinds of disagreements that can arise in the process for years, without any result. I would be hesitant to accept the evacuation of charges unless I could see in some context that it might be simplified in some other area in return, that it would be in some other way that it was not merely a matter of increasing charges in some field, in addition to everything that is available, different from what we have in mind to see how a decision-making action in this material should be carried out. I think I've put some thought into this thing here in 2011, and I'm sure I'm in touch with other legislation, e.g. when changes in nature protection laws and other laws were made, that the whole thing needed to be considered. I'm saying if we're going to add charges, I'd like to see it in an entire context before I say yes or no to such suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u187	President. I want to start by celebrating this bill, since I'm a great amateur of anything that will strengthen you right by the Frags Convention. I'm going to admit that I haven't been in a lot of control of it. When I heard a word change, I decided to say good - bye. Senators before, just to decide two things. This article discussed the possibility of a complete review. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir called out what was then in her hand. Therefore, I would like to mention the overall re-examination in the field which is certainly related to this, which is a comprehensive review of the environmental assessment law. Under it, all charges are involved. It is the right of the public, the definition of stakeholders, etc. This review is ongoing. There have been a number of encounters. I'm somewhat obliged to do so because I'm the chairman of the group that leads to their review. It is, if I recall correctly, intended to provide suggestions on that matter before the end of this year. Hv. A committee that can get the bill to look into it, I just want to bring it up a little bit in the discussion, how it's going to connect. Another thing is that it's pre-whisper. The management board now has a bill to change the information law. Everything is accessed to information under the Perfume Convention. So I'd also like to draw it out, without making a big mistake about the exactness of it here, and I'm doing the short overbearing that I've practiced at all, but I just wanted to say that maybe looking around for a follow-up job on this bill that part of the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters will be under the decision-making committee, if it's a bill of law. That's all there was to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u188	Mr. President. I am very pleased to recommend a resolution to be concluded by the Council that at the end of ten years since the collapse, the government is fully covering the situation of children in Iceland. The Conspiracy proposal means that the General council will conclude to hide the government to appoint a team to investigate in a complete way the status of children in Iceland ten years after a collapse. The proposal states that the staff should consult the Children's Office, Child Welfare, UNICEF in Iceland, the Department of Traffic, the United States Society and other members and institutions involved. The staff will report to the government within six months of the order of the task force, but the report will be presented to the General Assembly no later than before the end of 149. As noted in the report on the impact of Iceland's economic crisis on children and their families, especially families, has been reported by the United Nations Child Rights Committee on Children and Their Family. In addition, the notes emphasize the importance of improving the quality of the state funds to correct the cutback on the welfare, health, and education beyond the collapse. As 10 years have passed since the collapse, it is reason to examine whether children have enjoyed improved economic conditions in the country, but there is no room for analysis of the status of children born between 1990 and 2011. However, it may be noted that the child - care committee has repeatedly identified the lack of a whole system of collection, processing and analysis of data on the status of children in this country, as such data collection is a prerequisite that can actually increase the level of equality among children in Iceland. At the beginning of the collapse, the possibility of its long - term effects on children was much discussed. Therefore, there is good reason to examine the status of children during this ten years - and evaluate the impact of the collapse on their status and feelings, such as social, psychological, and economic impact, as well as where services to children were cut down and whether improvements have taken place in this area. This study also includes wide-scale factors and should be kept in mind various covariates such as gender, ethnic background, disability, economic status, homemaking, family patterns, etc. It is important to evaluate the impact of the crash on children and the basic systems of society, including in the welfare, health and education system. Also, action under the Parliamentary decree is an important contribution to the use of the turning point as early as ten years have passed since collapse to gather experience that has occurred during the past period and to consider whether the collapse might have affected the lives of this generation and how, i.e. infants born between 1990 and 2011 e.g. within the school community and at the job market. There are some studies and analyses that have been carried out on the status and feelings of children in recent years that seem to have never been made a complete comparison of the above recommendations. However, I would like to mention a research report on the quality of life and the poverty of children in Iceland in 2004-2016, produced by a socialist named Kolbeinn Stefánsson for the welfare department, which was presented in February. In the Kolbeinn study, the development of paediatric vital signs and quality of life is attributed to the 2004-2016 period with a primary focus for three periods, i.e. The up-to-date period from 2005•2007, the years after and after the collapses from 2008 to 2011, followed by a restoration period from 2012 to 20122016. It is a good report and can be very useful in the work that the government is commissioned to perform in this council agreement. Emphasis is placed on the preparation of the report requested for this proposal, the price, as stated earlier, to consult basic institutions and offices that address the rights of children and their success. There would also be research on the benefits and well-being of children and young people by the Research and Analysis, a global study on the health and vitality of students in English, with permission of presidents, Health Behaviors in School-Aged Children from HBSC, a 2016 USICF report on children suffering from material deficiency, research and the reports of a research centre in the Children's School and Family Health at the University of Iceland, information from the Habitatlation and Children's Children's Institute and Children's Children's Children's Health and Information, as well as reports on the well as the well-being of the community community community community, such as the quality of research for the interests and well-being of students. Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that this council proposal is being added to a good motive. Senators at the current council, which is about the benefit of children and their rights. That's where I'm going to say a contingency proposal. Harðardóttir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, on signing and validating the third optional book with the United Nations Children's Covenant and the Councilhood proposal. paritaprevir In order to strengthen the standing of children and young people, Oddný G.. And I think that this council-smelling proposal is just very well bound up as a continuation of the fine sensibilities recommended here. Finally, I'd like to thank the great spokesmen of the children at the General Assembly, all of whom are my associates in this excellent plagiarism, and it shows a blackness of monotonity and the will of members of Congress on the opposing issues of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u189	V.E.G. President. I was moved to stand up just for a talk. On the other hand, I can just say for fun that when you're in class and you say over the student group: 'Build, before a crash...' then students who are children today don't realize it. They don't aim at anything before a crash. I'd like to promote the idea that we're reducing the subject of having too much husk talk. I'm just suggesting it here, even though I'm not going to reduce the impact of the crash. I want you to pay attention to that. Because the senator briefly put it - I heard it in her list of tests and analyses. I'd like to challenge the Senate to examine the results there are. Research and analysis have examined the interests of young people since 1992, where there is an enormous amount of information. Even if it wasn't for this group to check if there was any change during the crash, so I'm going to use that definition. Was there a change around 2007, 2008, 2009? Did the projections go up or down? Did the columns go up or down? For it contains information about how to feel, exercise, association with parents. Do teenagers experience more of their own now? Are they less with their parents than just living in their rooms with their computer screens? I want people to wonder: " Do I talk to children today, or did I talk to my children?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u190	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think I can partially agree with the senator that we don't have to be trapped in the collapse itself, but I still think it helps us and all those who are working on the affairs of children to have this comparison to see if anything has changed in the years since collapse and what it was exactly. Because of what? The senator mentions the fine research center and analysis, and I agree with him about the importance of the work that has been done there and the research and analysis that have been done on the other side of the network. For example, when it comes to alcohol consumption and the well - being of children and young people, the research centres and analysis have been collected for years, an enormous supply of food into prevention policies and prevention issues in this country. Of course, they have drawn much attention and good results. The changes in alcohol and drug abuse among young people, which have been identified by research and analysis, have brought a lot of attention to the rocks. But like what? A senator mentioned only at the end of his opposition that some scholars have found that during the years following a collapse, some children and young people, who did not have material deficiencies, have improved to some extent because of a growing community of parents and children compared with what they once had. It would also be interesting to identify and make use of these data as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u191	V.E.G. President. I wondered what the comparison would mean, for as the senator correctly pointed out himself, there is no doubt that the interests of young people were necessarily better before a crash than even after a crash. And because the senator rightly mentioned the use of alcohol, such have, for example. The number of teenagers in the 10th grade who have been drinking in the past 30 days fell from 42% in 1995 to 3% in 2016. I'll interpret it then, so this working group is actually investigating the times and the times of the day. The question is, Will the group offer some suggestions for improvement, since culture is being investigated, the ageliness and culture that are being studied by young people and parents and society are all about the benefit of children. I'm happy, of course, that this group will come out here and continue to investigate the interests of young people. Finally, I would like to encourage the entire body of Congress to go to www.randa's and study the interests of young people, for it is of enormous interest to examine the entire database there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u192	Mr. President. Thank you. Again, a member of the council before the counter and the interest he shows here in furthering the interests of children and young people. I hope that interest spreads over to other council members. Because of what? A senator named alcohol and drug abuse and the overexploitable transition of the past few years may also be responsible for the success of almost large quantities of school and parental cooperation and public institutions. We have to protect and take good care of such results because the level of well - being of children and teenagers has been shown to have improved when it comes to alcohol and drug abuse, which, of course, has a tremendous impact on the benefit of children. The results, as mentioned earlier, have led to great interest in foreign lands. I think we should wonder if we should bear that message out a little cheerful, because we often want to boast about various things in Iceland. The tremendous success the Icelanders have had in pre-and-human health when it comes to the use of alcohol and drugs among children and young people is most remarkable. But by the end, I would like to reiterate that the Congress resolution proposal is also based on comments made by the United Nations Child Rights Committee for Research, rather than the economic collapse of Iceland on children and their families, especially families with less material value. These comments emphasize the importance of having heard it in these past few years, which we have been blessed to experience in recent years, the interests of the state funds have improved - I know that it pleases President to hear it - and that we see the good interests of state funds as well as the well - being, health and education of children and young people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u193	The president asks why. Senators, please respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u194	Mr. President. I'm bringing a bill to legalize the health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, this is about reimbursement of costs. At first glance, it could be said to be a technical matter, but the change is only about one article, i.e. followed by 1 mg. Thirty-eight. Let the law come up with a new paragraph, as follows: ▪ Filling up medical security conditions 23rd par. a to seek medical care in another EU Member State shall be paid the cost of that service in this country, although a health care agreement is not readily available, compare IV. section. Remuneration is required by the person who meets all requirements for this type of service and does not exceed the cost of service in another EEA country. The health insurance centre shall then issue rules on the implementation of this directive. Technical cases, yes, in a sense, but high politically, the very thing is about reimbursement for patients on a waiting list - and these are well - meaning people who have been on a waiting list to get on a waiting list so that they might be able to get to a doctor here at home. It's about reimbursement at costs of operating here to independent organisations who meet all requirements and stop setting up funds that are unnecessary costs in sending patients to foreign countries to get the services they deserve. So this case is about trying to reduce the number of lists as soon as possible. I am fully aware that the matter is turned among the government, and in fact, after today there are many cases among the governments. I ask: Why do the independent people not do as in the case of women's freedom and women's self - determination rights and take their own course of action regarding a waiting list? The patients here are no longer suffering much pain, they are young, middle - aged, they are older people in different circumstances to travel. Why has this not been said: "Okay, we know this and respect it for the highest degree? ' A health secretary is developing health care policies for the next year. We know exactly what the focus of the left green is in that. They don't want to go to parties outside the public system. It is a political thought that I will respect, even though I do not agree with it. But as long as there is no division between the tribes of the governments, what shall we do? Should we just wait? Are the messages, my friends, we're sorry, and you break pills and wait until we figure out what to do? That is why we, along with other members of Parliament, have presented this matter. On November 2, last year, I presented the case. The issue is controversial and has not been assigned to the program until this late evening in mid - May, but it is still a thank - you for the fact that the decision has finally been made to the presiding committee. [[Up front.]] - Yeah. Here it is important to remember that we also made adjustments in the budget to address the precise viewpoint immediately because we knew and sense that there was no great will in all the administrations to discuss it. We set up a budget of 200 million fully funded to meet this challenge immediately, so that quality of life could be improved and procedures could be performed by independent qualified doctors who meet the criteria, whether in clinical or otherwise, can be performed at home. We proposed 200 million while the government was convening on the methodology in that regard. However, all the members of the administration party, both social class members, and just as class members, who have responded well to individual freedom, rejected it. That opportunity, therefore, has repeatedly been set, not used. I would've thought to make a shoot. The chairman of a financial committee would have chosen to see the light in this regard, to see that it is possible to save by doing this, at any rate while the government is agreeing on it, not closing its eyes to see that it is possible to look to independent workers. No one is talking about the less opportunities for health care, since we know - and we have many examples of this in the health system, in the educational system - public institutions, public agencies as well as private members of the community can provide well - defined public service. We see it many times in the medical system. Today, there are films, and thankfully, dentists pay up to 18 years of age. Are all of them governmentd? Is it all government agencies that handle dentistry? No, we're going to go to an independent dentist. There are many places to search. We know about a number of eye related procedures, about gynecologists. We know that in the education system, we have a powerful university that is operated by independent sources, institutions, private rights institutions, and we do it well. Entire opportunities for study, including, study duration, are guaranteed in other ways. with equal access to the loan. That is, in fact, completely incomprehensible when the government has been well - equipped for another year's work that it has not been met with the proper shortening of a waiting list. Nevertheless, I'm going to give it to the health minister. I know she's been taking extra money into the medical institutions, into a Land Hospital, ◯ a university hospital. But we also know that this is when other measures are pushed aside. Other measures will be delayed. We've got a lot of news on that subject. That is to say, in a sense, a person's shoes are being peed in his shoe. We in the exorcise stress that in this case, when the waiting lists are so long - there are more than 1,000 people on a waiting list in replacement and hip surgery - they've come to meet that group right away. It can be done by a simple change of law and also by a simple change of mind in the government. It's worth drawing forward to 20. The European Parliament and the Council's Regulations on the health care professional are entitled to seek medical care in another EEA country if they are awaiting necessary treatment in their country after diagnosis has become longer than the reference period of necessary treatment. We see people going to Sweden, and it's good not to represent public institutions in Sweden, but to private institutions, to private institutions. How ironic it is that Icelandic doctors fly out and take the action out of this area because they are not allowed to be done here at home! There's a lot more than some weird thing in that cow's head. It's just not okay. The value of this European Regulation was established in this country at its time, as if it were a matter of validation of such regulations, and was placed in social security. The surgeon general set rules for such a target on June 15, 2016. An acceptable wait for an operation and treatment by a specialist is set 90 days from diagnosis. At the end of that time, the right of a health care professional to look for service elsewhere in the EEA region is established. It is well known that for years this country has been a long period of waiting for various measures, and it is not expected to be significantly reduced in the near future in various articles, e.g. in replacement surgery. Because of this, a number of people like me have already been accepted as health insurance in Iceland have had these actions carried out abroad in recent years and the costs of them have been paid by Iceland's Medical Insurance if waiting hours have been met - well to mark, waiting time to get on a waiting list. The strange situation exists that Iceland's health insurance does not consider itself allowed to pay the cost of a similar operation in this country, although it is made of a party that meets all legal conditions for carrying it: No, my friend, you do not fulfill everything and tick does not meet in the correct ideological box. Go to the surgery there, not at home. It's a natural lost message. This approach has, in effect, led to a much higher cost of action, since operations abroad are far more expensive than the same procedure outside the local hospitals. In addition, travel and maintenance costs on health insurance and in many cases also fall at the expense of an escort. It is more often than not the case. Another factor that often arises and is discrimination, especially toward older people who are in dire need of such measures, is that some people simply do not have health to travel abroad because of this or have additional disease analyses that allow them to go into surgery. What can be done? So, what's the message? Yeah, just wait a little bit longer. I don't mean to say entirely hostile, but humans are opposed to independent organizations and institutions, exclusive institutions in Iceland. There are many examples. The cancer club was mentioned at a council earlier today. They're not answered properly. They are trying to subsist on the basics of society, to present certain doubts about the activities of a community that has cared for and was well screened over the years. We know that's what women have been looking for. We'll see Vog, too. In order to be treated, Voss can do much more than wait. Shall we talk about young people? It's out of the question. Recently, Vig's manager pointed out exactly this, that they can accept more, but they are not listening to needs for increased service and increased support. I wondered when to form the Independence Party in this matter. In the second year, it has grown to a point where there are no options. When will the Independence Party say, "Dear Health Minister, we understand what you're doing, but we're not going to let people wait anymore." That is why we are going to put temporary funds into this while we are making decisions on how we are going to conduct these operations and finance them. Why is that not possible? I am so disappointed to see that it is as if it had been a complete surrender when it comes to health care issues from other councils and the left greens. I stress that I have great respect for the strength and power that identify a health minister, though I often disagree with her regarding the approach of health care as such. I would like to ask people to remember that they can render a defined public service to each other. We do not threaten equal opportunities for health care by accepting it. On the other hand, let us acknowledge the challenge we face when it is time to shorten the waiting list. That does not mean putting matters in a committee, taking a closer look at them, for some of the people on the list have been waiting for months and even for years. It's not working. So I would like to encourage the government, and I don't least direct my words to those who want to be taught at times of liberality, freedom, vision, to speak for the release of this case, that people who are on the wait get answers other than: dear friends, wait, we're just thinking more about how we're going to finish it. It's not working. It's part of Iceland's government's responsibility to broadcast such a message. I am fully aware that there is little left in the council, and this case will not be completed. Still, the government itself can step forward and do so in the way and with the tools and equipment that it has at all limits to its control. I reiterate my encouragement to those who want to assist. There's a way to change this. All it takes is will and power. We are ready to support the government, then groups within it who want to speak to the case in counsel and action. We invite all members of the council to press on to this matter, so we see the waiting list being shortened and the release of their cases, not at any time in an undefined future, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u195	A respectable president. I present a synonym proposal for the education and treatment of manure. The one that stands here is the first carrier with a bang. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, and Ánrandur, the Þórunn of Egilsdóttir. The suggestion is as follows: The General concluded to assign a health minister to employ education for the general public in terms of histology and to have a review of the order of specific rehabilitation services aimed at strengthening diagnostic procedures and offering a cumulative treatment based on results of an experienced investigation. A report says: JEVE is a chronic disease consisting of a variety of signs and symptoms from a variety of organ systems. The main symptoms are chronic and generalised musculoskeletal pain, stiffness, overwhelming tiredness and sleep disorders. Other common symptoms include hirsutism, cold sensitivity, restless shingles, hypersensitive micturition, dead fingers, impaired concentration and depressed mood. In 1993, typhus was formally defined as a disease of the World Health Organization (WHO). There was a considerable amount of time before the disease gained general recognition in the medical community, but the above was commonly viewed as a garbage bin analysis. Over the years, prejudice has been linked to the disease that is important in destroying it by means of progressive instruction. Histogram is not measured by blood tests or X-ray tests, and this is no doubt one of the main causes of prejudice toward the disease. Gestures can work very hard and significantly reduce quality of life and the ability to perform daily activities. Gastrointestinal disorders are common in people of all ages but are the most common in middle age women. Many foreign studies show that the quality of life of these individuals is often very relaxed or well below what is common in the community. There are many manifestations of the disease. For some, symptoms are relatively mild and present late in life. At a modest level, people have work that is mostly in control of themselves, and they can maintain almost complete skills and skills. When symptoms develop, people often turn to doctors for pain, tiredness, and insomnia. When the disease is at a low level, people prepare for pain from morning to evening and their skills are severely impaired. It is often only when people receive the full attention of doctors and the system and respond firmly to the problem. Sadly, though, poor - range individuals are at risk of less recovery and too many become disabled. In December 2017, 1,778 individuals enrolled in biopsies as a causal factor to 75% of the U.S. National Insurance Institute (SEC), with a mean age of 49.9 years. At the same time, 268 individuals in the rehabilitation pen had histologically stable. In women of 75% histologically diagnosed disability, 91.7% of the cases were observed. Histomancy was considered a contributing factor of 75% disability in 14% of all women who were in disability. It should be noted that microgastric patients are often caused by synergistic factors of tissue arthritis, other musculoskeletal disorders, and psychiatric disorders. Entire data are not available on the number of individuals diagnosed with histogram in Iceland. According to a 1998 study, under 14,000 individuals 18 years of age and older may have a biopsies well over the number of foreign studies. About 90% of those diagnosed with this disease are women. Most people are between 30 and 60 years of age, but a substantial number (more than 15%) is less than 30 years of age. The cost of the individual, the health system, and the whole community is very high. At present there has been no general assessment of the cost of histagastity in Iceland. However, European studies have shown that 80◯90% of expenses are indirect costs of illness crisis, loss of work, and disability. It is estimated that the annual cost of health care, health care, and the rehabilitation of tissue transplant patients is at least 4576 billion. The community's precalculated cost due to the nesting patients who had 75% disability in December 2017 is 1,040 billion. if you do not work well enough for years. Treatment options in Iceland. Most subjects with tissue disorders are diagnosed by a healthcare professional, but in many cases they are sought for further confirmation from a rheumatologist. Individuals with mild symptoms receive most medical services, but those with moderate or severe tissue disorders require multiple rehabilitation with the introduction of healthcare professionals. Here, several treatment centers offer such treatments, including Þraut, Smokeyund, the Institute of the Natural Medicine Association of Iceland, and Kristnes Hospital. The mean waiting time after multiple rehabilitation treatments is three to six months for the Health Care Agency in the HPC and up to two and a half years for Training. Waiting for a rheumatologist for a period of time may be a very long time. Motion drivers in the clinic and physical therapists play an important role in the treatment of tissue arthritis and wait for them to be fully brief. In the early stages of the disease, treatment of biopsies has often been limited and randomised in this region. However, there are a number of factors that can be done to correct tissue arthritis and so it is important to initiate correct treatment prior to incineration. In order to achieve this, a formal diagnosis and assessment of the patient's status should be performed early in the process, and the individual must have a complete benefit-risk treatment available both at the clinic and in the centres that provide more specialized rehabilitation. The person being transferred, the person being present, feels strongly that the current tissue-induced healthcare professional is to be reviewed with the awareness that the diagnosis and procedure of tissue healing are earlier in the course of the disease than at present and that treatment services will be concomitantly performed. Also, a carrier considers it important that a health minister initiates education to the general public in terms of histology, including to overcome prejudice due to the disease and, in order to increase general understanding of the importance of self-administration of chronic tasks, self-employing further disease development. A respectable president. I have proposed this synopsis proposal, to assign a health minister to employ public education and to have a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation with the aim of strengthening analysis procedures and to offer comprehensive treatment based on the results of cross-examination studies. The health - care system has to listen to this silent disease and recognize it as a major factor in the loss of workers of all ages and in isolation at home with a form of pain that disintegrations the individual, both at the job market and as a member of the community. According to this, I hope that the matter will go to the welfare committee and that it will discuss it. I believe this is a voice, if this goes through, the silent disease that has afflicted so many women and is a major factor in the disability of women here. It is not only important that this group be held around, and that they receive a voice, but it is also of enormous importance that women get to treatment as early as possible so that they can get back to the job market. Of course, both women and men have this disease, but especially women.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u196	Mr. President. We will discuss proposals for interpretation of education on the treatment of biopsies. As shown in the case of what? I'm one of the parties to the case. It's fine. It is important that we just raise the discussion about this disease, and not only this disease but many other diseases, such as, what should we say, fall a little under the radar. It's fine to start with. Like what? A carrier entered a web of large quantities of energy, especially for women in Iceland. They often find themselves prejudiced against their disease, often indiscriminately ill or sick. Therefore, often grapple with grief and may not always receive the support or cooperation they need because of their problems. This may be due to the primary diagnosis of the disease as a clinical analysis, i.e. there are no specific blood tests, imaging or any of the things that can help. It affects much of the nation, and of that part, the biggest part is women. The disease reduces the quality of life of those with the disease. Symptoms may range from being very mild, which may be primarily some sort of drowsiness and tiredness symptoms, to being very serious that they cause complete inefficiency and disability. I believe it is important to get some form of a complete picture of the disease as a health problem. It is important to coordinate therapeutic management and to improve patient bioavailability throughout the country to treatment. The interpretation proposal is part of the conscious awakening. 1st Transporter spoke of the need. I believe that the suggestion can go to many people, hopefully with health care professionals at all, to place tight arms around the group of people who live with this disease in order to try to find solutions and help people to achieve that health and to live with as good a health as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-103.u197	A respectable president. This is about to become a mid-night proposal for us tonight, this council proposal. I'm very proud that we had the privilege of taking this case from a committee and measuring it, although I did not expect it to go far beyond any other issue that we have placed in The Gang of the People. The welfare committee. We in our people have promoted it and have been our ideals from the beginning, not merely to fight poverty, but to put our arms around people living under difficult circumstances. In this case, we are talking about the elderly, but especially regarding the fact that observations and research of the elderly, especially those in a medical facility, and then going home, wanting to go home, have been seriously lacking, too often. A young woman returned a report - I don't quite remember her name, fell out - after studying it. She was doing a research report in Iceland's University in regard to equipment, nutrition, and so forth, as well as to the elderly living at home who had graduated from medical care. Of the 13 persons she visited and examined, all of them suffered from a variety of nutritional deficiencies, and not just that, but all were completely equipped. The refrigerator was empty, and often it was the correction: I just didn't trust myself out. There's nobody to help me at the store. It's way too slippery, I might fall, I might break. It's at such a point, and I know that it certainly isn't the first time that we feel it is necessary to set up any agent, a representative of the elderly, who keeps their arms around their interests of any kind. Therefore, as a member of the move and my distinguished platoon, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, I have proposed this Senate resolution to hide the social and child - care minister's counsel to submit before the end of the year to the World Council bill to legalize the office of the elders of the elderly. I'm going to read this brief report, with permission of the president: This proposal suggests that the Minister of Social Affairs is to hide the Department of Child Affairs to prepare and submit a bill to the legal office of the elderly. Service in the elderly is distributed on the hands of a country, a community, and a private partner. The laws and rules on the case of the elderly are complex, especially in the area of taxes, social security, and health. The elderly are a large, varied group of people, and they vary in their ability to care for their own rights and interests. Thus, according to the moveers'opinion, there is a great need for proverbs that will protect the elderly and guide them in their rights. The emissary of the elderly is intended to call attention to the elders'rights and interests in general, both in public fields as well as in private, to guide the elderly in their rights, and to respond to the impression that they are violated. The economist of the elderly should take initiative in managing the personal welfare of all older citizens, especially in preventing social isolation, lack of nutrition, and their general poor equipment. At the same time, he shall make proposals for improvement in the rules of justice for the elderly and take the initiative to establish a policy discussion in the community on the issues of the elderly. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the suggestions for this reality have been presented in the past but not in the past, unfortunately. At the 120, 121, 122, 126, 144, and 145th legislatures were presented proposals for interpretation of the agent of the elderly. At the 122th legislature, a bill was submitted to the legislation on the agent of an elderly man, 475th case. Then, in 136 C.E., the legislature was submitted a proposal for a judicial hearing for the elderly. Because we grow older and we are growing older, there is a greater danger of isolation. We know that adults don't give much attention to themselves. They are modest and stand back. Very likely, an elderly single person who has lost his mate and who lives alone at home is one - year - old. That is why we say that there is good reason for finally to give up an office for the elderly. That is why I challenge the whole world of Congress to accept this suggestion, although I am not optimistic about its coming from a welfare committee rather than anything else. But I hope that it will be, as this is truly a matter of interest to us all, hopefully, to enjoy in our later years. I suppose, so generally, most of us get to grow old. The people have really been concerned with the matters of the elderly, the poor, and the poor. Everything that attracts social and economic benefits. We feel that it is fundamental to our welfare community, open and transparent, as we would like to call it, that we put our arms around one another, and help us make everyone feel better. We believe that the interests of elderly ones we suggest will make a difference especially for those who do not have many to support themselves and those who are isolated and alone, even suffering a lack of nutrition.
