ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u1	A letter has been received by the presidents of the Parliamentary Party and the Independence Party to the 7th. Southk., Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and 1st. Smoke. S., Sigríður On. Andersen, be absent in the next issue of official interest. So take place at the General Parliament, who was a guardian for the 2nd party's list in the district, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, but the 1st Keeper of lists has announced a fatality, and 1st lipant of the Independence Party list in the district, Hildur Sverrisdóttir. Both of them have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u2	The president would like to comment on today's conference, with reference to a storm crossing the country, that it will mark the work here as anywhere else in the country on this day. Of course, those of our staff and members of Congress who have to disappear from meetings in the next hour or to attend school for children. Similarly, some house drivers must leave before roads reach and from the capital area may be closed. The material guidelines on the schedule will be postponed until tomorrow because of those who are already gone, which includes the total number of 2,566. the part on the part of the meeting will be taken off the program. We'll try to make use of something in the afternoon to further the rest of the program but to rush through a meeting before the worst weather strikes the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u3	Mr. President. I do both at once, I go to the conference board, and I do my vote. First, we will lie against this simply because there is no agreement between government and government opposition over the outcome in the next few days. I hope, however, that it will be done, that this morning was fine, and I hope he continues that way. However, I also intend to make comments, as soon as I rejoice to see them wonder. Today's members of Parliament, who are being called in, point out that this was, of course, an arrangement for desertification and then announced one - sided that it was no longer working. When people interact with one another and rely on trust, it is far better that they just keep the whole time. But I hope this doesn't have a big impact on today's progress, and we'll have some kind of agreement here before the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u4	A lot of people have asked for the word, and the president is not necessarily experienced, so they intend to state their votes. Rather, they talk about a matter in general, so the president stops the vote and gives the word to those who want to express themselves about the President's meeting board or whatever it is. [[Take two for one.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's a welcome thing, but the president thinks it's unnatural to have it mixed up with his vote. This is nothing but a conference board of presidents or a communication of that kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u5	President. I don't care what team I'm talking about. We feel, however, that it is necessary to try to reach an agreement on the end of Congress, and we would have wanted to be further involved. As a result, we will vote against extremes to take these issues on the program below. The reason is that even though there is an acceptable spirit in all of this, the agreement has not yet been made. We are talking about matters that are far too late, matters that are even controversial, which are scheduled to be planned at some point during the council. This includes a matter to vote for afterwards. We think it would have been better if we stayed with this. But it is a pleasure to see that most of the parts seem to stick together to handle these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u6	Mr. President. I would like to make a comment to the President's conference board, as well as to explain my position when it comes to deduction. I agree with the senators who have pointed out that this matter, which is in question. that the Church administration, if it's too late. Now the church may not be new, nor does the additional agreement that we have been asked to provide variations to become part of the program. I think it's part of an old line of work. These issues should take place much earlier. We'll see that later today we're discussing the budget. It is, in fact, there. 5.4 billion are being put into the system because of the failure of this room because of a bad response to the job. Also, there is another budget of 800 million. K. In the budget, again because the implementation of disability money was not in accordance with law. I think it's part of a bigger problem, and that's why I'm going to vote against the fact that we're giving these variations. I don't think all of us, no matter where we are in politics, should agree that this kind of work is not good for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u7	Mr. President. I'm going to address the President's conference board for word. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson earlier on an arrangement for euphemism. I explained at a meeting of the council groups this morning that we and the forwarding of a group of officers are instead of members of Congress who are overseas all week beyond what we had planned. I have to know that there is an explanation that yesterday the government's opposition - and it was successful - tried to block a vote from a council hall. Under the circumstances, the government's use of such devices requires that the administrative sector be made full. This recall of our backups is simply a reaction to the conference matrix used by the government side yesterday. This is very clear, and we do not need to be hurt or bored about it. There's a possibility that if the government's side doesn't show up for action and doesn't show up for votes, the top of the board has to be fully trained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u8	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank Mr. President very much for separating these discussions, because I think it would be a good idea for the senators and those who may be interested in hearing whether we are discussing a vote or a president's conference administration. I think there's a good chance that Congress officials know what they're talking about at one time. So I'm glad to know under each part of the program I'm talking. For word's sake. paritaprevir The son of Ármannsson of the Year was now so that yesterday there were not many noncombatants in the house, and the opposition cannot be responsible that governments are anywhere but here and not there, either because of international Congress or local congregational duties or for whatever reason they may be. There is no need to act as if members of the government resistance were not involved when they were just one member of the government who was not here. [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] I think... [[Take it up: It's amazing.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u9	The President's asking for a row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u10	It's amazing... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u11	The speech session is over, and the president asks for a row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u12	The one quoted here will be able to complete her talk on behalf of the court's office. [[Up front.]] Since it is true that governments must also be present, as is the case with the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u13	The president encourages a calm exchange of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u14	A respectable president. I would like to discuss something else that is the absurd situation in which this program is conducted on 449th issue, on the status, control, and practices of the National Church, regarding a so - called additional contract made by the Icelandic State and the National Church. The church meeting is the most dishonest deal I have ever known. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u15	This issue is on the agenda for this meeting and material discussion about it is not relevant to the President's meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u16	This is a program in which all of the most dishonest agreements have been made - forgive, the president interrupted the speaker. It is a disgrace, a respectable president, that these matters, the addition agreements, are scheduled on this notice when it is clear that the committee is not fully treated by the time frame we put ourselves here. It is clear that we do not discuss this well enough, and this is a contract that continues to establish the future generations with this tragic agreement with the state church, which is, as I say, the most dishonest contract ever made in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I have to make a comment about being disturbed like this. I'll be back in a talk later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u17	The president reminds us that when we face a meeting for material discussion at home, rather than indepth about the President's meeting board. Hv. A senator had a material discussion on the content of this contract, and the president would mean that he would rather be in the discussion of the matter himself rather than underneath about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u18	Mr. President. In view of the words that fell here, I want to know that when it was clear that many senators were going abroad and after a conversation, the Central Party decided to take in a replacement and that we would equal it, I contacted a group of members of the United States and requested to take in a replacement so that we would be equal. I just want to keep it up. She did this to my wish. However, it turned out yesterday, and there may be one of the things that took place in the council members, that Piratars had taken in a replacement we hadn't known about, so it leaned on in that context, i.e. The foreign people were no longer mated, just to keep the facts in order. I like that rule, i.e. that we can pair out people and not even make extra expenses at the council. But it has to be kept in honor when it is, and yesterday, it was so that the Pirats took in an extra man we didn't know about. [[The president calls.]] Besides, we can't overlook the incident that happened last night. It is not unusual for the government to respond to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u19	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, a Birgir's Ármannsson farm is more sensitive than most of us. It is not enough that he took part in explaining an unscrupulous vote a few years ago. Rather, he pretended to be in the last or last week of Congress members who were in a position of government. I'm just going to ask him to let it be entirely his job to take care of our jobs in the government position. We've been through a rough patch, people are busy here, and they haven't had time. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u20	Row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u21	Let's leave it in the middle of things. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Of course, we leave ourselves the right to be here with fairness, so that our demands are heard, I don't talk about at the top. The secretary of finance has signed a government contract that is to show special respect for the General Assembly. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna pray. paritaprevir Birgir the son of an Ármannsson to be content to keep his people together. I think it's pretty difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u22	Mr. President. Let's be honest, let's not pretend that there were no planning actions when over 20 members of the government resistance left the house yesterday when a vote was about to begin because they had assumed that because of the premiums, the 32 members of the government would not match the 32 members needed to produce variations. Let's not play games with you, okay? paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson. When such tactics are used in a council hall, the government groups will be merely the seats they have with the militia, if that is the case. It's not that complicated. We're gonna go for a second. Congress officials cannot have the arrangement this way, although it is normal to take into account the government's opposition, it is only natural for them to consider that here the whole government situation, a smaller section of the council. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u23	Mr. President. I ask Mr. President to assist the U.S. Assembly members to hold a speaker's hand while they're in the puzzle and not to begin with the beacon at the same time. It is very disturbing to stand here and first have the minister class growling behind them and then the senators scream out just while we're at it. I'm waiting for the highest. President to help us have freedom of speech here, as well as anyone else. In terms of what we are about to do here later today, it will probably be up to them when we recognize our votes, but I have to say, however, that the government council members have held up the job for the whole fall because the Ministers have not turned in the bills. That's why the situation is the way it is. And that's when we haven't been able to come to work in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u24	President. I think it's important to be clear, especially in the light of reason. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said that the Piratars had been brought in without telling anyone that we had no agreement to mate out, not that I knew about it anyway. As head of the Party, I have not seen that this sort of agreement was made. Besides, I think it's important to ask the highest. President and get answers to what may be discussed in this pontund about the President's conference board. It has now been discussed with the entrance of the deputy council, attendance at votes, and all possible things that come up here but when Porita's senator arises and protests the ◯actually program, i.e. a case scheduled for the program gives reasons why he objects to the fact that this matter is being planned, and a president feels the need to interrupt the senator. This is going to happen a lot. I'm waiting for the highest. President on how often he is actually disrupting Pirata's members in his speeches in this pita. I find this to be unnecessary, considering how other members of the council hall are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u25	A respectable president. We are in the position that certain groups of the council simply take over the greater authority. They form a government, deciding to control everything in their power. When they cannot man the greater part, it is only their problem after all. Perhaps a respectable president could have anticipated it and asked what was going on after a meeting with the council members on Monday, how it turned out. [[Up front.]] I, however, agree with what you say. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for a meeting program. Of course, we should be able to get ready for the President's conference board and complain about what case the president will set for a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u26	A respectable president. I spoke in a talk about the meeting board earlier to protest that a certain matter was set on the program. As soon as I mentioned the case, President started knocking on the bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u27	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u28	I don't like it. I think it's a respectable, respectable president. I must be able to protest that there is something on the program and that I'm talking about protesting that something is going on. I don't like this. I just want to finish my speech. I didn't abuse this team. I'm just talking about today's program. I don't think it's acceptable to put this matter on the agenda because this church meeting team that continues to be treated properly at this point. It comes in so late that it is not discussed and is not treated properly on a committee as I was earlier. Christmas, just before Christmas, is to be used as yet another emotional blackmail to put the interests of the American Church above the interests of other religious groups in the country. [[The point is, it's not relevant.]] That's probably relevant, and that's why I'm protesting that this is being scheduled. I refuse that I am going outside the material by talking about the program. [[The president calls.]] [[Strike out: Hallelujah.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u29	I suppose there's more than 40 witnesses here. A senator had entered a material discussion about the content of the contract behind the bill and had that big word in mind. [[Foreground on: No.]] It is natural for such things to be discussed when the subject is to be discussed in the following article. Then, too, criticism can be presented that is justified in the matter... [[...after a speech...]] Wants to play. A senator would please let a president speak in peace? [[The point is, I'm asking the same thing.]] There will not be one thing that the senators would prefer in front of their president. This meeting will be terminated if this is to be continued. [[Up front.]] Criticism, which is justified as to the fact that the matter has come too late, of course, to promote the matter as well as that the council will have too short time to consider it if it is over before the year. It is an old custom here to allow members of the council to ignore the program in a way that allows them to scour the topic of a meeting that is already scheduled and to join other teams. My predecessors have brought a man up here to keep men on the subject in this regard. I have the guts to guarantee that by my political experience. The President is doing nothing but what falls to his duty to maintain order on meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u30	Mr. President. It's safe to say that you sense some irritability over the last few days of the council. It is good to say that while the government held them up with its own affairs, their faces were shining with glory. It may be an idea to keep the government in check and finish this. On the other hand, I come up in a talk about a meeting board to state matters with a reason. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, where she answered. A council leader of the Left Green who suggested that Piratars had broken the agreement for mating. I'm standing here as head of Parliament for reverends and saying that I'm not familiar with any agreement. It's pretty cheap to take that way after this explanation. They're just not right. There was no agreement between the U.S. anti-continents and the board of directors for any mating. It may well be that such an agreement has been made between individual categories, but it is not the case with others. I refuse that explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u31	A respectable president. I'm going to attempt to express my feelings without being disturbed by a president. The subject on the program is set up just before Christmas when the council needs to go home. It is a continuation of a language called the Church Meeting, where that agreement is further established. The meeting includes the fact that the Kingdom has already purchased some land, the price being eight on its side, i.e. Infinity. The Kingdom will pay for this forever. I'm sorry, but I don't understand what's going on. A senator, or any member of the community, would make such a deal unless they were making a deal about the interests that the person claims to be negotiating. That's what I find dishonest with this deal. It is dishonest how this work is being done, that ministers go to negotiate with the State. Then there's some footnote in the budget that doesn't get a proper coverage here. Then this bill comes in, which will not be properly discussed either at the Hall of Congress or at the Committee, and it will be expected to be done here before Christmas because Christmas is so much a time press on, the most sacred celebration of Christians that it is said. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The fact that this matter is on the agenda is uncool, and if that means that the State is having any problem fulfilling its promises, it's the government's problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u32	A respectable president. There has even been a complaint that there has been an unpleasant rapid renewal in this room and here a lack of experience, but it seems to be no matter how fast the renewal will be, the living of old and old. It is quite remarkable that this program is scheduled for a few days before the assembly is scheduled to be delayed and expected to be completed without any material discussion. There are plenty of such cases that are late due to this government. Just as the memory part had to be kept up for discussion in this hall long after autumn, it did not interfere with any cases from the government. A number of cases on the top priority of the government today have not been adequately discussed in the Hall, much less, and still to be added. This is not an acceptable method, especially by a government that proclaimed something better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u33	A respectable president. I want to agree with those who have spoken. You wonder how they always talk about the respect of the council and a new way of doing things, but we always fall in exactly the same kind of work again, and it'll always be exactly the same. I just ask, "Where are these new tactics, respect for the council, and changes in practice habits? " It's about time, and I'll say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u34	Mr. President. I'm still here to ask for the highest degree of assistance. The president of making things good here at the council. We committee directors have spoken about it many times at the highest level. A president has found how pathetic it is when things are all too late. If we were to take an example from a welfare committee, there was not a single case of government. The welfare committee at the time of the November month. Now we're in a fit right before Christmas to do three cases as high as possible. Social Affairs and the government want to run out for New Year's Eve. They're not ready. I have no idea why they're supposed to come to 1. " Or., part of the cases that were to take place in 1st. Yesterday, but they didn't make it. Why are they being forced into a Senate Hall if they're not going to be getting paid for a New Year's Eve? [[The president calls.]] I just can't figure out how to work this thing, and I certainly can't get on this downing program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u35	A respectable president. It's very strange to be setting up this case on the government and practices of the National Church because it's supposed to be completed this year, in the 2019, what amputation is of property that moved to the State from the church. It is made up of a subversive contract and a change of procedure before we really know what that is and what the commitment of the State is to that property. This is an entirely wrong time to try to discuss the matter once in a material way. In this contract, e.g. simply illogical and hence illegal terms on contract time under official financial law. Trying to stuff it through a New Year's Eve is completely ridiculous. I'm saying no to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u36	President. I'm on the red button. I don't vote for these things because I don't like the lateness of a storm. We're always getting into this, and it's time for me to take up a discussion about these matters, and we're going to discuss why they're so late. Then I'm talking about honest discussions and watching honest talk. What's going to work? What makes a case so promising shortly before the Senate hearing, and we have no time for professional political treatment? This leads to mistakes and bad laws. What is it that makes us respond? It would be wish that the president was as angry about these tactics as he is over some formality in the past for President's conference board. But it seems to be totally in harmony with this government. It's all on the surface. It has nothing to do with what's in it. It's just what people see. It's superficial.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u37	A respectable president. A senator votes against this quick treatment on matters that are quite clear not to be completed by Christmas and not even started. Since there has been no discussion about meeting here between Christmas and New Year, this hurrying is now on matters that are not all unnecessary. To me, this seems like a barrier to Congress and a decision to set up a subject that can well be held up until January when Congress meets again. So I vote against this release.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u38	A respectable president. Based on the way the government chooses to handle this case, the additional convention suggested here for the program, the church meeting, I tend to believe that the government simply won't allow it to be a matter of proper publicity, either here in the council, either here on the Committee, or in the media, or elsewhere, and not at a time where people have time to consider such matters. This is an enormous interest in future generations, so let's just get it straight. This case will not be the required conquistancy treatment, the minimum legal treatment that it deserves, in view of the time we now have, at least. We'll see what happens on a committee. I strongly assume that there will be a suggestion that the matter will not be discussed or that it will be very short. But then I just hope that the members of the community who are not busy preparing for Christmas have time to discuss this matter because they know what it is because they know it's dishonest. [[The president calls.]] They know the horrors of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u39	V.E.G. President. Just on account of this vote, allowing the matter to be considered, I do not understand the opposition to the subject of a program, a man who obviously wants to discuss it well and extensively in a conference hall as well as at any other time. paritaprevir It's the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. We can take it on a program of this vote, and then we will take a material position on the subject. It's two separate factors. The two cases being voted for right now, i.e. whether or not they should be taken on schedule, according to date. Another is the matter of the church, which is a matter of the year, clearly and clearly. The other issue, regarding the registration of real owners, is a small correction issue regarding a date, which is, in fact, not by the government, but by all the economic and business committees as a team. [[The president calls.]] It may be true that members of Congress keep this in mind because the misunderstanding seems to be careful that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u40	Mr. President. During the fall of that year, political issues made it necessary for the council not to be ridiculed, to have some work to discuss. Then, the case got a little late and too late, and it's all too serious for itself. I say no now, however, because in these last days, I don't think it's a good thing if there's an agreement between the government and the government's standing to settle matters. Otherwise, someone's favor is constantly being walked, so he always cheats it. It's no big deal meeting around here. Three, and I'll finish this. Then let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u41	Mr. President. Then I think it's best just to start talking about the weather, and that's what I'm going to put in touch with the Icelandic language and talk about misreading and vocabulary following the PISA that measured reading and reading on mathematics and natural science. English is rich when it comes to describing the weather. As for the wind intensity of Beaufort's scale, now set out in Icelandic weather forecasts, we have words such as cold, gourd, erection cold, wind storm, wind storm, storm, storm, storm, and storm. In addition to these words, we have dozens of words that reflect the wind and can be, for example. these are: a violent storm, a raid, a fiery storm, a violent storm, a murderous storm, and a roar. Mr. President. If so, we will be just as rich when it comes to rain, especially snow. I mention e.g. snowstorm, dog-lover, diving, labor, sledgehammering, scalding, scalding, black-blushing, and snogging. Mr. President. It is said that children learn to do what is meant for them. It would be fascinating to hear all the news today and yesterday and see how the media describe the weather these days. Icelandic is and should be a living matter. This is not a recommendation to make all young weather experts an expert. Rather, it is to point out that all of us have rich responsibilities when it comes to increasing understanding of the language and making it a living instrument in the games and in the work of all of us. Let us therefore read with and for young people, and most important, talk with them. Then they will learn what is meant to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u42	Mr. President. I'm very worried about our health system. I'm a little worried about our medical system. I'm not the only one with the conversation in the community. Although we always want to persuade ourselves to the Norwegian welfare states, to compare us with the northern countries of the other and to pretend that we are exceptional, we can no longer speak of ourselves as being excellent, but we need to start talking about that our health - care provider, the staff who still operates within the health field, is excellent. They have undergone nonhuman pressures under government rule, inhuman pressures, and now the director of a Land Hospital, our National Hospital, has announced that he will cancel all fixed contracts in the Land Hospital. What does that mean? It simply means that our excellent staff in all areas of the National Hospital of ◯ University Hospital - who accepts all the work that other health institutions in the country must send off because of lack of money, the National Hospital must accept all of this together - the staff that serves to look for something else and that it creates a long and long wait list. If we compare ourselves with the northern countries, we will have little regard for the health of others. A new OECD report showed that our contribution accounts for more than 8% of national production, but Sweden puts e.g. 11% of land production for health care. This is a fact, and it is crazy not to look at the facts when discussing the medical system and making donations for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u43	A respectable president. The actual discussion of the Senate's activities after the earlier discussion may be added to the stream of water. Nevertheless, I want to do so. The lateness of the council has become a disgrace. The government's priority list for this council is considered to be one 17 cases, of which 14 appeared after the October/November. They had received most of them on a discussion or a discussion in committees when the committee to deliver the heat and weight of a discussion in the autumn Summit arrived. Half the cases were done in mid-November. It is just over three weeks since the first one was submitted. Many of these, in turn, are now outstanding. This is unacceptable, and we know the consequences and the cost of making serious mistakes here on legal procedures. It is quite unacceptable that the council does not have the time to discuss these matters, call out for reviews, arrange for visitors to write and plan, and be able to deal with in a material depth on the issues the council should complete. This describes the extraordinary disregard of the European Commission for the legislature Council, and this is getting worse. Granted, rarely have there been such high rates as late as today. Again, we know the consequences of this past, and I have to admit that sometimes I feel like the premeditated force in this hall, like some kind of photocopy office, which should simply take over the cases as they come from the executive's hand, stamp them, and handle them. This is not an acceptable procedure. This is not an acceptable respect for the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u44	A respectable president. In recent years economic growth in Iceland has been the greatest in the South. The largest increase is about 16% during 2017 when the average national production increased by 10%. Clearly, then, Southnes are essential for national preparation. How, then, do we live in Southnes? That's one power line down there. There's a high demand for extra electricity and security. Federal defenses have examined the delivery security of electrical energy on the Southnes and have concluded that until another line comes on Southnes, power on the Southnes will be unsuspected. To continue the economic growth it has been necessary to ensure new opportunities for electricity and to maintain the security of companies and the worldwide airport in Copenhagen. It is of interest in rentals that have tens of thousands of automobiles to electrically electricalize the fleet. That's not possible. There's no electricity. There is no basis for attracting more data sets because the current line does not add extra electricity on Southnes. The electricalisation of cruise vessels is not an option for the same reasons that pioneers need most of the increase in electricity. That's why I say, a respectable president, if there's anything serious about energy exchange, two things are necessary: electricity to replace fossil fuels and transport systems to get the electricity into users.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u45	Mr. President. In the early winter, we have been considering the competitiveness of domestic fish productions for state-rich fish production in the EU and social and economic impacts in Iceland due to the export of unfed fish in containers. The Commission has taken this matter for good publicity, has taken out a number of visitors, and it has been observed that domestic enterprises are competing with companies that are state - strengthd in Europe, which in some cases buy fish in the fishing markets or directly from farms, causing a number of jobs to be lost in the local fish industry and the operating grounds to become difficult. This has now been joined by the Commission, asking for it to be considered, including, by the High Commissioner for Sea Control. A report of the price of the market, which has been greatly discussed recently and responds to it. The Committee considers it necessary to get the position of the marine minister, social minister, transport minister, environment minister and finance minister to the case and therefore aim for questions on the challenges of ratings that fall under their domains and ask for answers to them. The Commission wants to examine the feasibility of domestic fish production in the EU as a result of the increased export of unexploited fish in containers. At the same time, we will see how the possession of national organisations in the domestic fish industry, which buy untrained fish from Iceland, and how the EU supports marine soil and fish development in its member countries. This initiative in the name of the entire committee, taking the initiative. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, I believe it is very important and that it provides the results of which the government continues to work. This shows that we here at the Generals can show solidarity across groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u46	Mr. President. Recent numbers from OECD are a concern for the costs of the Icelandic health system. There are some things that worry about these numbers or at least Interesting. We do well to make a good impression on most of the measures that measure success in health care. We do well in most public health clinics, but we use less money as a community. You wonder what it's all about. Is it just that we have far better health care staff than anyone else? I don't think so. I don't think that's the case. We have excellent health care professionals, but that does not explain the difference. Is it because they are younger? Is it that rural society is spending a lot of money on preemptives? What factors are behind them? We need to know this as a community. Such knowledge will help us to make decisions about how to protect public money. I think we need to continue on the course of reducing the patient's expense intake. This government has done so and has done very well in it, so well that what Icelandic health care users pay for each individual is considered the lowest thing in the North countries, but not the highest as it used to be. There's going to be some changes. But better, if it's enough. Likely, the key answer, as in all, is that we need to improve in our ratio. But we also need to examine other underlying factors and how we can use them to continue improving our health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u47	A respectable president. 400 children wait one year or one and a half years after diagnosis of ADHD. There are also about 550 adults waiting for up to two years for the same analysis in the exercise and behavior center of the capital area. There are 100 children on a waiting list to be treated, children who need to be treated because of a variety of problems, e.g. evere mental and developmental problems. That their parents have to fight with their own mouth and crush themselves for getting a service for children is absurd because their children's illness puts them under enormous stress. Parents should not have to fight for their children's self - righteous service at the same time as their lives are turned upside down because of their illness. That parents or their children may have their lives Of course, damage due to a lack of service is not acceptable and is urgent to correct matters immediately. There is no other way to eliminate children's lists immediately and to make sure that children's health is not permanently damaged by physical and mental pressures. Is it not time to make sure that children with mental illness and other serious illnesses are not on a waiting list? There I specifically suggest that more options are missing for children who also suffer disability. Their parents weigh even more heavily, and they naturally need much more help. This is also true of children who are chronically ill and their parents because it is a matter of special consideration for how these matters are handled. What does it say about us generals that we cannot even arrange for children even to be damaged by a waiting list after diagnosis and treatment of their diseases today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u48	President. One of our corporations has made it a lofty goal to become a noncarbon objector in 2025. I'm here, of course, talking about land activation. This is where the company is going to get even. By reducing the expansive effect of Clipting, and it would certainly be progressive if it did. The company also has plans for plant trees for carbon balance. This certainly is a noble goal, but is it all said here? Is the Right lmage Given? So both individuals and businesses live with electricity that is only 11% of pure energy, 34% of their energy is produced by nuclear energy and 55% by oil and gas. President. What's going on? Is it possible that land-resurrection is doing all the talking? Is the public informed that although environmentally friendly energy is here, we are on paper releasing 19 tons of radioactive waste and 8.8 million tons of CO 2 from electricity production? Icelandic energy users, whether business or individual, work hard to identify themselves as environmentally friendly. Is it normal to pay full price on electrical energy that is dirty on paper? Should those who place great emphasis on environmental production accept this? I'm putting a big question mark on the sale of proof of purity. I've wondered whether to buy them back. Indeed, land activation is to reduce pollution, and the company is to be directed toward a lack of carbon. However, this is to be done by practical and reasonable actions, not by more outward appearances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u49	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna talk about prevention. It is unmistakably the planning of young people, whether we are talking about sports, leisure activities or youth work, has a tremendous advantage, both for the physical aspect but also for the mental and social factors. Research in these subjects shows that the setting is important, that it is even based on a fixed foundation. Then I am not alone in speaking of monuments. Rather, I am saying that the setting was there for some time when there are rules and traditions, professional demands, ambitions, ambitions, discipline, and extraterrestrials that will further ensure professional approach and strengthen the impression that participants are part of a organized group. This research has led to greater confidence in young people. It strengthens their sense of identity, contributes to their well - being, and reduces any abnormal behavior, such as drug abuse. This is what we've seen, e.g. measured the effectiveness of the past few years in combating juvenile drinking. In fact, there is a unique work being done in the organized sports and sports activities of young people. The offer is great, and parent participation is always increasing. We have been successful until now, but we can do more to support all the volunteer work that we are doing today. We also know that there are other factors, a respectable president, and public health prevention, as well as no forever asking. Then we are talking about general health and prevention of life - style related diseases. Therefore, I have proposed this council a proposal that is involved in a national campaign in public health-related prevention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u50	Mr. President. It was foretold that there would be execution in all the land today and tomorrow. As we have seen, this weather, if it becomes as bad as predicted, is worse than we have seen in the past, the Weather Service has flashed the red color of weather signals for the first time since the recording of this new color code. The coasts and the Northern West are red, but the whole land outside the orange is going to be the next most powerful warning. Clearly, the storm will have a major impact on education, employment, and the everyday lives of Icelanders. In many parts of the earth, travel will be weakened, electricity is lost, property costs are prepared, and other factors may be considered. The country's rescue forces are normally equipped with a large amount of equipment for the weather, and in general, respondents have worked to prepare as much as possible. People are encouraged to stay at home, and I have come to the very core of my situation. We are here in the country, not an unusual problem of weather, and we place our trust in police and other operators, rescue teams, and the media. These people have not failed our trust, and it is important that we put them on the punch we can do to make the work easier for them or at least not making them more difficult than is needed. It's clear that the weather will be as crazy as predicted it will take a long time to come to the aid of people. Likely, respondents will have to prioritize their actions. It is important to take full note of the warnings being received and not being on the move unless it is urgent. It is so expected that if the weather doesn't go as bad as fear, then the discussion for the next few days will be about being out of control, etc. - but we cannot agree that it is better than the unnecessary damage caused, that people have had trouble without cause because they ignored warnings, or that reactants were unable to carry out their assignments or were in danger even of rescuing people from situations that could have been prevented? Can we agree that despite today's equipment, it is really good news if the weather is not as bad as we fear?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u51	A respectable president. Now that the wind overflows the land, there is a serious danger of soil covering a land where snow is not covered. When organic matter - containing soil is released, much carbon is lost in the atmosphere. On the day of soil on December 5 of that year. Spent a meeting of farmers and organizations who care for the soil. It made clear how much work we have to do to protect the land. By strengthening and increasing the vegetation of the ground, more carbon can be added to vegetation and by preventing carbon from spreading into the atmosphere in weather conditions, as is the case today. Similarly, those who are in construction or breeding need to make sure that soil is as brief as possible. There is much carbon at any given time in the natural cycle of life on earth. All food products are taken from organisms that are part of the cycle, and by food culture, carbon is in the continuous cycle. Our challenge is to ensure that in food production, production, and consumption, carbons do not fall directly into the atmosphere, and so from the cycle, but that as much of the raw materials are consumed and what is not absorbed directly into the circuit or are bound to the soil. In such cases, the use of carbon footprints should be maintained in all districts, in agriculture, in the management, and in the transport of food. Thus, in all climate discussion and in the context of the choice of food for consumption, the nutrients cycle and production opportunities in each country must be viewed as well as the manufacturing process. Iceland is a grassland, and we can stay and get enough of ourselves in the future for food most; meat, fish, and vegetables. We're supposed to concentrate on producing as little ecosystem as possible. It helps guard the dirt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u52	A respectable president. Today is the International Human Rights Day. On December 10, each year, a worldwide day of human rights is welcomed. The date is the date when the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on December 10, 1948, making the first international explanation of human rights worldwide. Human rights are fundamental things that all individuals have regardless of their nationality, location, gender, language, color, religion, sexual orientation, or any other status. Human rights have been defined in international treaties, regional contracts, and the national rights of most countries. It includes internationally accepted requirements to protect citizens' privacy. Again Iceland has most international comparisons of human rights status, but that does not mean slacking the hand so that it can be done better and better all the time. Human rights are no more perfect here than anywhere else. We are to keep up a discussion about them, ask questions about where to do better, where to learn, what our role as a global nation is, etc. Lack of respect for human rights has resulted in a deep - seated problem that is hard to deal with, e.g. In the developing world, I speak specifically of poverty, the mismanagement of wealth, and corruption. Respect for human rights is the key to bringing things to a lasting advantage. So I call attention to events held by the International Department of Public Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of State, and the National Rights Office of Iceland that were held this morning for today's special occasion. these matters were raised. The year of Iceland in the United Nations Human Rights Council is about to come to an end, remembering that in its field, we as little countries can have a powerful influence. I want to finish my case by saying something. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, Fridrik, about weather forecasts and weather conditions that now cross the country. It is important that we hope for the best, but prepare for the worst, and put people and the little birds under cover. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u53	A respectable president. We are once again reminded of the conditions we can live in regarding the forces of nature here in the northern part of the world. Now, when companies close their operations, parents are picking up children at school and nursery, Iceland's University breaks down exams, emergency groups are meeting together, electricity is widely out of the country, and people are taking out candles and radios that run before batteries, we have to remember them, a respectable president, who are willing to work to ensure our safety, our fellow citizens, the people who ensure response services and emergency services, both half of the public and not least the rescue forces we have so well lived in. As soon as yesterday, they were preparing for their reactions and have been distributing rescue teams into areas that look for the worst weather. It is not likely, a respectable president, to live under the circumstances in this country that a large number of people who have been trained and who have prepared well are ready to step out of the way when the other person plans to take us home for safety. Thanks to that self - sacrificing activity, just on a day like this, we may be reminded so firmly of the circumstances we live in this country. We've got one of the largest fundraisers in the rescue forces, fireworks dealers. This has resulted in negative discussions over the last two years because of the temporary pollution of particulates. In fact, she'll be here many other days. I urge, proper president, that all government decisions, on our behalf of these mountains, will ensure that there will be no excess in this. [[The president calls.]] This is far too much below, since the grieving part of our funding work is a powerful rescue force. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u54	Mr. President. Middle-class members have long been concerned about Land Hospitals of ◯ university hospital. We have provided suggestions that may include: In view of the fact that simpler measures are removed from the hospital and are offered to others whom it can work, and we have provided funding for this matter. We have also suggested that the property of the Land Hospital be increased by money because of a fear - inspiring situation, especially among young people who have mental illness, often mixed with addictions. For a little while we've been looking to the way the storm clouds have come up around the Land Hospital, and we've also suggested that the hospital be overrun with emergency control. Now, Mr. President, reports are being made at the Land Hospital. It's also beginning to resort to overwork contracts, and you must ask, " Can this mean that, if it turns out that people are fleeing the hospital because the staff there have been working heroicly every year for many years under difficult circumstances? ' This is not to be seen without any intervention because this is not enough but is at the same time because political work is being loaded into the hospital that was previously in other places. Now is not the time for political Criticism, now is the time for us to put an emergency control over the Land Hospital, put on it a good administrative and financial check and try to rebuild it the way he and the staff did, that I am not talking about those who are waiting for their release, patients, deserve it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u55	Mr. President. I am not going to discuss the forces of nature, though strong, but the forces of men that sometimes need restraint. Ujal Singh Bhatia and Thomas R. Graham are judges at the court of the International Business Agency who resign today as their appointed time has passed. At their elimination there will be only one judge, but according to the court's regulations, no judgment can be made unless there are at least three judges. Thus, the international Court is out of operation. This is not an unexpected conclusion. Rather, it is the predictable result that the U.S. government has prevented the order of a new judge for a number of years, first in Obama's time because of a conflict of Trumpur rules but now because of his opposition to international policy of business and international cooperation. If the International Business Court is inaccessible, it can be said that GATT, GATS and TRIP treaties, and other similar and secondary agreements, are unattainable. Issues that arise have no solution area. For the most part, this will not change anything, but it is possible that in some cases some countries will use the confusion to subjugate the market, cheat contracts, and encourage unfair business practices. Some countries have started preparing themselves recently by making two- sided agreements for their own actions, e.g. The European Union, Canada and Norway. President. I requested a memo from the State Department on Iceland's operations to protect our international trading system and to protect our interests while the sentence is inoperative. However, if Iceland does not agree with its own interests, we may become victims of the damage resulting from this global business system, both indirect and direct, e.g. if other countries start signing for exports that we rely on. We must not allow inactivity to cause Trumps's nationalistic bitch to undermine our business interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u56	A respectable president. If the president thinks it's an occasion, I'd like to volunteer in a conversation about our relationship earlier, but I'd appreciate it if we could just talk it out of the Senate room, for no reason to discuss it here in front of everybody else. On the other hand, I used a word earlier in the so - called heat of the game, a word that was first used by that time. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir on the case of the state of the state. Minister of state today. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who used the word "Environger " on this subject, wrote on the European Union. When I was on the Internet, it can be seen that I was not the first member of Congress to use that word. I don't see in the council that there was a comment on the use of the word back then, and I didn't comment on the use of the word earlier. Still, I feel bad about using it myself, so I want to pray for respect, and I will avoid doing so in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u57	President thanks a lot. A senator must admit that he did not hear the word well enough to really appreciate what was said, but apparently he did.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u58	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law of state status, government and conduct of the National Church, the rights and duties of the employees of the state, and the laws of the Pension of the Government. The subject of the bill can be attributed to an additional meeting that was signed by representatives of the Icelandic State and the National Church on September 6, 2000. the application and review of a so - called church meeting, not a new agreement. The contract aims to increase the independence of the National Church on financial and staff issues, but the contract also makes possible. it is estimated, especially after evaporation, that the National Church is fully responsible for its own finances and that it will decide for itself the number of its employees. Also, from January 1, 2020, the National Church will take care of itself all the salary, accounting, and payment paid by its employees. From the contract, the employees of the National Church, who have so far received their pay from a state-of-the-city fund and have the rights and duties as public employees under that law and staff law, will continue to accept their wages from the National Church and not be counted as government officials or employees from that time on. According to personnel law, the bishops of Iceland, the consecration bishops, the testimonials, and the clergy of the National Church are government officials. That's the only change that's made in this bill. To ensure certain aspects of this implementation of the agreement and to gain the legal value of it, the Minister of Justice is assigned to submit a bill at the Council, which includes a change of the law covered by this bill. Are adjustments necessary so that the Church can handle the salary of all its employees from the annual convention as has been prepared. For one thing, major changes proposed to the State of Churches have been directed by the law in many places referred to office and order or sentences. Rather, it is suggested to refer to the word job and employment. That's the end of the Act V. Section of the Law and 2nd. Section 3. in which the state is referred to as paying the pay of certain members of the National Church and that their legal standing is the same as the public employees. It is suggested that legal requirements be provided to ensure the rights of the staff appointed to the end of this year so that the staff's legislations, as we can have in the relations of the National Church, are set up for the first three months of the year 2020. It is assumed that on April 1, 2020, a synod has set up a legal case that will be excommunicated from national law. It is also suggested that the staff appointed in office for the next year's convention maintain the rights and responsibilities that the order brings out its appointed time. In addition to the change in national law, it is necessary in accordance with the added agreement to eliminate laws on the rights and duties of the personnel of the State, which includes the staff of the National Church, where they will continue to be employees of the National Church. In view of the added agreement, those members of the National Church now involved in the A and B Penitentiary Department of Pension Services are expected to maintain that membership while working at the National Church, it is also necessary to make a change in the law of the Pension Fund of the People of the State, allowing them to remain in their involvement in the B-section of the Fund. In preparation for the bill, there were some factors. I agree with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the National Church, but the National Church agreed to a council in November to make certain changes that match this bill. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of this bill. Since an additional contract between state and State Church is expected to cover the pay of all its employees from January 1, 2020, the laws proposed in the bill are urgent. The 1997 agreement, especially when it is necessary next year, can be discussed with the National Church's own legalisation and with other legal adjustments in the direction of the implementation of this process. However, it is suggested here that present employees be, not public employees, but employees of the National Church. It is the only change in this bill, and no other material is being addressed, either from 1997 or the update being made at the beginning of September. The only change in this bill is this, so that it is clear from all the discussions that have taken place here on this agreement, as if there were a special discussion or some major change in folk law. It is important then to bring in a fixed cleansing of pagan churches in various terms on finance, financial management, and various funds that will be removed, as well as the revised laws on status, government, and conduct of the Church, which will hopefully reflect further independence and a step toward organized separation of state and church. I believe that these changes in government-ethnic relations are inevitable, not only to the advice that there is no, but also to the changes in society in recent years where more and more Americans choose to stand outside the National Church. In this context, there are often cases of segregation of State and church, and there are some differences in how people apply. This is not an amendment or limitment of the government's payments by means of this implementation of an agreement. The communication is simplified, but there are no new commitments in this process; there are only some aspects of the 1997 agreement that are being developed. I believe that by this change, both the change in the workers we take with this bill and the ones to come out of the application in September, they are taking a big step toward becoming rather like a free religion responsible for their own business and financial affairs rather than a state institution. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u59	A respectable president. I got a little confused about what was at the top. A minister said what was being discussed in this bill. I read the bill, I know its contents. It is undeniably a law that is set up in the additional contract itself, at the bottom of which it stands. Then there is no other conclusion that the legislation we set here is a requirement for a person to be fulfilled. If there's some misunderstanding on my part, I would love to get it right from the top. Minister. But I also have to worry that these changes are taken out of parentheses compared to the changes to make in church funding, i.e. changing the law that the State is financing, and so many employees of the other and these blacknesss are being turned out to be from the number of members of the local church. This bill must be an extension of that change, and hence, it is part of the additional agreement. If I'm missing something, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. It is true, as I said in my history, that this is the development of what is stated in the agreement that since January 1, 2020, the personnel of the Church are its employees, not its public employees. That is the output required in this change. We are not changing the agreement in any way or making new commitments this time. In this contract, the agreement is not actually re-writed in any way. Rather, it's an implementation of payment where we're going this way. It was requested that the number of other instruments in the contract be met until further agreements were agreed, as agreed in the 1997 agreement, and here it is an agreement. Why don't you bring it out with somebody else, ask me. A senator, too. The other changes are larger, and it is stated in the agreement that the requirements for workers take effect immediately and that preparation is long started. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u61	A respectable president. This additional contract requires that the arrangement for financial support of the state - which I'm going to call so, I know that it is worth it, but I'm going to do it anyway - depends on how many enrolled in the National Church are removed, as if I understand the additional contract, and instead the fixed amount, calculated from a particular time, submitted. I understand the minister's answers on the way that this bill could be legalized without also making the adjustment I was referring to. I think it's the best. Ministers speak as if there is still time to reconsider this agreement or the council's approval that it will be canceled by law. I think it's important to be clear, so we at least know what position we are as members of the Senate to influence the course of things. Is it not true that if we accept this matter, we must automatically agree to the rest of the contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Of course, this change is just being discussed. Then, when we receive a general review of the social law itself, status, government, and practices of the National Church, we can deal with all kinds of issues involving the State, the State, its activities, and other matters. Today, that is what is about to fall away with this, e.g. that there should be 138 priests in the 1997 church convention and that the church is to decide how many employees are on it, and more. Of course, there are still certain rules that we have, as when the church takes on various forms of work, such as mental care. For example, a prison priest was being advertised. It did not particularly pay for him from the jails of the country but from the church itself. Of course, there's only a set system that we've had, and we have a review, and this agreement is just an implementation, not a new agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u63	A respectable president. We are discussing a bill to correct a church law on government and practices, and it seems to me that this is just the best of matters in many ways. It is best for the church to take care of its own pay cases, not the State. But what I want to ask the highest. The minister of this is what says in the introduction, by permission of the president: ▪ This bill does not suggest a law on the Christian Fund, etc. and application fees, etc., but these changes will be considered in the near future. Then I'll ask you, what are the changes? Is that the complete separation of Church and State? When's the next time? Is it this council or the next council? I'd love to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u64	The results of this implementation include not only the changes we will discuss today in this bill, which will require the employees but also what the senator will refer to and will come later. I guess in the spring months, that bill comes in. It is a meeting between Church and State that is removing special laws about a particular fund that has so far been employed by the church. These funds will be removed, and the Church will take care of them and not be a special relationship between state and church in terms of the funds or special laws about them. Rather, we are moving more independence to the church in order to maintain our own affairs without changing any means of money, and we are still going to the 1997 church meeting, which is just another debate. But here is an adjustment to what this involves, and there is a agreement between Church and State. I see a chance it'll come here in the spring months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice and I think this is the best part. As far as I'm concerned, it is in itself right that the nations and their employees should take care of their own business, both in attendance and in other matters. We can argue over how much they will be and whether the Kingdom has to collect them. But I just think that there is a very likely aim for total separation between state and church. Am I not correct in saying that it is only scheduled to be recorded? Or is it just a special joke?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is in. This is a simple system involving funds such as church finance and parish funds, which have been in the laws and budgets of each year. But because of it. Of course, a senator notes that the separation of Church and State is a small difference in what people are referring to. To some people, there is no financial payment that runs from the State or from the tax system to the National Church. This agreement may bring no closer or farther to the limit to stop paying them. However, the church still accepts its own employees, employees, and financial dealings between the State and the church, which are simplified to a lesser extent than any other government agency. I'd say we're making her more independent. We are not taking any steps to separate, as this is required in the constitution. However, this is a step that increases church independence and aims, I think, that the goal is that one day we will be here to discuss the separation of state and church and what changes will follow that change. [[The president calls.]] But this is a major step toward increasing the independence of the church, which I believe both the church and the community are subject to trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for a brilliant speech that she followed with this matter out of harmony. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the separation of state and church, speaking of the church's independence, that it is being changed that the Church will be no longer some kind of government agency. I've never thought of the church as a government institution. However, it is a part of our community, and according to its constitution it is part of the community we have built up. A minister speaks a good deal of increased separation, if I have noticed a moment, or further separation. She spoke of increasing church independence. Is it the opinion of the Minister that we should go all the way and separate the church completely from the state and change them at the same time, i.e. 62. g. Hers, in this respect?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u68	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of independence as well as separation, and there are, of course, differences in which people are talking about it. But I think the Church and the State are ready for an increased church independence. So am I. Of course, we need to face changes in our society. According to the latest figures, there are 231,000 people in the State Church, but 132,000 are outside. These changes in our community in a few years are vital, and we need to be ready to look to the future in that regard. What Is the Best for Our Society? Where do our society want to go? How do the nations want to live in that society? The Church will always be a major part of Icelandic society, but it is, I think, entirely dependent on whether it becomes a national church or not, how it behaves, whether people look to it and trust it, turn to it in good times and war. It is up to the National Church to arrange their affairs so that people will look to it from the near future, seeing how communication between Church and State will be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u69	V.E.G. President. That was a smooth answer from the highest. Ministers, of course, have not answered the questions. This includes a measure of smoothness, of course. I'm going to let me reiterate my questions. I can only ask the Bishop or the church to serve themselves where they feel the Church should be located. But I ask the minister again, the Ministers, shall go in full separate from the state and church, and thereby to 62rd. Will the constitution be taken out or changed? That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question, and it is simple as it centers on a change in the Constitution, which will be removed only after a national fee. It's not under what? It is only time for a senator or a ministerial servant to change, with a great change and a national need. But I think, yes, it's inevitable futures that one day this provision will be taken away from the Constitution with a changed social profile, in harmony with changes in our society, and an increasing emphasis on religious freedom. I don't think it's necessary for the church to be in this way part of Iceland's administration order. I think it's entirely up to her, out of this connection, in what relationship she has with the people of the country. If people trust it, it will always be in some sense the National Church of Iceland, if people turn to it both in good health and in war.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to correct the Minister a little bit. In view of the current constitution, it takes not a national law to change but just a general election. I want to be clear. This change is being discussed, says Minister. I object, too, because it's not quite possible to divide this by the samurai method that has been called. Under these circumstances, there is an additional meeting, so we have to talk about this unique change in the overall context of the additional meeting, which is rather defective, especially when it comes to public financial laws. In view of them, I simply ask: " What are they paying for? How is the amount of money divided up in terms of the Constitution and its commitment to the prisons that were being discussed? We only get one dollar and we have no idea what we're going to agree with, and it doesn't work according to government law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u72	A respectable president. A discussion of the 1997 agreement is just another much larger discussion, and it is not my job to justify or explain it specifically. This, however, does not mean overlooking the fact that this contract was made in its time, and the State has viewed it as being bound by it. [[Up front.]] That includes the various issues, including. the earth where it is and the ministry that the church has been doing. On the basis of that contract, this additional contract is a fixed payment of payment. There are no new commitments we are paying for with this agreement. On the contrary, it is only new commitments, and much work is involved, especially in the wages of a certain group of people who were determined by the man - made scheme, but it is no longer. [[The president calls.]] It had to be revised after the law of manure fell out of force of 2018 and in some way resolved. For one thing, this output is selected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u73	A respectable president. There's extra debt in this extra contract. Let's just start with that this is the first time a number of new registrations from those who become citizens here is under 50%. It is decided, then, to remove the amount of mass restrictions in the original church meeting. Because of the number of records in the National Church in recent years, the amount of pay has decreased from 138 to 136. In the introduction, it was said that it was going back to 138. That is an additional commitment according to what we are in today's situation. I'm talking about the additional convention and it's always necessary to talk about the church meeting as it is now because we have a new law on public finance that puts the government, conditions to make such agreements. These conditions are simply not met by this added meeting, just far from it, so we must talk about them overall, even though we are talking about some changes under those contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u74	A respectable president. It's just wrong. Senator. We are not going to have any opinion of a number of priests, e.g. of the State Church. [[Up front.]] I said, "It's about leaving the agreement that there's a certain number of people somewhere written down on the part of the State. " Today, just the National Church is designed to decide how many priests they intend to have, how many bishops, and how many people to work in the Bishop's Office. It should not be the issue of the State to determine this by a specific number of things. We are not shrinking or increasing again. Rather, we are refusing to have an opinion of how many clergymen the Church has. The decision of the National Church will be how it pursues its own interests, these as well as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I believe the Church of Nations is important to Icelandic society in the past, in the present, and in the future. It is an important testimony that as a nation we stand on the historic and cultural foundation of Christian faith and values. We are to protect that heritage and its effects in Icelandic society, an inheritance based on the fact that the same is now the same in Icelandic society and Christian custom. Therefore, I welcome agreements between Church and State as discussed here. Its aim is to provide the church with an enormous increase in financial independence. This is a milestone in the relationship between State and Church, and it can be said, in effect, that this is a major step toward independence. This will be the case, e.g. Priests of the Church no longer have government employees, and the church is gaining far more independence in financial matters than has been and the highest. A minister traced his speech. This revised agreement is based on a completely new thought that creates the Church of America an important means of reevaluating its practices in principle and adapting them to the situation in the 21st century. From the viewpoint of the National Church, this must foretell a great change. Before continuing, you may need to know that you may not be given this medicine. fit to point out that, of course, the church order remains uncut and is based on 62 streg. in the constitution. I view the National Church that includes a declaration of the community's baseline value. That understanding includes the fact that it is 62 C.E. The constitution that we can claim to be a Christian nation, can cross our national flag, and sing to our god O. True, there are Christian nations as we do with Icelanders, but they do not have the same national regulations. It is an important proclamation in my opinion, a declaration by a nation that has lived in a hard - to - do with nature, nature, and Christian life for more than 1,000 years. So I don't agree with the highest. Ministers for the inevitable review of this law. It is alive and built, not by the Constitution alone, but by the arrangement of the church and the nation. ... traditionalsand routines. Consider, for example, a church service at the Court before the assembly. It should be noted that freedom of worship and tolerance have been as deeply rooted as in the nations where a religious system has been established. It's a good example in Iceland. The evidence suggests that such virtues enjoyed growing up in the shelter of a broad and tolerant pagan church. The National Church or State Church Directive is at a people in Europe and the Icelandic Constitution on the subject is attributed to the Danish Constitution, where there is still a physical agreement in the Danish Constitution of 1953. This arrangement of Iceland's Supreme Court has believed to be in accordance with the Constitution of religious freedom and equalitarian principles and international human rights contracts established by Iceland as long as it does not impair the right to favor other religions, establish religions, or non-ethnic and religious organizations, and it is not divided by individuals for that reason. Some years ago, the status of the Norwegian Church was simplified. The position of other religions was greatly improved by a well - established government arrangement. Nevertheless, there was a desire for a National Church of Norwegian, which was more than anything done on cultural and historical grounds. A constitution of the evanangelic Lutheran Church as a national church in Iceland gives the National Church a role as part of the constitutiond social order. At 62rd. The Constitution says that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is a national church in Iceland and that the State is in its place to support and protect it. This can be changed by a law that is an exception to what is generally true of the Constitution. However, this is according to 2 mg. Ninety-niner. The Constitution that changes the State church directive depend on the nation's consent to national pay. So I believe that the National Council cannot be canceled without making that decision in accordance with 2 mg. Ninety-niner. where, as stated earlier, it involves a changed church order. Icelanders took part in the consulting national law on proposals for a new constitution in 2012. Even there was a number of them. asked about the state of the National Church and wanted a greater proportion of the people to have regulations about national church in Iceland in a constitution. This conclusion is satisfying to me, and it is an important guide. I believe a minister must look to that when he has expressed himself that the change is inevitable for the future. It is primarily the nation that controls it, and the people have expressed their will in this regard. The need to reexamine current religious law, No. 78/1997, so the objective of the agreement that we will discuss here will be met. Secular law is too binding and makes it difficult for the church to make the best use of the new freedoms involved in this agreement. As a result of reevaluation of the Common Churches, a so - called church understanding needs to be kept in mind. Dr. Hjalti Hugason, professor of church history at the University of Iceland, discussed. His discussion shows that the term church understanding refers to the answer to the question: What does the church want to be in the near future? Does she want to be an independent religion on a Lutheran foundation? I agree with Dr. Hjalti Hugason when he says: (For fully formatted text, see publication) Theology professor and church historian are then wondering if the church can remain a national church. Whatever the connection between the National Church and the State, the main thing is that it maintains a living, active relationship with the State Church, and it must be thought to do so by Dr. Hjalti Hugason. If the church has the confidence of the people of the country, if it continues to look to them according to its own wide variety of reasons in the warmth and showers of the daily life, if it means that it mediates a message that has value in the changing circumstances of each day and the future challenges, the Evangelical Lutheran Church will continue to be a national church, regardless of its legal and administrative status, and this must be a competition for the church. Thus, a new religious law must be simple and flexible, ensuring the church above all the most independence and self - control on how it builds up its system of ruling and develops its ways under changing circumstances. In this regard, heavy - scale laws, as it were, can not bind her hands and interfere with her development work, including the rest of her life. the definition of jobs and positions within the church. In the future, it must be important that the church appoints a wide variety of people with varying education, experience, and training to meet its many challenges. The church must develop from an institution to a congregation like Lúther in his day. Despite the fact that the Church is gaining as much financial and legal freedom as it can be, to develop a flexible practice out of its own image or church understanding, it is that the new church meeting calls for some establishment within the church, so to speak, in one stipulation, which is designed to promote financial control. In the future, the Synod, the highest government of the National Church, must exercise the authority of the church, as it already does. To do so, you need to build a reliable manager who will be the head of the council, i.e. Council. One of her first tasks must be to develop a model to lay the basis for the exchange of funds that must be played out between the various church's work modules, with transparent, professional views and councils. One of the roles of this Commission must be to negotiate with members of the National Church, both dedicated and uncivilized. It must therefore have a long way away, as Dr. Hjalti Hugason said, from the church's dedicated government and enjoys freedom from it. As a result, a review of the national church laws is crucial to providing well for the knots in this field but also to prevent tension between the Commission or the church director and the Bishop, for example. The director must respect theological viewpoints and the dedicated head of financial reasons so that cooperation is anointed in spite of the cultural barriers that often seem to lie between the two worlds, ideals, and economics. It takes a complete church understanding if everyone is heading in the same direction. Clearly, the Synod is awaiting many challenging assignments in the coming years to process the new position that has come following this new arrangement. It is the most important thing, as I mentioned earlier. Mr. President. Some senators see the persecution over the church meeting, which provides the basis for the arrangement under discussion. In addition, there is a council proposal for complete separation of state and church from several members of the council. The church meeting has nothing to do with the status of the National Church in the Constitution. This is a legal agreement made by the church and the State on the basis of church property. The 1907 accord gave the State the oversight of the entire church's 25% land. Then, in 1997, the State inherited the land. The church handed over its land estates to pay in the form of a certain number of priests and employees. This agreement stands unfashionable and is confirmed in this additional agreement. The same can be said for parishes, social fees, and other main income institutions. They are not directly associated with the Constitution of the National Church. As with other religions in the country, the government collects the fees for the National Church. As mentioned earlier, this agreement involves a major step toward church independence. The church is a religion and a righter of rights and obligations. The church is not a state church, although it has certain ties to the State. Unlike what was before 1997, the Church itself directs itself on the basis of the regulations and regulations given by the Council, the highest government of the National Church, not by General or Minister. It is not affected by the status of the National Church in the Constitution. Mr. President. The nations have been richly involved in the molding and feeding of the history and culture that the Icelandic nation has been experiencing for centuries. It's a national institution that meets old and new, past and present. The church has a valuable work and a broad service based on high values and ideals for cooperation, cooperation, and love of neighbor. It really means a lot, Mr. President, and I welcome this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. Hv. A senator went into it a little bit, saying, if I correctly understood it, that it was a national state with a system of State that had the best interests of tolerance for different religious convictions, religious freedom, and the like. It's in this kind of occasion that I wish we had a device here so we could set up a picture because it's very interesting to see a map of the world where countries are colored to see which one of them has some kind of state or national religion. It is Iceland, Denmark, Norway, Britain, Greece, and is listed in Europe, with the exception of small countries such as Liechtenstein, Monaco, Malta, and the Vatican. [[Up front.]] The rest of you don't have a national church. There is no national church in Canada, the United States, and no national church in Mexico. I now find it rather easy to believe that any European nation, much less Iceland or Denmark, would favor religious freedom and tolerance for different religions than that of other religions. America or Canada. I think that's a very smooth claim, to say the least. However, there are natural, not churches, but alleged nationalists, i.e. Real state space, e.g. In places such as Egypt, Libia, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and other parts of that area, that was why I wanted to ask why. A senator: If the State decided to sell property, say property, tell the Council, or would buy property from others, and have to pay for it forever a price to a certain number of people, just as it is in the church meeting, what would be the cause. A senator say? I'd rather you were. Under any other circumstances, does a senator notice this? Is there another institution or something else in human society, where there's a why. A senator would accept that economic greed for Icelandic taxpayers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I must say that this inquiry, if it can be said like this, or this answer is just a twist. This added agreement is based on the so - called church meeting. That includes, as I traced to my speech and reason. A senator well knows that they were laid for property. Possessions owned by the church were submitted to the State, which replaced it with a price. to pay a priest's salary. This additional meeting we are talking about right now is just a continuation, was paid a certain amount to the church, which she now gives to take care of herself, to hire priests for work, etc. So this is not a similar example. You must see for yourself that this is where property is laid, 25 percent of the country's in this country that's got real estates, real estates. That's what replaced it. You can't put this thing up like that, boy. Senator. You must see for yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u78	The President reminds me of why. Congress officials are required to direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u79	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to do in the situations mentioned. I know what you're talking about. A senator mentioned, and that's what I'm criticizing. I criticize that there's an exhaustive resource, you see, a certain earth, delivered to an inheritance against an infinite price, for that is the course. A senator does not mention his talk, and it seems that a firm fit is not the time. It is not that priests are being paid for a certain amount of time while paying off the property. No, the amount remains forever, as long as the Lord gives us day and night, so let me be a little poetic. But I'm perfectly aware of the arrangement as well. A senator mentioned. That's why I also ask, I wonder. A senator accepts that the same mollusk or comparable, with the same characteristics as described below. A senator, would he be made with some other religion, say the Free Church in Reykjavík or a life - examination society, such as a civilist or some mosque? [[The president calls.]] Would be a what? A senator accepts that? Would he just have the natural trade of the state to pay infinitely high the price of an inexhaustible resource like land?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u80	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic and reminds us of an agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Like what? A senator well knows how the church - the Church - performs many services, and there are numerous and varied church projects throughout the country, special service and psychological care, musical work, and all that is involved in church holiday activities as we know, culture, the musical people within the church are on a global scale, and so on. It takes care of various groups, deaf people, refugees, etc. There are many services being performed. It's given on the basis of an agreement. That's the point. Senator. To enumerate that there should be an agreement with some other community is just a twist and nothing else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u82	Mr. President. It's interesting. A senator uses the word service and lists various services. In his speech, he said that Iceland is a very Christian nation. Today, according to measurements of national church membership, the decrease was 25 percentage points between 1998 and 2019, i.e. not 25%, but 25 percentage points total. Only 46% of the country's population believe in a diagnosis by 2015, and according to the same analysis, 0% under the age of 25 claims to agree with the National Church. All these people, who were under 25 years of age, will soon be 30 in the coming year. I'd like to follow a question. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson as to how much money is justified in paying for this service. How important is the services of few and fewer people? Believe it or not. A senator, for the present state church - and this may be more fundamental - has helped the State Church or restricted it to reach larger people, to expand their ministry, to provide it, and so forth in the streets? Is it possible for the church as it is today to work in a present form without receiving 4 billion dollars, and more than that, payment from a government fund every year on the basis of a contract that seems to never end, despite the fact that at some point in the world all the earth has been paid for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. He noted that there was a great decrease in the number of people in the National Church, and the number of new registrations dropped very much. It should be noted in the material where changes were made in the registration scheme, and this has resulted in a decrease in these numbers. This is because children of parents are not automatically enrolled in the National Church, as was the case with the change. You're right to keep it up. Hv. A senator asked about this service, and that is a very good question. Ideas behind this agreement include: Because it was very difficult to perform this service, e.g. in the country. Those who have recommended a synopsis of full separation of state and church and mention in the context that all agreements with the Church on the part of the State are not to be resolved that this may prevent a major national church work. It is difficult to maintain church activities in small congregations in the country, and there are funds within the church that include. You can search to maintain churches in the region, for example. This is part of our cultural climate as we travel through the country, has a lot of attraction for tourists, etc. This is impossible unless there is a agreement. It's just that simple. It is, of course, involved in this important service that I traced here in a small community. Young people, though they are. A senator specifically mentioned, not particularly interested in church work, I am not sure that it would be. A senator can fit in here. This is once so that when people experience shipwreck in their lives, they often turn to the church, and it gives them a very good service, soul - keeping, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u84	Mr. President. Now, in a very large number of communities, more than one congregation of any kind is active, and most of them do not qualify to receive these enormous amounts of money from a government fund in any form of agreement on land, which is not a complete list, so I know, and I don't know how much they are. But you would have thought that, for example. Other churches may do the same, not to mention the congregation of other religions. I have to stick to it, though, because there's a decline in the demand for the State Church. Even though this survey talked about 0% under 25 years of age, we only see this in other numbers as well. [[The president calls.]] The fact that children are no longer registered in the National Church just for having been born, likely against their parents'will and even their parents'will, is basically just to emphasize the point. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A senator realizes that this will go on in the long run?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I may first want to introduce myself to some churches and some congregations, large congregations, especially in the capital area, without any special contribution from the state. But there are not many of them. This agreement is based on the property I mentioned earlier and we know and we've gone over. For other congregations, it is natural that when they have not put anything in place, such as. Landmarks, they have any claim to special payments. But I remind them that they will be charged with parishes like other religions, so they are kept equal in this regard. But, hey. A senator asks how I can picture this. I can see it so that a very good deal has been made here, which allows the church freedom and opportunity to set her own affairs, especially financial matters, as well as how she organizes church activities, which are only positive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u86	A respectable president. As a joint committee member, I wanted to draw this out from that point of view. Now the National Church is getting here 2.8, almost 2.9 billion, especially, and then they get about that. 2 billion per year. I wondered, " Are not other congregations independent? ' Why do the nations need much more to keep their independence? If we completely ignore the church meeting such a thing, in any other situation it would likely be as independent with just charge as with all other congregations. The law on government finance is exactly about negotiations, with the permission of a president, in 40 C.E. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: In the work programme agreements according to this article, this shall include: Determine the extent and quality of the work involved in the contract, contract time, conditions for contract payment, monitoring of their implementation and handling of problems. None of this, except perhaps the need for the treatment of disagreements, is met in this additional agreement and church agreement as it is. The church meeting was now adopted by law other than public financial law, and it was okay with that. That is an understatement on this issue after 15 years. It's all right with the rules. But in the new law, it's only five years from now. Still, an additional convention is defined as a 15 - year contract. I don't see how it gets to us beyond the standards that public financial law puts a frame around us. I'd like to have just a senator's opinion of this agreement in terms of government financial legislation as a member of the budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and a fine companion of mine on a financial committee. We've talked about this, and this isn't a new needle, like a rough one. A senator knows. This is a contract made on the part of the government and it is likely to be covered, the length of the contract, etc. The point is, there is a service contract. They're buying a certain service for, by the way, that price. For these possessions, it can be said that payment will be paid, which will follow the church service. These interests are at the moment. Of course, the senator's rights are not to be diminished, but I expect the state power or people who made this contract on behalf of the State have discussed these things and had them in mind. I'd say that's the point. Those who made the agreement were guided by a government law on government finance in that regard, I expect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u88	A respectable president. In spite of this, the accordion agreements are the same as the 15 - year - old, not five - year - old, which are climaxed by government laws so that you scratch your head and ask yourself: There is no way that people have a legal law on public finances. Hv. A senator says it's a service contract for property, and I naturally ask: I'm sorry, but these are given property assets that have final value that are likely to stem from commitment over a period of time. Maybe it'll take 100, 200 years, who knows? How much of it is involved in this additional meeting or church meeting, and how much does the service agreement apply to it? It matters because of the surveillance that we then administer in the government law that there are conditions to deliver on public funds, tax dollars. And then we're naturally in charge of the parish, where they just say, "Please." [[The president calls.]] It is collecting for the parishes that such ones can do, and it can be handled in any way that they desire.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We're familiar with the point of the deal. That's a price for those assets. That's the point. A senator knows that. On the basis of this agreement, it is made on the basis of a 1907 agreement, which is then made 1997 at the time of full ownership. First, it is the oversight of the 1907 church property, followed by the 1997 church property. This is the agreement, and it's a new agreement. I mentioned this service specifically, I may not be directly saying that this is a service contract, perhaps not being able to put it that way, but it is a service that is important to our community in my opinion. As I explained here, the church has many services that benefit the entire nation. [[The president calls.]] It's only once like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u90	A respectable president. This case is marked by what I'm going to call superiorityism, the idea that certain social groups should be superior to other groups and special privileges over other groups of society. It is common, but not absolute, that such groups are in greater sections. For example, when it comes to racialism, it is. usually people from the larger group who want to blackmail someone from the smaller group and therefore point out that they are in more parts and always talk about historical roots and that something has been in some way for a thousand years, etc. Sadly, we know this from many sad stories of the world, from the Balkans, Germany, and beyond. This is not prerogativeism on the basis of race that is superior to the superiorism on the basis of religion, i.e. On the basis of the idea that people who accept the Evangelical Lutheran religion are to enjoy special privileges beyond those of other people. Then there is a very short time for people to come up in a pit and start petting themselves on their back, if they believe, because this particular institution, the so - called Church, performs services - like other religious institutions, like other religious institutions, is not open to just anyone, and doesn't invite anyone who is welcome, as if it were. Congress officials could not leave if they were affected in the mosque and asked scholars for advice on mental - health care and the like. Wait a minute. Senators are considering this. I would like to look over the area and listen to the council hearing that there are no particularly many people in the mosque, not that it has anything to do with me or anyone, but I wondered how many people are doing it. Councilmen wanted to consult a religion or an opinion society of whose ideologies they did not accept. A respectable president. That's enough for me. I simply do not believe in the Evangelical Lutheran religion, so I cannot find the salvation of a priest in the same way that someone who accepts that belief. Yet, I am not beinglittled by believing people looking to priests. I'm just saying that not everyone is part of this religion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u91	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u92	I'm gonna go over a word or two. 5th a.m. Reykv.. So, later on, hopefully, in return. Whatever the case, this is really two things, such as the other. 3.m. S.k., Birgir Þórarinsson, covered well, on the one hand the Constitutional support and protection of the Icelandic Church in the so - called Church and the Church Meeting. What we're talking about here is the church meeting thing. I agree with what. A senator and hopefully a former president of the Federal Society that you can really change something without changing the other. I can't see anything that would change with the church meeting in itself to eliminate the 62nd par. the Constitution of a State Church. I can't see it, of course, for limited legal knowledge. On the other hand, this church meeting is all a mark of religion in Iceland, especially because no state would make a deal like the church agreement, except for the general body of Congress, the greater part, conforming to such rituals, I'm going to say, not religious, but sacredity, to the human institution. Only for that reason did they attend the church meeting. I can't imagine a world of Congress ever, or ministers, making a scene comparable to an institution like a Civilt or Vanity. The ability to do what is right. Any senators think of it, or some mosque, or do they just say a youth chess club in Akureyri, if that exists, just some company? I can't imagine that the state would buy land of those companions for literally infinite sum unless these same politicians have a special reverence for this institution because it represents their religious convictions. And it's wrong, you respectable President, to let that be the case when you're making a deal on behalf of all the taxpayers. It's wrong, it's moral wrong, when the government and ministers get involved and plan to negotiate tax dollars with individual agencies not to treat them with taxpayers but to be on the side of those who are being negotiated. That's moralally wrong, a respectable president. It's not a legal question, I just want to say in advance. paritaprevir 5. Smoke. So... and it's about time. I'll only take up the subject of this bill and the additional contract that it's based on and is part of. The church meeting itself is damnable enough, as it lay before 1997, but now it's time to change the arrangement. Some changes are positive, e.g. that the church's employees become, not government employees, but church employees. I think it's okay, but I don't think it's the main thing. The important thing to me is the difference between different religions in Iceland, based on some historic and cultural heritage. It's always thrown up like an excuse for this kind of thing. There are all kinds of things in our historic and cultural heritage, and that heritage is no special justification for continuing things as they are. Men's privileges come to mind. Men have had great superiority here for 1,100 years. Does this mean that men should continue to have this superior advantage? No, a respectable president, that would be a ridiculous argument. To make a little uncomfortable, let me say that the overwhelming majority of Icelanders have been white in the last 1100 years. Does that mean that he should always be white? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Of course not, Mr. Honorable President. It is easy to see how ridiculous such a lawsuit would be as soon as it is transferred to something other than this appointed institution in Iceland today, the National Church. I think they can see that. It's not logical in any way. This does not involve any blame for Christian faith, whether it is Evangelical or Lutheran or both. It's not about that. It's about equality for law. It's about how citizens of the country get equal terms, and that when the government's negotiating with institutions in a town, it's standing with all citizens of the country, not just those who favor the most popular religions at one time. Is it not so strange that it is a special government support, a special government protection, of the most overwhelming and overwhelming religious organization? Isn't that a little strange, Mr. Honorable President? Rather, they should be supportive of lowly ones, smaller communities that also need and are willing to offer up services, salvation, and so forth, doing just the same things that the church does, at least want to do. If many congregations do not do so, I assure them that this is because they lack the support that the National Church receives on the basis of the Constitution, 62. ... and the church meeting. However, something else that will bring up this additional agreement is not as positive as the change with the employees, who are at worst harmless and, at best, only fine. The number of registrations at the church should be stopped to determine the support discussed at the church meeting. It seems so fun to reduce the number of people in the National Church, which is totally normal in view of the fact that society is becoming more diverse, not just because foreigners come into the country, but because society in general has much more access to all kinds of information, it is quite natural that it stirs up a bit in the spirit soup that distinguishes human society. That's a normal development. However, that would mean that, by the 1997 Congregation Meeting, the support given would be diminished. I can't remember the exact number, but it reminds me that once registrations have dropped by 5,000 each time, the support has been reduced, but with the additional meeting, this connection is off. It is an especially convenient time for the Church of America right now. This is one of them, a respectable president, who I just don't think is honest. I don't think it's a good idea to make a deal that is specifically designed to save this religion from the social development that takes place at the same time and that it is always unfounded that it is so highly supported in the community that it is only natural to support it. What will happen when a smaller part of the nation becomes a member of the State Church? What, Mr. Honorable President? Then this agreement will still be valid, and that's what's so bad about it. There is nothing wrong with the government's paying fair price for the assets they buy. That's normal. When you buy land or property, you usually make payments, and the contract has been completed. One day you own this thing and you don't have to pay any more. This is the only deal I ever know, outside the Bible, since it isn't. I'll let them go. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! to correct myself if he chooses and can. The point of this is not to me that this particular institution is fulfilling a certain religious conviction that I myself do not personally believe, not that it has nothing to do with anyone. That's not the point. The point is, I don't think it's fair, not right, nor is it consistent with 65th. The constitution or its spirit, at least, distinguishes people and the services they receive on the basis of what religious convictions they may be. I don't think it's illegal, wrong, and dishonest to put it in someone else's costume but that this is exactly what it is. There's a greater excuse for feeding oneself more quality than the smaller portion, just being smaller because there are some historical roots. I'm not going to argue over it, it's true that Christian faith has historical roots and is a major part of Icelandic history and culture, is historical at least as there are other factors, including bloodbaths and everything. That does not mean, however, that we should remain in a special institution and protect it by paying taxes. I must finally say, a respectable president, that there is in fact only one religion in Iceland that I could consider taking a serious question about whether it would be a serious matter to support above others, and it's the Associative Society. I'm not in it, I've never been, and I don't believe it, at least. Not yet. It is a society that is truly involved in maintaining a cultural and historical heritage that is in much smaller parts and is not certain to survive the development of society if we forget too much of our history and the past that hopefully will not happen. However, Evangelical Lutheran religious convictions are very accessible to all, no problem, of finding and practicing all of them, and of cultivating them without any government support. It's no big deal. I don't know exactly what it's like with the Association Society, but it's about a whole different position. I would like it to be normal, same as I think. It is normal to have special support and protection from the Icelandic language, not because it is in more ways, but because it is in smaller parts of the world. In just a few recent years, despite positive signs, it can diminish and die in a few, if we don't take care of ourselves. Fortunately, thanks to government support and technology development, we are being careful there so that it does not look like it's going to be. To support the largest religion and to do especially well with tax money, people who promote religious convictions of the largest religious organization, is unsaturable. There's no need for any better luck. That's wrong, and we're not supposed to. We should not, for example, do so. United States, Canada, Mexico, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, or Finland No need, a respectable president. It is not demeaning. A respectable president. I'm gonna let that do for now. Let's see if there's a problem. Councilmen use another speech. There are many possibilities, indeed, to this end, not only about the bill itself but also about the history of this agreement and all of it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I'll drop by and give them a heads-up. Senators arguing with me a little bit more about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. I feel that one thing stands out in the case of those I've heard to express myself on behalf of Pirata, but now, of course, I refer especially to the speech of each person. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, it's a little bit like Piratars aren't very interested in interest in interest in growth and interest. When 26◯27% of the land in Iceland is handed over to the country for possession, it is possible to approach matters either because it will be paid the head seat of that debt or with interest from the highest value. It is a well - known term, with the permission of a president, a interest bill without a one - day capital. That's what's going on in this agreement. We're not finding this concept here. If we pay 3.7 billion dollars to the National Church next year according to budget and yield to the rate of 7% interest, the primary value of that letter is 53 billion. If 53 billion are the cost of 26% of the country in Iceland, it is the right of about 2 billion per cent, and I could list a few who would be willing to own 1 percent of Iceland for 2 billion. In this context, it is totally absurd to argue that the State produced itself in this context. This needs to be viewed as paying interest from the payment, the opposition that the government fund received as the government of that time. This is the growing estate, and I have to say for myself that 53 billion headbands - likes it. þm. Is Hrafn Gunnar's son's shrine, then, suggest that a government fund holds its capital if we produce the interest payments I choose to call? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u94	The President still reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u95	A respectable president. I don't exactly remember how many billion people are supposed to go to the church this year, like 2.5 or 3.5 or something like that. 53 billion to finish it - I just think it's obvious we should pay them and finish it. It can be done in years. As I studied in my talk, I feel that I don't have anything wrong with having money and interest in it -- we'll see, I'm not gonna tie myself in it because I don't know what's normal in this sort of business. If the price tag is 53 billion, I think it is a very small amount according to what we will pay according to the other arrangement. According to this, the amount is infinite. We can imagine ten times 53 billion, which is 530 billion, or 100 or 1,000 times a million or a million times a million times 53 billion times - but that is lower than what we should pay according to this because that commitment is forever, respectable president. Fifty-three billion are a well - affordable amount of money, especially over a few years. In recent years, we have made higher personal pay than that of the Council. If you ask me. A senator would like me to put 53 billion in order to finish this case, without question: Yes, clearly, no question about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u96	A respectable president. It is fine then that we have settled that the wealth of government is not paying off the tie of commitment. After that, it's just a discussion about growth. It is a simple matter, and it may even crystallize. with side conversations at the conference hall, Pirats have little understanding of interest. It is not just a lack of interest but a lack of understanding. It is not complicated with growing interest and leading out a capital chair. We can use less of the examples, the one who gets 1 billion. K. A loan of 10% interest and a hundred thousand dollars. That in a year never pays off a crown from the throne. Then the head chair will live into the infinite until the borrower decides to pay off the head seat. It is very good that we have arrived at the point where we are paying only interest on the growth of the churches in the first place. [[Up front.]] Then let us discuss who the principal is and whether we will pay him or continue this interest process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u97	A respectable president. I'll say the final words of what? Senator, I think it's exactly what we should do to find out who the head chair is, how much we're going to pay off from him, and if we want to pay for it. I think it's a great talk. My answer is definitely: It's just that way. It's on Pirata's course, and I don't see any problem with it unless it's working against what we're talking about here. That's not what we're talking about here. That's what Piratar and I have, for example. suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u98	You're saying this is a bad deal, the way the interest money is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u99	I assure you, this contract has been made so that the government has already acquired these earths - by name. In fact, you wonder what this amazing agreement should mean. If the head value is 53 billion, we can at least Pawn on the head chair. Today, no capital chair can be paid because no head chair is recognized. It is not recognized that a head chair is over his head to pay off. Wants a what? A senator joins in with me and others. Marty's members find out exactly how it should be and how we could pay it down when I'm ready for that conversation at any time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u100	V.E.G. President. The discussion about this bill is out and south and is basically completely incomprehensible. [[Up front.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I received a message on my phone earlier from a fine senator that if you ever needed a Lord, it would be in this discussion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The church meeting is scribbling and discussing what is a reasonable amount of money. It's just a deal -- definitely a bad one - but it doesn't matter. [[Up front.]] [[That's right.]] What is involved is that the State receives certain property, but the State is also, as it should be, to support and protect the national church. It's not only in the law, it's in the constitution. This way is gone. It can be criticized in itself, but there is nothing new. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, to support something contrary to some obligation beyond that of others. The state makes contracts like this every year. Some people agree, some don't. The government decides to let the taxpayers pay on the state TV - 5 billion. Why? This is reasoned by a cultural function and is responsible for the medium's duties above the other media. It's no more complicated than that. Some claim that this is morally wrong and that the support of some members of Congress defended their religious convictions. I can tell you what. A senator says I just don't believe in that conviction. Nevertheless, I support a Christian congregation, I support the National Church because it is doing good. She does certain necessary tasks outside of the fact that they are highly cultural and connected with the nation and have been doing so for 1,000 years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to admit that he can criticize this arrangement. That's why we stand up here and do it. It's part of what I get paid quite yet, but some money for doing and will continue to do, especially in view of the firm support of the horse. Senator. Hv. A senator speaks of the Constitution and the church meeting together. These issues are related, and it is unusual for members of the Parliament to discuss related matters together. Hv. A senator also said that it didn't matter that the deal was bad, and there I disagree. Senator. It's important to me that at least the deal is logical. He doesn't even have to be insane, he just needs to be logical. You're right next door. A senator, and I agree, that there is nothing new in the state to support those who serve or have duties. I don't have anything to do with that. I point to the fact that the Federal Republic of Reykjavík also serves and has a duty, including a large number of religions. There is nothing unnatural about the state's paying for what the State chooses to call basic services, say diggers, or something like that. I don't mind that the government is funding it, but that service is funded, and that's not what this agreement is about. This agreement involves the sale of exhaustive property, land, as it is called, for an infinite price due to the nature of the arrangement. And that's what I am, by permission of what. A senator and a president, to criticize.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u102	V.E.G. President. Civilization has no legal obligation. Besides, it's a completely hopeless society that I know, and it's one of the stupidest people in this country for some time. Still, let it be between parts. What kind of deal is this? You're hanging on what's a bad deal or a good deal. We're supporting and protecting the National Church. This agreement is made in this way and is just one aspect of it, apart from the fact that the state receives a lot of possessions in return - probably up to 100 billion. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I'm having trouble with this, okay? A senator, he's amazing. We're just supposed to watch that we're supporting and protecting this nation church. Whether we like it or not, she has responsibilities that are superior to other congregations. It is a Christian congregation. As a Christian culture, we too are expected to read the Bible even if they have no religious convictions, even if only to learn English. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] No one learns English that does not read the Bible. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u103	A respectable president. I think it's gonna come anyway. If a senator knew how much I have read the Bible, it is often the way people start to question what they are taught as children, and especially on barbaric instruction, just to be said. [[Up front.]] In fact, I don't generally think it appropriate for religion or religious conviction to take us to the great General Assembly. I believe in legal equality. I believe in religious freedom, and I believe in more things - whether based on gender, race, religious convictions, politics, or anything. I do not believe, however, that more parts are to be taken for special privileges over others, just because they have more parts. [[For example: Prerogatives?]] Of course, this is a privilege, a respectable president, unless we are not talking about the same thing. Hv. A senator doesn't have to worry that I don't read enough religious literature, I pray. A senator asking my beautiful wife about it. Perhaps I read a little too much of them if there is something, but I may not be interested in studying English, although it is interesting to compare the English language between certain Bible versions. [[Up front.]] For example, the 2007 edition is very interesting to do and how I feel about it. To join me for a cup of coffee at some point, let's read and discuss the Bible. I'm in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator gave a special speech. He discussed special privileges, shrines, moral wrongs, discrimination, etc. I got it. I got it. A senator to turn from such fierce anger and rage to this agreement. I hope that's what it takes. A senator does not wander in the desert for 40 years. The people have spoken. Senator. In 2012, the people agreed, and they wanted a constitution to have a special provision for the State to support and strengthen the State Church. It's gonna be a good time. A senator to accept. This is the conclusion the people came to, and we are to respect. The agreement we're dealing with here is based, so I'll mention it again and again, on the disposition of property and prowess. A senator must understand that. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is it indiscriminate to negotiate? Is it undisputed that the government fund is in the agreements it makes? It'd be nice to have a good time. A senator would answer that. Besides, I don't like it. A senator amused that there was a reduced number of people in the National Church, as he specifically mentioned when he said that there was such a pleasant desire to have a reduced number in the National Church. It's a nonverbal presentation, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u105	A respectable president. In the context of the changes proposed in the additional agreements, irony stated that the number of recorded people in the National Church is no longer taken into consideration. Personally, I don't care how many people are enrolled in the National Church. I view it as none of my business. The only thing that concerns me as a citizen and a senator is to make sure that the citizens of this country enjoy equality in every aspect of society, including the religious. My Criticism to this institution has nothing to do with anything but that. I have no comment on the fact that people believe in the teachings of this institution or that it is part of it, or that the Agency exists, and I don't even comment that this service is funded by the state. I just want it to be equal to other religious institutions if they are to be supported. I hope that's the right thing to do. I don't think it's indiscriminate to make a deal, but it can be indiscriminate. It could be an example if there were 300 percent interest in securities loans. I'd like to see that as a non-compromising deal. But I still like what I do. A senator named the 2012 National Remuneration. You see, I agree with what. A senator says that we should respect that national law. It's because of the reasons I haven't made any changes in the National Churches Act on Porita's bill and later the Union on the new constitution. This is because I want to first validate that constitution, and then I want to continue this long - standing battle that seems to be about putting on real religious equalism in Iceland. It's a separate stroke in my opinion. I'm also only willing to heed the nation's call when it comes to this, when it comes to the phrase of a new constitution, and to follow the results of the 2012 National Code. But I have to ask, " Is it not? ' Similarly, a senator personally obliged to listen to the people's voice in that national payment on the sentence of a new constitution on the basis of a body of governance? I have not been given much support from the Middle Class ranks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u106	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is turning this around. I'm not here to answer. There is freedom of worship in the country, why. A senator, and for the sake of equal costs, there is an equal figure in religion, i.e. all religions are charged with parishion. Which smaller part is the whale. A senator talking about? Did not the majority of the people give their opinion and want to support and strengthen the State Church? I can't quite figure out which part of it was mine. A senator is talking about this. He also discussed religious convictions, that we are supporting this matter because of religious convictions. It's a deal that's made, and we deal with it, huh? Senator. This is an implementation of an agreement made in 1997. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: Would he be better off if this was a deal with Civilt? Is that what it is? A senator is talking about religious convictions? Is he so vicious because we have religious convictions and therefore support? I don't quite understand why. A senator when he puts things in such a way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u107	A respectable president. I'll follow through on the 2012 National Code, if that's the case. A senator would like to join me to that. I haven't said there's no religious freedom in Iceland. I've said there's no religious equality, actually I don't remember how I put it exactly every time, but I spoke earlier about the equality of the law and the equality of the citizens in terms of how the government deals with organizations in town. Hv. A senator asked if I was not upset that this agreement was not with Civilt. As I have considered before, in fact, not in a speech today, I would be just as mad at a comparable agreement with any institution, whether it was a civil or some other institution. Civility accepts the so - called parishion, and I'm against it. I'd like to cancel that arrangement. I feel that way because my attitude toward the way the law is supposed to be in the country and the role of the State is independent of my religious convictions or my principles. This is different. I'm very easily able to separate these two. [[The president calls.]] However, it seems obvious to me that this high-priority and absurd agreement since 1997 would never have been accepted if it had not been for the religious convictions of the senators who agreed to accept it. I just think that and maybe it's wrong, hopefully it's wrong, but I can't see better than that it's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u108	President. I'm coming up here because we're at the government opposition, at least. I, we made it clear that we were about to complete a meeting around the time. 17 for a storm. Schools are closed. The camp, shops, and businesses have been closed, but for some reason, we're still here, and I hear from President now that this meeting isn't going to be completed at 17. I wanted to read to the president what the highest part was. Prime Minister wrote on his Facebook page. A nationwide catastrophe is being foretold today. I urge all of us to be careful today and tomorrow and not be unnecessary. The U.S. Marshal's Department police and public security department, rural staff, ambulances and firefighters, etc. I just wanted to make this statement, and I'm asking for answers about how long we're supposed to stay here. The members of the Generals and members of the Parliament need to get back to their homes. If there is a real danger that threatens us over a storm of getting to our home, I suggest that we get the answers to the times when it will be all right to complete this meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u109	The information presented here is that a meeting was scheduled for completion. 17th
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u110	And hasn't it... have it been confirmed? President said it wasn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u111	Then all I have to do is get more information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u112	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. I'm impressed that when the first Santa Claus comes to the ground, the General President seems to be completely horrified by the deer. I think this meeting board is very peculiar. It just so happens that I'm not new in this room, and I don't understand why we always have to end up in these tire tracks, why the senator's officers, those with more parts, can't simply sit down and sync as we finally have to do - let's just speak English altogether. This little strip contest is a fool for everyone. While Icelanders prepare for bad weather, as noted, we are discussing the affairs of the Church of America, with full respect for it. I think it's a very peculiar message that, if it's true, it should be there to speak in the evening. How beneficial it would be to get an explanation for whether we will continue until the end of the week! 17 or not. Some of the district councils have gone home, including by e-mail sent by the president of the council. [[The president calls.]] Similarly, the workers were granted permission to leave at about the same time. 15th I feel that a meeting administration in itself is insurmountable in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u113	V.E.G. President. I hear there's some conversation in the side room. We have, for example, seen this happening before, that people talk about quitting at certain times, but that is not the case. The third pack of energy is a good example. But I'm wondering if there's any explanation --
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u114	The President's asking for some quiet time in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u115	I'm going on, Mr. Honorable President. It's already the word to at least One of our members will not be able to return home, where the Kililarnes have been shut down, opening a mass relief station. Also, I understand that there is a storm storm on a Smokey Way and that one of us had to leave to get to his house so that I encourage a president, if it is right, that there are instruments to go on or not, we should hurry to break up this meeting so that the councilmen and employees can reach home. I'm not gonna talk about it if the Prime Minister has already said we should get home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-10-42.u116	That's exactly what the President intends to do, end a meeting.
