ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u1	I'm going to be remembered by a former general. Jón Helgason, former president of United States Generalis, died on Tuesday, April 2. at the nursing and residence of Caucasium at 87 C.E. Jón Helgason was born in a Segregian camp of the land on October 4, 1931. His parents were the husband and Gyðríður of a farmer in Pálsdóttir Jónsson. Jón grew up in Segrella, where we lived for the rest of our life. He was a good student. A student's test opened from the University of High School in Reykjavík, 1950, but it did not result in any further education. After his father's unexpected death, he returned to his home, stood before his mother's sheep farm in Segregation, and became a farmer there in 1959. In addition, he received training in the country in 1966,1970. Jón, a young man, became involved in politics for years. So he organized himself into the ranks of the candidates, and worked with their companions in their homes, and later became one of the business leaders there. He was elected to the 1966 Steepps Committee and served there for 20 years, ten years as an odd beacon. He was elected to the national company of farmers, sitting at a multi-private assembly, meeting a farm union, sitting in the manufacturing council and management of the founding department. He was chairman of Iceland's Farm Company in 1991 ◯1995. Jón Helgason was the first member of the General Assembly in March 1972, but he was elected General of the 1974 election and served continuously for over 20 years, or to 1995, in a total of 25 legislatures. As a senator, Jón used the most agricultural and interests of the country. He was also very thoughtful about binding, and he was able to support himself in that matter, both in the General and outside. He also performed some international work on the council. During an uncertain period and much political turmoil after the election in December 1979, Jón Helgason was elected president of a united assembly before much of the council was formed and served until 1983, while he became minister in the state of Steingrímur the son of Hermannsson, the first. He handled agricultural and judicious affairs and then a agricultural business in the state of the Þorsteinn of Pálsson Paul Paulsson, 1987 ◯1988. Then he withdrew from the minister's chair and was elected president of the upper branch to serve as office until 1991. Besides, he was a few vice presidents. After the end of the council in 1995, Jón became a prominent member of the National Church, the first president of the Council after the approval of a national church law in 1997, molding the work of the Senate for the first year of its firm and safeness to the members of the Parliament. He quit that job in 2006 and then withdrew from employment in a public field. All those who met Jón Helgason had confidence in him for orderliness and conscientiousness, hard work and ability, extraordinary smoothness and tact. He was especially perceptive in his work and comfortable in cooperation. Still, he was able to stick to and stick with him, even though he was kind. Jón Helgason's son became an object of high and important office at the head site, but he was most impressed with his own people at the home of Segrets. I would like to ask the U.S. Congress to remember Jón Helgason, former president of the Generals, by getting out of bed. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u2	Borist's letter from Helga Vólna Helgadóttir, Bragi Bjög Sveinsson, Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Sunna, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdótir and Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson that they could not attend the council in the near future. A letter has also been received from the chairman of the Central Party for the failure of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, to be able to perform congregational duties in the near future. There has been a letter received from the Central Party acting chairman of the council that Bergþór Ólason cannot attend next session. As reported on the Generals' Web site, Thursday, April 4, Páll Valur Björnsson, 1st, on the Society's list in Smoke. n., U.S. council member as your deputy. On Friday, April 5th, Simon Sigmundsson, a deputy of the Central Party in Northdust. "and Una María Óskarsdóttir, a deputy of the Central Party in Southvest. "City of the Council as a guard. Today, on Monday, April 8th, we are taking a seat at the General Assembly, who was a deputy of the 1st Pirata in Smoke. s., Olga Margrét Cilia, 1 strategist of the left movement's list of green bids in Southvest. "Hildardóttir Heldirdóttir, 1 strategist of the Gangs in Southvest. "Jónína Björk Óskarsdóttir, and 1st goody of the Central Party in Norway. Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. They are all invited to serve again at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u3	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1091, of the Committees, Task Forces, Professional Groups and Ministry Council, from Inga Sæland. There have been nine letters received from the Ministry of Education and Culture where request is made in order to provide written answers to the following questions: On request. 579, on reimbursement in high school, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to a threshing floor. 930, on the increase of sexual education at all levels, from Una Hildardóttir; on the icicle. 946, about the income of the state radio, from Óli Björn Kárason; on the icicle. 977, the subject of the National Sound Library of Iceland, of the Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, on the icicle. 992 on the software system School problem, from Smári Mccarthy; on the deck. 993, about Mentor's software system, from Smári Mccarthy; on a deck. 994, on the Inu software system, from Smári Mccarthy; on the deck. 1003, the responsibility for protecting children from harassment, from Jón Þór Ólafsson, and from threshing. 1031, for subscriptions to newspapers, magazines, and other media, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u4	To answer, Ministers of Economic and Economic Affairs, Education and Culture, Tourism, Industrial and Neony Ministers and Ministers of Justice, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Foreign Ministers, and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u5	Mr. President. I'm glad that half of the contracts have been reached, and I would like to commend the labour market's employees, especially for driving governments to submit measures that they had even refused a few weeks ago. However, there is quite good talk of a universal agreement on the part of the government. First, there is no fundamental change in society, although it is certainly a joy to see action directly toward the lowest paid classes. Governments do, e.g. no attempt to deal with the problem of possessions is increasing. Second, large groups of public markets that have taken up a long course of study and communityly valuable work without appreciation are to be negotiated. Third, this agreement simply has little to do with the number of people. I can mention disability, the elderly, and especially the students. I want to talk about them with the highest. Minister. In recent years, young people have remained in the standard of living and have a higher education loan than they have. Students in the North. Today, about half of the Icelandic students are borrowing in the student country. These people can choose a home anywhere on earth, and Iceland is unlikely to be the first choice in their present situation. A new arrangement shows that the move will take place and that it will not take into account the change in prices. This, in fact, is a reduction in the value of a single currency in in inflation, which, of course, means a decrease in power of purchase. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of two questions: Is she going to watch these important people fall behind in terms now that others are getting needed dressbacks? And second: Is it not afraid of a nation's wisdom leakage along with such developments?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u6	A respectable president. I welcome the interest shown by the chairman of the United States Department by the Icelandic student funds and the student chosen. Indeed, he says that how we handle this class is of vital importance. It's a real pleasure to say that we've been raising the holiday market about 43% between the years, and this was, as noted in the student case, one of their biggest juries, for which they have rejoiced. Secondly, the national budget is now presented in a substantial system modification of the student loan system, and we have not been in such changes since 1992. Finally, there is a government that has the courage and courage to change the system and to change it so that things will be taken care of. And what is the basis for this system change? Yes, it is in Iceland that the ideals of students will be comparable to those in the North and second, that family conditions do not have to contribute much more to a person's debt, e.g. A husband and wife with children or something like that. I am very proud to see at last this dramatic change in system life and that the benefit of students will be very different from that of the previous students.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for an excellent offer. Of course, I support her in changing the loan policy. This is simply not the question. It's true that the holiday goal has gone up. But it had not gone up for very many years and was about time. Of course, students should not rely on working hard. There are other things in the rules that I can make. Once during study periods, four or five years of training, students who go abroad will receive strength from the State. But here, Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister for basic progress. I don't need a second speech on what she intends to do and about courage and courage and hard work and the forwardness of the present government. All I want is to hear: One minister puts it to the point that basic progress increases according to what other groups are now receiving in collective agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u8	A respectable president. It may be frustrating for the chairman of the United States to know that there is so much being done in this series of issues. I understand that he wants to take part in this journey because it's going very well. He asks about a leak of wisdom. Then I can inform the U.S. Congress that a minister standing here had a meeting with an economist who was asking us for the first time that we would review these statistics, get information on the education levels of immigrants and immigrants from the country. It's the first time we've been doing this. With the student's interest, the system change and the new system I'm in is presented in the five-year budget, so we're going to lower the principal loans for students by 30%. That means that a couple who have completed their studies in Sweden owed about 16 million in the old system and owes less than 7 million in the new system. This is a fundamental change in the interests of Icelandic students.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u9	A respectable president. It seems that no one has overlooked that we are discussing a huge case today, the third energy package called. An interpretation proposal comes from the highest level at this time. Secretary of state. It has been reported on the Ministry's website at the highest level. Minister had a conversation with Miguel Arias Cañete, the European Commission of Energy. V.E.G. A minister has repeatedly stated in the media that there are certain warnings in the agreement so that the sea is in doubt that there is no real first step toward linking us with the energy market of Europe. I'd like to know at the highest. Minister whether this was not a informal conversation and how well he believes this one was to be held in view of the fact that he has, for example, been present. The joint EEA committee has not been submitted. This is a fundamental factor that we need to be clear because, as it is known, the community is insecurity and a measure of fear has taken over us. Some would like to call it fear propaganda and such, but should we not just try to do so in harmony and harmony so that everyone can enjoy it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I want to start by saying that I'm very pleased with the tone that goes by. Senator. You see, I think it's very important in this case, which many declarations have flown around and I think it's quite safe to say, "There's been an attempt to scare a lot of people. " I think it's right to approach it exactly like what it was. A senator does. Let us discuss this calmly, review it carefully, and present the facts. Then we should think about it in terms of one Icelandic interest. That's all we should think about, in my opinion. You see, I've been kind of thinking. Because in all this discussion, it is, at least in my memory, the first time foreign people are involved in Icelandic politics. They're not taking care of Icelandic interests. So I'm speaking very clearly here, I refer to a union and political party in Norway who will not be afraid to walk in here with anyone for statements on these matters that, if ever, will not be able to stand. I just want the discussion to be in the same tone as the rest of the day. A senator has concluded that we are going over this, reviewing all the claims that have come out and considered them. Because this is the way to reach a conclusion. Whatever it is. A senator points out that this was a joint resolution on my part and on the EU Energy Minister, a so - called political declaration, which I consider helpful in the discussion. It is no less than that. Never has it ever been claimed that it is anything more than exactly that. But these things were of value to men, even to those who have made this approach in a perfunctory way. However, the point is being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answer. Yeah, it's a little interesting, but we're at least making it clear that it was a informal conversation that really doesn't involve any warning. In fact, there is no premise in our life. No one. Then we'll have to approach things a little different, and thank you very much. Minister for the fact that we're going to take the conversation, hopefully in behalf of all of us. What is it with the Norwegians he says is making a scene here with us: Witches are generally very conflicted with their rise in energy prices. I know that the Icelandic consumers would be too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, if indicated earlier, has misunderstood the matter if she had felt that the warnings we have taken to this point were directed against the political proclamation. That's never been said. The premise is that we are not connected to the EU electronic energy market, and this would only happen if a cable was laid. What is being done in the council, a respectable president, if plans are made, is making it more difficult to believe that this is not done unless the General comes to such a decision. It's all in our custody, and it's coming even. pointed out in the statement cited, and it points to the obvious. Because we were discussing the Norwegian organization that is using them, they're not thinking of Icelandic interests. They've been fighting for a very long time to get Norway out of the EEA business and are trying to figure out what they can in Iceland to do to damage that cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u13	Mr. President. Istavia has a unique position as the beginning and end of everything in flight here. The enterprise operates in accordance with the general government policy since August 2012, highlighting the terms of acceptable growth and maintenance of income-based property from enterprises owned by the State. I know we're at the highest. Ministers agree that this general policy does not meet the demands of a partner's policy with the same uniqueness as with the effect of Istavia. I know this because the government wrote in its government covenant that such a policy would be developed. Few people have the opportunity to have as much influence on the development of tourism in Iceland as is Istavia. The Society has been very busy in the news recently around bankruptcy and WOW's collapse, but now, now, at the last time, in the case of Sturludóttir, Mayor of Akureyri, to the government. ▪ Iceland, by permission of a president, was told by Ásthildur in his new article: ▪ Like a house in which everyone is invited to climb in and out of one door. In this article, the mayor calls for the needed construction of the airport in Akureyri as an international flight station. And then I come to my questions. I would have liked to have a place to speak here at the highest level. Minister of Tourism for the Convention of State Policy on Air traffic and linking to travel services. At an open meeting of the employment committee last week, the minister said that the work is being done at the Ministry of finance and referred to the discussion there. That's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: How does work shape Istavia policy, and when can a decision be expected? The highest. A minister informs me and a body of council on what issues is laid down there to lay the foundation for that work, above the requirement of making acceptable provisions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u14	A respectable president. I think that if Istavia can be a great incentive for the development of tourism in the country, then the company must have done very well in recent years, as it may be estimated, an excessive rise in travel services in which the number of visitors have been measured for tens of years after a year - but now only times have changed. To answer the question about tenure policy, it is in progress and is intended to become more detailed than a general policy, taking into account the goals we especially want to achieve in the field of work performed by the Society. Some things I think we need to look at when considering a tenant policy for Istavia are factors such as how much we will assign our company to do a work that it has not had direct obligation to care for until now. They may be viewed and, in particular, by the internal flying system in the country. I have to say for my part that I have sometimes found that here at the council, people have not been prepared to face the expense that falls because Iceland is a relatively populated country, which is a major cost of holding many powerful international airports. This cost cannot be hidden by inserting it into a partner, although it works well for others. I'm going in my later answer to get a little closer to Akureyri in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u15	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm feeling a little bit that we're not talking about exactly the same things. This was not to suggest that by a new and changed tenant policy, it was not taking place in the number of tourists or that Istavia did not do well in increasing the number of tourists but was merely to mention the fact that during the period of growth, there was a considerable comment that the potential need for people somehow, i.e. The state of our possession, including Istavia, to influence the way tourists would like to get in and through the cana; about which airports are involved. I'd like to think about it a little bit, and I'm glad the Minister is going to get closer to Akureyri. But I'm also wondering if at this level of work in the state's new tenure policy on Istavia, it should also not be determined that policies for tourism should be developed in general and related to the top. A minister would not agree that it would be reasonable for a minister of travel to be a member of that company. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u16	A respectable president. I don't think it's key to how you're gonna fit into the Istavia board. I don't think we have any particular example of the problem with the administration order. I would like to tell you about Akureyri that throughout the years, especially the international flight, it has not suffered from a lack of facilities. It has simply not been to distribute any direct international flight. For one thing, a few years ago a special flying fund, the money of earmarked ears, was established to promote this aspect of the country. It has been achieved so that we have had our brother's share of the year regular flight into areas that have yielded a positive effect on the entire Northland. That's what we'll find when we visit them, not just in Akureyri, but in all the north. And as a result of this change, it has become urgent to resolve the situation on the Akureyri Airport. [[The president calls.]] They are completely unsurpassed, at the very moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u17	Mr. President. Dissatisfaction is now part of the legal profession by order of a transition leader to the WOW F. An opaque process at the switcher command in the area of swelling is considered. A recent interview with two law-enforcement women was made, with the permission of a president: It is not surprising that two middle - aged men are appointed over this large population. That's just what's going on and happens every day in our business. I'm sorry. It seems that me and my wife are not entrusted to these large farms. They also criticize that there are no rules about the transition managers' order of swellingrs, and that only the demanding crew can monitor the registration of time numbers. They do not say that there are any specific rules and that judges are placed in their own jurisdictions. It is evident that the women are significantly confined to an order in a large swollen farm. Then consider whether it is appropriate for a lawyer to be the switcher of two large swellingers at the same time, i.e. The same lawyer as it is in the case of the newly appointed exchange manager over WOW's swelling quarters. It has also been heard of the fact that district courts are contributing to high interests by their own suitable policy. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: What rules apply to the spread of swellings to local courts and believe that the procedure of the switcher's order is acceptable enough? Second, is there reason to change the law or to set guidelines to the courts regarding the order of the switcher?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's inquiry and respond here as best he can. I don't know exactly how the process is with the courts, but the Court administration is conducted by the courts and is an independent administrative agency. It was established in January 1, 2018, and since then it has been building this environment in this field. So I'd think it was something the Court's Office could be concerned about. I agree with what. A senator that matters that these objects are transparent and the method of these distributions, like everything else in the courts of the country and the rest of those who have official authority. Of course, the laws on equal positions and equal rights of women and men and the viewpoints in them apply to the transitional regime. It's a general law. I think it would be normal for the Justice Department to look at these factors in terms of quality control of exchange management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister may want to add two questions. True, it was the highest. Minister only to the second question. But then I'd like to step aside to sensory differences in these materials, i.e. when it comes to the mobilization of large swollen persons to the switch director of the courts. Does a minister know that there is a gender difference in these areas? Then I'd like to step in on the equality laws. Does a minister think that the viewpoint of equality laws to be balanced and to work for the equal influence of women and men in the community applies to the distribution of judicial projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u20	Mr. President. As I entered my previous answer, I believe that equality laws apply to a switcher like any other factor. Without any comment on this intervention or that judge or that court, I have, as it were, a view, not of it, but of how it is divided and how it comes out between genders. Nor do I know whether there is a big difference between those who desire it or how it is assigned. I don't have a perspective on it. But I think it's safe to keep our eyes on the fact that we have work to do in this area. This is true of legalism, such as in other parts of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u21	A respectable president. Last week, I attended a convention of research sites around the North, which included the title Warning from the North. The importance of reaching the 1.5°C target. There, a number of scientists discussed the effects of climate change in northern regions, including Iceland. Among others, Dr. Michelle Schaeffer, an organization of Cimate Analytic, evaluate the impact of government policy and action in national countries in reducing carbon emissions and in fulfilling the conditions set by the Paris Treaty themselves in 2015. The result is striking. The vast majority of the world's countries are far from achieving their goals in the Paris congregation and even if they succeed, they are far from limiting greenhouse gas emissions in the way of achieving an increase of below 1.5 °C. The vast majority of countries are heading toward not even limiting emissions to 2°C worldwide. Based on current policies and government policies, emissions will always be 4.4°C higher by 2100, but based on the most optimistic projections, emissions will still be 3 °C. Iceland alone will have very little success in the context of the parts worldwide, so I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister: What action is being taken to ensure the success of international cooperation, then with other world environmental ministers, or in any other way, in order to encourage the kingdoms of the world to keep their goals and, of course, to expand? We need to trust that all other kingdoms will fulfill their commitments as well as our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u22	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. It is true that when you look at the common goals set by the international community, we are not enough to keep global warming within 2°C, let alone 1.5°C if compared with 1,750 as usual. Once, it was a distant future, perhaps, to have to deal with climate problems, but that is not the way it is anymore. We look now at the year 2030 through the Paris Convention and then look to the middle of the century when we are talking about balance, or noncarbonity, when it comes to these matters. What Iceland has done in climate - and I thank you very much for this question, which suggests a little how small countries and islanders can try to make a positive impression on this subject - is it not only the Minister who stands here but also the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs, prime minister, and others in the international field have promoted the need for the world's kingdoms. But from January onward, I can specifically mention the declaration of the prime minister of the northern countries. who say that the North countries want to promote cooperation in their aim to be more successful, including pressure to put both the European Union and other countries on setting an ambitious goal, especially now that the Paris Convention is to contribute 2020 new commitments. In this statement, the prime minister also stated that by the middle of the century in all the states of the north, there should be a lack of carbon. In fact, the next step will be taken in this work on Wednesday when environmental ministers of the north meet at a meeting here in Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u23	President. As we all know, global warming is a recipe for extreme disasters. There's no way Iceland is left out there, e.g. because of melting the earth and acidification of the sea. The conference stated that in the next 80 years, acidification of the ocean will destroy fish in Iceland. I hope we're gonna make some meat for them. We must be leading in encouraging other countries to stop carbon gas emissions. One idea that has been tore in this context is to introduce carbon gas emissions regulations to free trade agreements. Such a law would be similar to the rules of human rights for the current vacation agreements. It could be our most powerful tool to get other countries to live up to their commitments, which have been just the problem so far. What's your position? A minister to take such resources into free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u24	V.E.G. President. Now, I think most ministers would like to answer this, so there are a number of questions that will be raised in the future. I just wanted to add a previous answer and also mention that Iceland has long led to land healing in international cooperation and international fields. There we have tremendous opportunities to increase our understanding of how land can be restored, land transplants, and forestry as one of the devices used to master the climate. It is very important that we look to it, even as these are natural solutions, using more of our goals than these. You know, about the vacation contracts, it's not something I've been over. But I am, like a whisk. The senator knows very much when it comes to trying to deal with climate issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u25	Mr. President. In fact, it was in the past many long political parties, a highly valued and dignified category, not the highest category. Secretary of state, who proclaimed that way in Icelandic politics, he called the other way. The motto was, "There's only one way, the other way. " This comes to mind, Mr. President, when we read the opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson son of Hirst. It can only be seen that they feel this way, if I may allow myself to say so, that what should be done under the conditions of the third energy package is to refer to this case on the basis of the European Economic Area Convention for the Conspiracy of the Joint Committee. On the basis of the rules of the same contract, this treatment would be carried out under the rules of the judicial hearings laid down in it. They say: A possible solution could be that a third pack of energy will be introduced into Icelandic rights but with legal notice that its laws on cross-border structures do not grow in force, since such infrastructure is not intended for going on land. In their opinion, they say and double it to the highest degree. Apparently, a minister is not faultless. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What legal considerations are available at this time as they are spliced in a legal way so that the weather is possible. Do members of the council value it on such grounds? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u26	A respectable president. I want to point 'em. A senator is expected to be less than or never to have done the same preparatory work as in this case when it comes to similar matters. Just to make it perfectly clear, because of what. A senator with the permission of a press release and the attorney Stefán Stefánsson, professor of the Year Friðriksson, says: In this way -- the proposed issue of governance is set aside and the Regulation is introduced on the grounds that its regulations regarding the cross-border transfer of electricity are not relevant here and therefore not of a reasonable relevance. This means, in effect, that their values depend on certain deadlines. The premise of this solution is that the third energy package does not add to Iceland's obligation to establish ground-to-border structures. It is a matter of decision on Iceland's custody. This is one of the methods proposed by our Friðrik and, in our opinion, the recording and implementation of the structure by this constitution, as there is a legal advantage that these specific requirements are not to be carried out until the legal basis, including the administrative issue, has been implemented at the Council. It is also important to have achieved with the European Commission's energy administrator a common understanding of the European Union's core and specialisations of Iceland. Even though such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance and meaning in this context, to be said Professor Stefán Stefánsson. A respectable president. I think this statement, this statement, answers the question of why. The senator is very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It may be helpful to note that a great many pages depend on those who want to study these subjects. There's a lot of thought. What I asked the highest. A minister was considered to be on the way, the other way, which is now on the table, the one that appears to have been chosen by the highest order. Minister. It is as though I could in my first speech, when discussing this, that it is not without blemish. The authors of the ratings choose to complete the group's opinion, which covers more than 40 pages, by repeating it. It is the last thing that the readers of this form of opinion see, these words: That way, though, is not flawless. That's why, Mr. President, I asked the highest. Ministers on where they were the legal instruments in which this is the autopsy and the defects mentioned by the fine writers biblished in their opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u28	A respectable president. I'm not going to read again what I read earlier. Hv. A senator can read it for himself. It was not just these lawyers who evaluated these matters, there were two others from the State Department, and then two others, when it came to the case at the highest level. Secretary of the trade. This is simply examined by all these scholars. The most conservative members, if we can say so, come along the way. It is not that, most respected president, there was a solid agreement on this aspect of the matter, and therefore, on the basis of political precaution, this way has gone. Hv. A senator asks if it was some legal opinion. Yes, they're in the council arrangement, a respectable president. This is the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u29	Mr. President. I'm glad I can only talk about education at the highest level. Secretary of education and them in connection with the way we see the challenge of increasing Iceland's competitiveness. I'll direct you to the highest level. Minister: Will Ministers consider improving the education environment, especially international schools and departments in elementary and educational schools, with the goal of making it easier for Icelandic companies to attract foreign experts and their families? And if so, how? I know that a minister has followed it closely at repeated conventions, conferences, and found ways to increase the competitiveness of our Icelanders. I'm not going to talk about the crown and the change of currency - though it's natural at the top of the circle. But there is often evidence that the environment here, including the education system, needs to be that way that we can actually be an option and attract a foreign labor force and foreign experts; but also an alternative for Icelandic families who have been abroad, and we are trying to get home, in order to, in particular, strengthen the pioneers and the proservatories, but also larger companies. We're seeing large companies that need to connect to and attract foreign workers and foreign experts, whether we're talking about Marel or any other firm - in the field of high - tech technology. It is of great importance that we ensure that foreign experts in this country will be equipped so that international activity can also exist. Part of it, as we know, is education. The education system is tremendously supportive and supportive of the way we are going to build on the Icelandic knowledge company so that they can offer, temporarily but also temporarily, families - and I know it myself from my former duties as Minister, both in the sea - style field and also in education, that it is more often than not that the experts come here temporarily. They don't come here with their families, including. Because we don't offer enough options for them. But at the same time, I'd like to stress that there's some work here, including... A worldwide school that has had tremendous significance for this environment. But I know it's the highest. Ministers have such ambitions and a certain view. Therefore, I would like to ask: The education system, the international departments - how can we strengthen them so that by our education system, we contribute to a competitive, competitive spirit in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u30	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for performing a speech chair discussing the education system. I'd like to start by saying that, of course, what matters most is that our entire education system is competitive. After much careful consideration of international comparative studies, it may be three principal features of an outstanding educational system. I'm going to start by mentioning it, before I begin to answer how we deal with international schools. First of all, that is a mental attitude. Government opinions at a level of government, that they decide to prioritize money for the education system - and do that, will fulfill it. That government certainly has. There is an extra donation for high school and college. Great and ambitious policy takes place. Second, which I really wanted to call first, is that the teacher's working environment is outstanding. If the national community is to be well considered, it must be kept in mind that its teachers are ruling. And all the educational systems that are competitive and that attract both young and young people and those who want to go to college are so strong that the teacher's position is very strong. And third, it is important that our mental attitude is in a way that all can learn, that learning is an opportunity for young ones and that young people are capable of enjoying themselves. These three things must be there. Sadly, in recent years it has happened that we have a great need for teachers. This occurred after the study was extended. As a result, attendance at teachers'studies reduced, and we have had to take extensive measures to reverse this trend. They were introduced in the beginning of March, and they assume that the final year of training will be paid. We're talking about scholarships for teachers, and we're now, from last year, finally seeing - for the first time after a massive reduction - an increase in the classroom, about 50% at the University of Akureyri, and 15% at the University of Iceland. Clearly, if we are to have an excellent, competitive educational system, we need to consider these factors and especially the teachers of the country. We have an international school that has done quite well. I agree with what. A senator's role in competing for habitat conditions is that it is important and increasing with each passing year. It is easier for people to move abroad than before to take root. One of the main factors people consider when choosing farm land is education and their quality. This is something that people really care about. We know it both within the state and within the state. Clearly, we need to ensure that our schools are accessible to them and that they are well compatible with them. In Iceland, two schools of foreign study are now being conducted: Self - expelled elementary school, i.e. The International School of Zealand at the Gardenville I recently visited, and the other is in a ward in public high school, called IB School for High Schools at Hamrahömund, which provides comparable rights to the student's test. In addition, in 2015 an international department was formed to meet the needs of people who move to the country because of their employment with school - age children and for families of foreign descent who move to the country. The branch is also open to others. The Department is fired with a warrant from the Ministry of Education and Culture as a Developmental School. The National Institute of Education has received data from the school on the acceptance of Cambridge Assessment in the department and the translation of Reykjavíkurburg at school, and the review of this project will be completed in spring. I agree with what. A member of the council that there is a great opportunity for us to offer studies in international and international schools that are in public recognition. One thing that the Landachots School has mentioned is to extend the study. I'm very positive about that. I believe that it can be a great advantage to have studies from six years of age up and through and finishing high school there. [[The president calls.]] But first and last, it is important that we take great pride in this so that we can attract people who are ambitious for education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u31	V.E.G. President. I just want to thank you for this inquiry. I'm a little curious about knowing, and I'd like to ask the highest possible questions. A minister here is talking about building a teaching class and competitiveness: We were discussing in the past to talk about dyslexia and other such things, and we found that the results of the next successful classes are in building up the teachers'class. Only in the past did a minister come to realize that there was a career in giving strength and so on. I might have wanted to ask the minister a little bit better into that, if he could take a little more details on whether there's more work going on there. I listened to a show during the days that have been a few Sundays in a row about a leak of wisdom. Then there is education that is applied to other countries, and knowledge is not coming home again. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to ask the Minister about this by building the teachers' class for further success in education for children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u32	Mr. President. This answer, at least during the first part of the discussion, provides reason for us to take up a special discussion at the highest level. Secretary of the teacher, the teacher's environment, about the teacher's study and what we're thinking. These were fine thoughts, but the important thing is to get answers to questions, such as how we promote the international and international schools. Of course, part of it is a teacher's working environment, how we make it attractive to work both in high school, in high school, and in the international departments. I found it very interesting to hear about the University of Landakot, and I would like to hear a little more about him about what the minister's mind is to extend the study there. That school, if I understand the highest. Minister correctly, is applying to continue the study after high school ends - how does a minister like that go to elementary and high school and go to a school in Moso, where the school is, to remind me, from two to ten years of age and in school, overlaps - play and elementary school, elementary and after school? What is developing there? I think it might be helpful, including in connection with international departments or schools. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, based on the answer she gave earlier - it's good to review the situation as it is today: Do you see a minister of any other options in the pipes to promote the International and International Schools? Is some kind of consultation, for example. to the business community, business council, to this company that protects the interests of the companies? Because it is their responsibility for how we can attract foreign experts, temporarily or inaccessible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u33	A respectable president. The reason I respond in such a decisive way and the subject of the teachers and their working environment is very simple. If these matters are not right, we will not be able to attend a school that is competitive. I'm going to point it out to you. A senator to look at the foundation as well. We need to go back a little bit and be with a stronger foundation. You see, one of the things a company and an international company looks to, and I want to direct it to what. A senator, who is: What is the state's position to form in PISA? And Iceland's position is not good enough. We've been falling behind. We are now at the bottom of reading, math and natural lock in the North countries and under the OECD average. We need to improve the foundation of Icelandic education. Of course, the journey that has begun in this regard turns first and last to the teachers so that they feel that they have tools and tools to improve our education system. That's where we start. One down. A senator asked about the procedures we are going into. Of course, it's quite remarkable because I think that this time it is the first time to engage in activities with the government in cooperation with the rural communities based on performance predicting. To say, the situation in 2018 is this, we have so many teachers, but we lack so many teachers in 2032. So we're very forward with these actions. It costs about 250 million a year and is fully financed in a new financial program. But I say, the most important thing is to build up the foundation. If the foundation is good, we'll have an excellent education system, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u34	V.E.G. President. I'm asking for the highest. Agricultural minister to determine the results of a new risk assessment of dog imports due in April 2018, and Dr. Preben Willeberg does for the Ministry. What are the estimates? You should point out that it is high for two years since it was decided to go on. In the meantime, the minister decided to make a new risk assessment that had not been taken for more than 10 years to review whether new science, vaccines and intensive monitoring could be used, especially in Europe, to facilitate the use of new science, vaccines and intensive monitoring. Animal owners, pet owners, take home animals and increase animal living and reduce the pain of animals. Then I ask if Iceland's Dog Relations Association has got an audience at this meeting with specialist MAST and the Ministry on the subject and the results of the report. I want to get past the minister's clean and direct answer because of the highest. Aggressor has not completely answered this question. This report has been ignored somewhat by men. She was supposed to be ready almost a year ago. Then, on April 1, 2018, she was to be ready for April 1, and now April 1. I'm asking you, how's the report? What's the situation? And I'm also asking if the Dog Relations Association of Iceland and other pet organizations have not been heard in conjunction with the report and if their comments, including, will definitely not be heard. for a proposal followed by the results of the report. How important it is that we can provide a real answer, not just an answer based on an appropriate policy or a great defense that is not allowed to have the situation in such a way that it is appropriate for the present. It has to be said at the moment. I remember when I arrived at a council, the isolation was six months rather than four. It's four weeks now. Since then, basic changes in pet vaccinations have been observed. And well to mark New Zealand, an island like ours, a very strict monitoring of the import of all animals, alive and dead, is the isolation rate of 12 days. They have very strict rules. So I ask, Why can't we Icelanders have rules similar to theirs? Can we not learn from the countries that are doing this best, with clear guidelines? That's why it's urgent that I get a proper answer from the Ministry and the Ministry. A minister to see if the report is not fully prepared and if it is not intended to promote suggestions based on the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u35	A respectable president. Hv. The senator directed two questions to the marine export and agrienvironmental minister regarding the risk assessment of dog and cat import. First, what is the result of a new risk assessment report on dogs to be submitted in April 2018, such as the date and time. A senator came in, and Dr. Preben Willeberg will do for the Ministry and when the scheduled account is due. At the end of 2017, a contract was made with Dr. Preben Willeberg, an ex-credulologist in Denmark, where he began to work the assessment of importing dogs and cats into Iceland, with special emphasis on examining changes to aid dogs, such as blind dogs. When the contract was concluded, risk estimates would be submitted in April 2018. This agreement was concluded to assess about 20 diseases and infections associated with the risk assessment. Further observation and taking into account the risk assessment in 2002 for the import of dogs and cats into Iceland, it was considered necessary to increase the number of diseases and infections that would need to be weighed against the risks. The above risk assessment from 2002 lists 54 diseases and infections. Clearly, the deadlines given at the beginning of the project were unrealistic. Risk assessment, as discussed here, is enormous and important to the challenges and to ensure that living animals are not exposed to disease that can spread to our vulnerable farm stocks. Risk assessment was received by the Ministry by the end of March. This is a nearly 140 - page document that is now being studied in the Ministry and the Food Organization and will be published shortly. The Council has also requested that the Food Agency consider whether and how to modify the requirements for import of the helper dog and cats in general, taking into account the results of the risk assessment. The results are expected to be in May. Second, it is asked whether the U.S. Dog Relations Association has received an audience at Dr. Preben Willebergs's meetings, with specialist specialists in DNA and the results of the report in view of the importance of objectiveity in its preparation. So, to answer that Iceland's Dog Service Association didn't get an audition agent at Dr. Preben Willebergs's meetings. Now that the risk assessment is established, the Ministry will work with the Food Agency to see if and then how to modify the rules for the import of dogs and cats. This work, of course, will include consultations with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u36	Mr. President. Yeah, it's an excellent management. I hope the Ministry goes as soon as possible to consult. I hope there'll be consultations with pet owners for Easter and consultations and they'll be clocking right away. It's taken almost two years to get a normal index and to try to get the overall picture, and I don't really think it's acceptable anymore. This is not acceptable for pet protection or animal protection, and this is not acceptable for pet owners either. Why can we not look to the modern world and learn from the nations that are much more stringent in all the possible import precautions than we do in this regard? Why does a fence always have to be built? Why? Like all other nations, we might be cautious about protecting nature, regarding its purity. I encourage the Ministry. I'm at the highest level. Agricultural minister to suggest that there will be real consultations and follow up on this. I'm afraid it'll be just rules that only touch help dogs. Of course, it is good to consider them to see that rules will be made clear in that area. But that's not enough. I don't think that's enough. And I remind you of an average U.S. government policy. Rules should not be more strict than they need to be. But this is just becoming a lance with this government, always going harder and more stringent ways, building fences and walls. Wherever they can be built, they are built. I'd like to encourage the highest. As soon as I thank you for the answer, a successful agricultural minister will consider this with great favor and will begin to make progress in this study that has been announced for almost a year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u37	Mr. President. Anything at all. A senator named is received, recorded, and documented. I'm just saying that there's certainly a rich will to meet those who are particularly aided by dogs, but it's certainly important that we be careful and make sure that diseases are not transmitted here by living animals. Just to add this, the risk assessment does not make a special suggestion whether or not to change import rules. The case is now in the hands of experts, and I assume that this work will continue and hopefully it will win quickly. I'm sure going to return this to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for coming here and discussing progress of work on equal electricity costs in rural areas. There has been a long record of discussions about the eco-efficiency costs of rural areas and urban areas that have been maintained here at the General Assembly. Sometimes a certain step has been taken in the right direction, but the difference grows back. It's like the snail that crawls up the wall and always drops down. The situation continues to make for urban and commercial security in rural areas. Two companies supply energy in rural areas and have special rural fees, Rark and Ennis farms Vestaf. During the New Year's season, the cost of transport was increased, and the cost of electricity was increased by both urban and rural areas, but the growth in urban areas was less than that in the rural area. This always increases in the rural area. Some of the expansive costs of electricity from a veggie farmer in the island have increased by less than 60% in one year. That farmer turned off electrical lighting and the electrical company lost a business. The definition of rural payments in many countries is crucial to the use of hot water as near as water to produce vegetables or other products that also require electricity use. There are far too many jobs in the rural area that are competitive because companies have landed outside a line that has drawn up urbanity on the distribution card. All of them will be lost, the power company will lose business when companies give up, the poor farm will lose employment tools, and society will lose valuables when investments in electrical manure fail. This could result in a relatively fewer and fewer trends under the cost of the construction and maintenance of the public system. The system will eat itself up from within, let's say. In current development programmes, projects fall to three top targets: equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. Under each objective, the number of projects, including projects that contribute to the increased energy costs in rural areas and urban areas, falls. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What is the aim of working on an equation of energy costs based on a policy based strategy for 2018-2024? Is there a tendency to fully balance energy costs? If so, what will lead the minister to do so? Is there a similar goal in other government policies? Is the setting of a heat pump available in cool areas confined to homes supported? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u39	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for calling attention to the fundamental issue of energy costs in the country. During last month's discussion of the five - year financial program of the General Assembly, I brought up the subject, and I'm glad they're being discussed here at the council. It's a matter of time. The senator is on four teams, and I'm going to try to answer them. At the first and second question, why? A candidate is asked: How does working at equal energy costs according to a policy-based plan for the year 2018-2024 and is expected to fully balance energy costs? If so, what will lead a minister to do so? So here it is to answer that, as indicated in chapter 15 of a five - year financial program recently submitted to the General Assembly, there are challenges and opportunities to improve with regard to the balance of energy costs. The national level of energy costs is, in effect, divided, because it is the State's subsidies due to house warming in cold areas, and it is under the law of No. 78/2002, for the subsidies of house - to - house heating costs, and is to each budgeted for these subsidies. In 2019 this is true of some 1,900 million. Dec., less than two billion, in direct subsidies to the dispersal hosts due to the warming of cold areas under the budget. A five-year financial program is offered 100 million. K. increase in the area of house warming, in which there has been no follow-up for costs such as population development and climate change, and in this case simply the rise in the number of tourists in cold areas - i.e. Cold areas when it comes to house warming, not in a different sense. This subsidies ensures largely the equation of house warming alone between those who heat their houses with earth's heat and those who cannot do so. However, it is then the cost of electrical electricity in rural areas and urban areas. This is under the law of No. 98/2004, in terms of the interpolation costs of electricity distribution. The cost of electricity is much higher in rural areas than in urban areas for several reasons and to balance this difference is applied to all the customers of the network called electrical equations. In fact, there is a tax that is supposed to ensure a certain transfer within the network's distribution system, and it is absolutely necessary to subsidize distribution costs to rural areas. The distribution of electricity is six in this country, and two of them have a special rural record, i.e. Richard and the Power Company of the West. Today, in a five - year financial program, only 53% of the cost of mass distribution between urban and rural areas is assured by the current cost of electrical energy. Of course, it's too low. The budget aims for this ratio of emissions to 65% in 2020 and 85% in 2024. At the moment, we are working on exports to achieve that goal by the Ministry's staff and the Institute of Energy. Here, in fact, two ways are best considered. It is one to double the current equation rate from 0.3 k. During a kilowatt period at 0.6 K, which means that it is 1,960 million instead of 980, that is about doubled, which will be provisioned to substantiate urbanisations for the distribution of electricity. The other way is to integrate and combine distribution manifests in the country regardless of the rural or urban tax records. I view and interpret it as a clear will at the General Assembly that higher costs for rural groups will somehow be met by means of internal transfer so that the costs of rural electricity distribution are moved down to the level of urban users. The present challenge is to find the most practical and efficient approach to this goal. Clearly, one united currency for the whole country involves a substantial system change, and all its features and possible effects need to be thoroughly examined. It claims itself that it will in its foundation include an increase in the provision of electrical energy for urbanity distribution and a reduction in rural income. With regard to the effects in kronos and muds, we should remember that our power bill is about three equal factors, i.e. production, distribution and transport. Here we are only dealing with the changes in transport, which is one third of the account. However, there is a working group in this work, and its results are to be expected in the weeks ahead. Finally, it is asked if there is a similar objective in other government policies. It is possible to answer in a positive way. The Treaty highlights the equation of energy costs between rural and urban areas as well as the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. This is an important community case. Last June, there are measures related to the balance of energy costs. They are linked to domestic conditions and opportunities at national levels, and they need no further comment on them. Similarly, during the past few years work has been done on energy policy development for Iceland, and in this policy policy, the balance of energy costs between urban and rural areas and measures will be emphasized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for this inquiry. It's very important. And I thank you very much. Minister for the answers. We know that heat is a quality of life and that not all people live in that quality of life, unfortunately. It's 9% of the people who don't have a heating system. However, the subsidies of the state's funds for house warming are an expensive procedure, and it is urgent to improve research in geological search and to increase the number of areas where citizens can have access to heating. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for the thermal pumps, i.e. is being given the strength to buy and install heat pumps. [[The president calls.]] There's some mismanagement of the tax outputs on these sponsors. [[The president calls.]] Some have been taxed. Can Ministers inform us of the situation regarding taxation support for heating heat pumps? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u41	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the voter for the inquiry. For many years, many people, including some, have felt relatively unfair. those who live in cold areas, the cost of electricity. The minister entered it in his reply earlier that an electronic equation guarantees only 53% of the fee, if I noticed correctly. I encourage the minister to work more closely on the matter of reaching that cost. I could not tell if the minister would answer any questions about the use of heats in cold areas. The person currently has an in-depth query for written answer from a minister for thermal pumps. I'd like to ask the question that's here. It is similar to the other question I asked: How will we cooperate with the calm process? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer I felt was important. I felt that no matter where we choose to live, they answered certain questions in that way so that it is the vision and the idea that there is one nation in the country. We want to strengthen the country. We want a standard of living to be balanced. Of course, I hope it is mutual that those who live in the southwest corner have the same opportunities. But I think it's important that we think about it from the top. A minister came in, making the option stronger than it is now to live in certain areas of the country, especially because there are many who have set the cost to heat and electricity. It matters. I also know that the highest. There are various methods of building three - phase electricity. I think it was extremely important, as soon as I'd like to mention the important initiative that the Ministry was making at its time in terms of the giant defense pump in the Western Islands, which is the largest I've ever seen. [[The president calls.]] I think that might have enormous significance for the islands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's reply and the members of the council for good comments. I welcome the highest. A minister came in, that one of the ideas being carried out on integrating and uniting records. I think this must be a reasonable way because the acquisition and distribution of electricity is one project for the community as a whole. We must take decisive and collective action on the average energy costs in the country, and we need to look at things differently than we have done so far. We need to look at home and employment as soon as we ask for the work that lies ahead: Why do we need a special rural account? Can we not integrate this and have one currency? What was the basis for it? There's been a lot later in the rural areas. What was the cost of the rural population? You have to go to the ground well. I've been thinking a lot about how the line is pulled between rural and urban areas. There's nothing very useful. Is equal guarantee of it for the sake of professional life? And how can we build up new drop-down sites and clusters in the system as it is now when a new industry area has to have reached its size in order to obtain energy according to urban payment? The natural question is, can we build a system that users understand and even with politicians as well? I think it's a worthwhile project. Finally, though, I would like to stress that following the report received by the minister before the weekend, the price went to this collective. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll wait for the backup pump machine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-89.u44	Mr. President. I'm going to start by answering the last question. I'm not used to not being able to finish the answers in a speech chair because I speak fast, but I got caught up in it earlier. A fourth question was asked if the heating system was set up in cold areas. To answer, the government's support is only available to citizens who are paid for electricity for house - to - house heating and who are confined to an apartment building. This is under law No. 78/2002, for the subsidies of house - to - house heating costs. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm asked about the tax and thermal pumps, whether they were taxable income. This is a point we have in a special inspection with the Ministry of finance. There seems to be some failure in the interpretation of this. The intention was that this should not be tax dependent. That was a good time. A senator who drew attention to this and the matter is in progress between these advisers. With regard to the value of the tax tax ads due to the heat pump, I understand, the commission is either considered or submitted. At any rate, we called attention to the fact that that this parole was running out, has been in force for the past five years. Now it is being suggested that she be extended to make this more productive.
