ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u1	The President's appointment has been received from all members of the Parliament to a session of a cooperative committee on the general review of legal legislation, No. 71/1997, as agreed by Congress No. 41/149, adopted at the General Assembly of June 19, 2019. The committees of the committees of Brutís Haraldsdóttir, Steinunn Enjörnnadóttir, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Sister Ingi Pétursson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Thordður Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir, Hanna Friðriksson Fridurksson and Sæland Gógóðand. The president will consult with the officer appointed to bring the committee together for the first meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u2	As announced at the beginning of a meeting yesterday, a letter from Jón Þór Ólafsson, 8 has been received. We're out of here. "That he resigns as the fifth vice president of the Generals. Accordingly, this meeting is now scheduled for vice president 5th. Borist has one appointment, about 3rd. Smoke. n., Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. Since there are no more claims than votes, I shall declare Helgi Gunnarsson Hjöfn Hrafn as the 5th vice president of the Council and wish him good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u3	There is a meeting between presidents and chairmans of a council on the arrangements for the discussion today. In all cases, members of the committee will be recommended at the outset according to standard speech rules and comments allowed. After that, there will be discussions about all the matters that will apply to the regular part of the talk time. If necessary, the president will be expected to meet with members of Congress in the afternoon to ensure that the discussion will be completed. 20 tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u4	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change to bill to correct the conversion of electrical law and energy law from a greater part of the workaholics. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought in a number of visitors. Nearly 30 guests have come and we've received reviews from 19 sources. The bill suggests changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, due to the induction of third power directive. The changes are primarily involved in promoting the energy monitoring of the Power Management Agency by further clarifying the role and independence of the Agency, in which it supervises the monitoring of sources of electricity markets. The Commission presented various opinions on administrative terms related to the introduction of the third EU energy package. They don't hear the material under the committee and have been given publicity to the Foreign Affairs Committee. So there will be no discussion of these points. General support for promoting the independence of the Power Agency was developed and given resources to support its monitoring role. The bill suggests that the part of the Power Agency's activities that will result in independent power control against Ministers. This could not allow a Minister to give the Power Institute a general or specific directive for the implementation of the surveillance programme. The minister would still monitor the activities of the European Commission, finance and the property of the Power Institute, which is a source of energy control. The Commission concluded that the changes proposed did not guarantee sufficient independence required by the third electricity directive. The Commission believes that by bringing nuclear power control into an independent unit, which is the exception of the Minister's custody, it is the requirement that the directive fulfills. With a 6. The bill is provided with increases in monitoring costs. For the Committee, there was a view that there was a significant rise. The Commission estimates that during the past few years there has been a loss of the operation of the energy monitoring Agency and the third energy directive is expected to increase the activity of the energy directive. For example, in addition to participation in the ACER, which has been suggested to improve the Agency's effectiveness in monitoring, strengthening knowledge, and helping the Agency to monitor the development of the energy market. There was a suggestion that the regulations of the bill suggested that the Power Institute be allowed for the pressures of administration fines could cause difficulties in activities where the wording of the bill was open and broad. The majority of the items are clearly set aside. The articles listed in the Law include serious offenses such as not being allowed for transporters and activations, mixed with Marketing Authorisation and other activities and do not comply with legal requirements. In this way the Agency will be able to lay governmental guiltys on people who do not comply with the Agency's requirements for reform or repeatedly violate the requirements of electricity laws. The energy agency is governed by administrative regulations and unscrupulous administrative principles to determine the pressures of government guilty and therefore to observe certain rules for such a decision, such as moderate behaviour. In view of consumer protection, the majority of them feel that it is normal to expect a high price for parties in the electricity market. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st At Section 4. a. Instead of the word "Counsel " at a party that violates the 1st proverb. b-joints come: administration fines at parties that break. b. Instead of the words ◯10 percent to the 1st speech, 2 mg. "B" coming in: 10%. 2. Instead of the words, "Come to action " in 2 st 2 st chapter 9. Enter: valid, though. In this regard, more than a part of the employment committee and the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Others who sign are euphemised. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Signý Signor Kristjánsdóttir, Friðbjörg Frinífjöljörldof Elíasdóttir, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Njálíli Traður Friðbertsson. A respectable president. I have here tore up the opinion of a greater part of the employment committee on account of changes in electricity laws facing the Power Institute. The case of the induction of the third energy package has been discussed and is not to be added. After reviewing the whole situation, no big news appears to be introduced by the third energy package. They appeared with the induction of the first and second packages. In particular, the third energy directive aims to address the following elements: demand for separation and specialisation factors, increased electrical monitoring, increased cooperation with electronics monitoring, and increased consumer protection. Thus, the changes are seen in this bill, increasing consumer protection. The introduction of the second energy package required that the electronic watch be independent of the interests of electronic companies and the third directive assumes that only one government is controlled by electrical monitoring. It should also be legally separated, independent of all public or private organisations in relation to activities. The Member States will guarantee the independence of the surveillance authority, thus ensuring impartialness. I cut down here in the review of Hilmar Gunnlaugsson, a lawyer in the energy court, who was one of those who gave the commission a review of the matter. He says, with President's permission: However, close cooperation can be maintained, e.g. for the competitive patrol. - This requirement of the third energy package to add the requirement for the independence of the electrical watch from public power (politans) is normal, especially in Iceland, where most of the active energy companies (at least has been identified as a public property. This does not mean that European authorities are being introduced into the order of the land to provide an invitation. The cooperation we have with the European countries through the EEA gives us the opportunity to improve what is good and to improve what is lacking. The cooperation and cooperation of European nations in electrical activities extending up to the beginning of the 1950's and into other countries have been increasing. The aims of turning to electronic energy security, supply of electricity, consumer protection, markets, energy efficiency, sustainable and green energy production, energy-efficient struggles, etc. The induction of common energy laws in this country should primarily include opportunities, not threats. A respectable president. As consumers of energy markets, I can hail improved consumer protection and improve access to safe energy for both households and businesses. We need to focus on what is common in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the presentation. In this discussion, much has been said about what this third energy package should include. Reading the bill, listening to what. A senator reading the committee's opinion as a boy. A senator went over, not seeing the terrible things that were foretold, perhaps not just here in this chamber, but much in the community as well. Some months ago, the story was that an EU agency should come here and be hired, etc. When you read the bill, it doesn't look any different than the bill. A minister may contribute to his own initiative, regardless of all EU initiatives. You can't find anything in this bill, so I can see, which is in any way different than in a regular bill unless it so happens to be in accordance with a directive that we're about to decide on Monday to agree. In view of this, I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether anything has been shown in the treatment of the case that indicates that more early news is coming or anything else that the lawgiver will do to introduce the third energy package in accordance with the synonym that we spoke here yesterday, in other words, whether it's all there is, whether it's the complete chisel we've been discussing with the legal introduction on this package. Is there any information that later on there will be more prime signals to complete the process, or will this bill be closed and the next topic be discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. He wants to know if we're expecting more of the primarys that might be found in this directive. We haven't had any information about it yet. As is normal in the waste of such primary sites, some regulations that will then be supported by the bill will be published. No information about anything else has been received by the Committee, and I asked the highest level. Minister already whether or not there is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u7	Mr. President. I recommend the Committee on bill to correct the conversion of electronic energy laws and EU legislation from a smaller part of the labour board. The bill suggests changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, due to the induction of third power directive. The changes are primarily involved in strengthening the energy monitoring of the Power Management Agency by clarifying the role and independence of the Agency as it supervises the monitoring of the organisations of the electrical market. Change of Power Institute law includes: improving the independence of electrical monitoring in accordance with the third energy directive 2009/72/EC, on the common rules of EU internal energy market. This seems to be done to prepare the Power Institute for participation in the European Energy Monitoring Centres, led by the European Commission on energy market (ACER). According to the d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-r., the legal opinion of the Friðrik Árni of Már and Stefánsson-Mon-Mon-Mont-Mont-Mon-Mar. Thirty-seven. Directive 2009/72/EC is one of the related national monitoring parties in the Member States, by permission of the President, and by implementing, all appropriate legal binding decisions (ACER) and the Commission, to be made by the Member States. For ACER's contractual binding agents, please refer to the decisions the Agency takes according to Article 7, 8, and Article 9. Number of regulations (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2009 According to the observational panel of Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már, ESAs have the authority to make decisions on the basis of Regulation No. 713/2009, i.e. With the EEA/EFTA countries, as per the decision of the joint EEA committee from May 5, 2017. They say that although the cause is so formal in ESAs it is clear that the ACER will have a lot to say about the issues of the ESA taking on the basis of the Regulation, the result of which ACER makes decisions, and provides ESAs. I think it's clear to everyone. The authors continue to say that it is subject to the decision-making of ACER and that the role of ESA is mainly formal in order to improve the implementation of the Regulation into the two supporting system. They say that they can argue that, in fact, some of the decision-making is provided by the European Union and is outside the EFTA firm, i.e. ACER. Friðrik Árni article will explain that the decisions made by ACER are based on the basis of the decisions and that the effect of ACER on the content of the specific ESA must therefore be considerable. Thus, they say, assumed that policy-making and implementing the regulations of the Regulation No. 713 will especially be carried out at the ACER stage, although the ESA certainly has access to that process and may affect it. The minority feels that the Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már are not to be overlooked, as described above, that the two support systems of the EEA Convention, which they say among the reference points that are considered to evaluate whether the administration of the state to an international agency will be included within the Constitution. In between 1 and 2 pars. the bill, as well as the 6th. g., is permitted a 45% increase in the current supply of the Power Agency due to electrical monitoring of transport companies and diffusers, but these paying paying them by the bill is accompanied by the recognition that their costs will be one of the criteria for reducing the income markets. No data follow this suggestion to confirm or demonstrate the need for such an increase in energy monitoring costs. The smaller portion is considered to be serious, considering that the terms "payers " are authorized to drop these costs on consumers. The fact is one of the confirmations of how the third energy package involves the cost of consumers as this increase is supported only by third energy package being accompanied by increased duties in consumer protection and monitoring of local and global sales markets, as well as participation in ACER. No one else is behind this increased responsibility of alliances, but public consumers, as the bill confirms. The minority believes that this bill plays a significant role in the well-designed warrant given to Power Institute for the pressures of government fines. This source is far too open and far too wide, as noted by many of the visitors who had a job committee before it. In general, caution should be paid when administrative institutions receive such limited legal resources as a result of the high authority available to the courts in general. It has been suggested by the Commission that covering the Agency's access to the pressures of administration might cause difficulties in carrying out the wording of the law and the wide range. In spite of this, the majority of the committees seem to consider the regulations to be limited enough without rationalizing it. In comparison, a guilty warrant can be referred to under law No. 90/2018, of personal protection and processing of personal information, which contains a much more specific and precise guilt warrant. This is a member of the Member State's Member State's programme for the implementation of national legislation, but it does not depend on whether or not a longer course is being carried out than will be carried out by Directive 72/2009/EC. The minority believes that this is a far better option for the Power Agency to end in the same bill, increasing and strengthening the independence of this administrative agency. Should be here at least taking into account the rules of the law No. 90/2018 on the Federal Guard and on the other hand, on a fixed dollar and on the other hand, on the level of well - being. In view of my share, the legislator must set aside such fines for the administrations in such a way that the laws themselves specify the maximum amount of fines in terms of the seriousness of the offenses. Thus, due to lower rates of serious fractures and in cases of more severe fractures, the maximum benefit is due to a lower fracture rate. This isn't done on the bill. Then, in view of my share, there's too much guilt available in the bill. The less part the maximum fines should at least to be half lower, i.e. 5% of the roll instead of 10%. Both general and specific warnings may be obtained via such a guilt warrant. Here, in particular, it should be noted that in most cases the tolerability of such fines are enterprises with very well-being and that high guilt clearances are largely reduced. Almost all of these enterprises are also owned by public property, and they have the basic functions for society to produce and sell electricity into a closed energy system. The terms of Community rights are set in view of a far greater population than Iceland and all the other markets in the electricity market than those in this country. Therefore, the requirement must be made that guilt documents such as this not be taken unafraid from Community rights and entered into Icelandic law without any checking whether or to the extent possible for such guilt rights under Icelandic conditions and whether they usually achieve the purpose to be met. In this regard, it is not enough to merely seek rationality to point out that the Power Institute is bound by administrative regulations and unscrupulous principles of the administration rights to the decision of the pressure of government guiltys and therefore must take care of certain rules for such decisions, such as moderate demeaning. Under this view, Ólafur Ísleifsson and Jón Þór Þorvaldsson wrote in his book.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u8	A respectable president. I'm not going to waste my time chasing straps to what is quoted here in the Fear of Fridriks and Stefán Már. It's getting a little rough how. The members of the Central Party and others scavenging them for opinions and completely bypass their final outcome, just as they please. I don't think it's a highly respectable way to treat information from experts. On the other hand, there are many political issues involved in this minority opinion that are worthy of consideration and an excellent basis for exchange of opinions. According to one estimate, the smaller part is opposed to this increase in energy monitoring costs. The fact is, it's the loss of the electronics today. Counts 'em out. A senator's orders are to run it electronics on a loss? And this further increase means that every kilowatt for electrical energy absorbed into the transport system is increasing by 0.18 pennies. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry. A senator's rising too much, or does he feel that we should continue to subsidize the electrical watch from the state box?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to be told, on account of the words that fell here, that I feel free to witness to the scribes who have discussed this matter, I have done and will continue to do so. I've got to feel bad. A member of the council, for example, by not asking permission from one or no one to cite the literature and the scholars I consider to be relevant to this case. What is in harmony with the other emphasis is a major increase in current currency. She's 45%, and I simply allow myself to point that number. There is a very large increase here, and at least it has not been fully supported. Maybe it would be closer to what we're talking about. A man who is a great and firm advocate of this matter reasoned with him on material issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u10	President. I don't want this kind of low-level political drama like I was in some way banning a bad boy. A senator doing something. He must endure it, as if you were to have someone else's opinion of what he is doing. Hv. A senator gave in to my question. Counts 'em out. A senator who has 0.18 pennies rising every kilowatt hour too much? Counts 'em out. Senator that it's supposed to be the loss of the energy control facility? Counts 'em out. A senator to pay the loss of a government fund, or is it okay to raise it, and what is the increase? Hv. A senator must have some diagnosis behind it if he thinks it's too high. Finally, "woe. " A senator objecting to being taken to the Power Institute for added duties in the consumer protection and monitoring of the local retail market?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u11	Mr. President. I have to admit that I have no evidence to evaluate this question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u12	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u13	[[Foreground on:]] Could it not be possible that monitoring procedures could be addressed and eliminated in this way? [[Up front.]] When faced with problems, it is not always enough to dwell on consumers, as it were. There seems to be a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u14	A respectable president. In a board of committees why. A candidate will discuss what is called the legal binding decisions of ACER in the 37th chapter. Directive 72/2009, which is quoted and stated that it is among the related national monitoring parties in the Member States to conduct, and perform, all relevant legal binding decisions made by ACER or ESA and the Commission. Immediately thereafter, it is said that these legal binding decisions protect the 7th, 8 / 9th, and 9th. Regulation No. 713/2009, for example, who assumes that there is a link between countries. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Which decisions are exactly what ESAs or ACER would want Power Institute to take on about 7th, 8 and 9. Regulation No. 713/2009 without a cable in Iceland? What is it that ESAs or ACER may wish Ennis to decide if there is no cable? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You're right about what you're doing. A member of the Parliament that the most important requirement taken in Regulation 713/2009, which has been strongly warned by the two legal advisers of the government to be introduced here, is the most important, perhaps especially 8 paragraph 8. What is discussed here is this context between the institutions we are involved in and those that are not part of. We are involved in the EFTA monitoring facility, but not in the European energy institution ACER. What we have here is a very simple analysis of the relationship between these institutions so that we are in a position to need practically, but I'm not going to claim, to live in decisions taken from an institution we have no involvement in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u16	A respectable president. It sounds like a reason. A senator is answering some question other than the one I asked. I wasn't asking what later appeared in the assessment of ESA and ACER, but I was asking how ACER or ESA would want to control or tell the Power Institute to do things about the 7th, 8 and 9th chapters. Regulation No. 713/2009, while there is no cable. These articles are only relevant to conditions where a cable is here. The premonitions I know have no significance for ESA, and having nothing to do with that institution at the end of the year, the Icelandic constitution of Iceland makes it perfectly clear that we are not filming it in these laws as shown on the bill itself. There is no power being given to ACER and ESA that is consistent with the fear displayed in this committee. Now there is no cable in Iceland. For example, suppose ACER wants to go to war with Iceland because the Agency is just in a bad mood and decides to kick Iceland off of it. On what basis would it do so? What's Iceland doing or not doing that ACER would want Iceland to do or not do when there's no cable in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] What does this have to do with anything? In other words, what about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u17	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm not as good at trapeze as I am. A senator, to be talking about the fact that we are expecting some kind of war or threat from ACER. I am not here to tell you what this institution would or would not do to us or to anyone else in the future. What it's all about is what authority there is and what situation exists between us, ESAs and them. The issues in this case are very detailed and therefore presented in the opinion of the members, who I intend not to mention in order not to exaggerate too much of some here, that men around the two support system with due respect, that's my words, not theirs, that there's at least not very carefully observed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u18	Mr. President. This is a very interesting thing, because here we may finally be entering the core of the third energy package here. It's not about possession of energy companies, control of resources or sea cables, it's about consumer protection, competition with electrical power markets. That's the effect we'll feel from the third energy package. This is mainly to trust the responsible institution, the Power Institute, in their electronic watch to ensure the best interests of consumers and corporations in the country when it comes to an active market competition. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: What is it in this surveillance program that is so distracting him and his party when it is the same as we have in a financial market, personal protection and a number of other aspects of the joint internal market of the EEA? In what ways, then, should we fully resolve comparable monitoring factors if we are not to support similar arrangements? [[The president calls.]] What should replace the EEA and its common institutions? Wouldn't you have to renegotiate the EEA contract if the proposals of the Central Party should be carried out on these subjects?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad he's at least closer to being on the subject, but he showed himself to be here yesterday. Thanks and respect. Hv. A member of the body will discuss what suggestions the Central Party has on this subject. I'd think that's what. A senator should be beginning to realize that the proposal we have in this case is the same as the main motion of legal advisers for whom the government itself went into operation, i.e. that we do not ask to introduce Regulations 713 and 714 which anyway are not relevant because we are not connected to Europe. I call attention to an interesting talk at the highest level. The financial and economic ministers here yesterday, when he described the view that there would be no disaster or anything like that, as they have said, regarding the EEA partnership even though we did this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u20	After sitting, Mr. President, my question is, how would this surveillance be arranged? That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't care about the electrical market competition? Don't we need an efficient and effective surveillance of the electrical market competition, which is an enormous interest in the homes of the country? And what is wrong with this arrangement adopted here on the cooperation of our institutions with international institutions, which is exactly the same arrangement that we have in many other parts of the EEA Convention, in the common market? How should we solve it in a different way but precisely in the two supporting systems that we support within the EEA area of this common market, like so many others? That's the core question. Energy issues are part of the EEA Convention and have been from the beginning. That's what I'm talking about. A senator suggesting that we take up the EEA contract in this way? We're not talking about a little extra. [[The president calls.]] So, there's talk that if I get it, we'll just pass the energy issue away from the EEA deal. A senator is correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me a chance to answer that question. The answer is very simple. The third, the energy package, is made up of eight types, depending on what will be achieved next. Of these, four serve as natural gass. We are abjected to them at the decision of the joint committee because natural gas is not relevant in Iceland. The other types depend on cohesion, which is appropriate in the face of electrical exchange between countries. Such an electronic connection is not available here, and that's why it would be most natural to do as they suggest and make up their main proposal, the members of the group, I'm going to let me mention it, even though it will exaggerate some, they'll be partners of the Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson, and they confirmed at the meeting of the State Committee on the 19th of August 19th. that their main proposal in the case would be to present the case to the joint committee, looking for a release. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u22	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Ólafur Isun's Ísleifsson is a factor when it comes to our not wanting to give up the extra power to foreign institutions, even though the doubt is very small and most say it will not be, but as long as it is in doubt, I want the constitution to enjoy it. As far as we're concerned, we're on the same page. It's a power campaign from the state's institutions out here, but I'd like to know if we're going to do it. paritaprevir Ólafur Isun's Ísleifsson is one of the factors in another, whether he agrees that we need to increase the power offered by the nation's will that it be given power from us politicians to him. I have a hunch. A senator agrees that the nation should vote on this matter. The country also voted in 2012 for a new constitution. Is he in favor of that, or is this a matter of choice? Is he willing to give the nation their new constitution, as they decided in 2012, or is it selective? It matters. Now there is a constitution that Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter has started with and what. A member of the body is a member or a member of the body. I'm going to ask him about the regulations there, but I'm going to start with the new constitution that the people decided in 2012 that they wanted: Is he in favor of the people's power? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for questioning an interesting aspect of this matter. Of the national tax he refers to, one thing or another, including to participate in it and other such activities. It was in harmony with other things and particularly about a very radical change in our governmental affairs, i.e. to address the 1944 Republic Constitution, which was adopted here with almost all votes in the national votes at its time. Hv. A senator asks me about my position. My conclusion is that what I would like to call a tenacious change might be a good thing to control when it comes to a change in constitution. I strongly emphasize that the constitution is the constitution of all of us and that decisions regarding the change in constitution are taken up by much careful discussion and broad solidarity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u24	Mr. President. Now a third pack of energy will run out, and now the head of the Central Party has signed the written agreement that this is the speech season and is therefore abdicating the authority of the Party in order to practice a lawsuit in this matter. So these matters will be complete. Then comes the fourth energy pack, etc. and we will continue into the future. Then again, it's a question of whether it's a selective thing, so to speak. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, if I understand him properly, should not be respected according to the national will as he appears in the 2012 National Bank. This should be viscous and reactivated. Now it's a treatment for Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the highest. Prime Minister, of the Board of Directorates of the Central Party, why. paritaprevir Sigmundur's Davíð and sometimes his fury. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. It speaks of national property on natural resources. Then we stay in the constitution to lose the right to rule over them, as men are talking about being in the third pack of energy, though it doesn't seem to me. It has environmental and natural protection so that we protect ourselves from having to engage more than we want because it's the constitution, because some say we'll be forced to activate or otherwise. [[The president calls.]] National pay is often the initiative of the voters. The dressers take the power, as the Middle Class seem to like in this matter, but then it would no longer be a choice. [[The president calls.]] Then it would be the nation that was in control of everything. Isn't that something we need to finish? This is vital to complete this terms. Is the senator proselytizing in these matters that stop the human risk in the third energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u25	Mr. President. I have much to say in a talk. A senator, but not a wise man, at least not when it comes to me. I described some doubts about the 2012 National Pay, and I want to explain why. This was because the question posed somehow was, Do people want to be put to the foundation of a government bill? This is an open and not fully clear wording. I meet people -- Yeah, it's very important. [[But the Constitution...]] I met people who had voted with a yes-to-Yes vote on the one hand because they wanted to follow this bill and that they would be the new constitution, while others would mean to the question, "Do you want this bill of administration to be taken into consideration? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u26	But the Constitution... the energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u27	The Constitution now with the third energy package? Sounds like I don't have time for a president to stay. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u28	Mr. President. I would like to review a part of the employment committee's committee's committee's list of proposals for action on the decision to make a political decision. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. The committee has discussed the matter, and in this case we received 28 visitors before the committee and 12 reports. This arrangement suggests that there will be a change in the council resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. For the Commission it was noted about administrative terms related to the introduction of the third EU energy package. They don't hear the material under the committee and have been given publicity to the Foreign Affairs Committee. So there will be no discussion of these points. The committee presented views and objections to the sea cables. A greater part of it feels right to state that this arrangement is merely a matter of requiring a decision-making authority for such a project at the General Assembly. In addition, many other people will need to prepare for such a decision, both public and private. These will be examined as factors such as environmental impact, society, etc. Many allow national institutions to have such a project, and they need to be done very thoroughly in the case of the Generals. The majority feels that, in view of the potential scope of such a project and the major impact of decision-making, it can have on important public interest, it is natural and must be agreed on by the General for that project. The majority of the rights to seek the approval of the Generals should be provided with a thorough and comprehensive analysis of the costs and benefits of evaluating the environmental, social, and economic effects of connections through sea cables and national projects linked to them. It has been suggested that the decision to fix a cable may be shifted from the Icelandic government and the values of the Parliament's decrees have been questioned. The majority do not agree with that view. In view of the greater part, the wording of the synonym is clear, making it clear. There will always be a decision-making tool in the hands of the Icelandic government. In addition, the State has unfavourable authority over the natural resources of the country. It follows the Commission's Regulation on the implementation of European Parliament Regulation and the Council to establish the Commission's European Commission on energy markets that follow up this opinion. The majority suggest that the proposal be agreed with the following modification: On Proposition: a. Instead of these words, say the following: b. Instead of the words of the ◯like decision of the Second Synod, the decision to connect with a cable is made. It's under the heading "Why." Senator Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Chairman Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Elíasdóttir Frinífjöljörðurfjörður Elissótir, Birgitmann's Ármannsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdótir, and Sirben Óttarsson Proppé. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that with the Senate resolution, there's a package that shows up as we spent a lot of time here, it was an amazing discussion we had here in spring, where they were always looking for a warning. It was a bit difficult when men could not reach a council hall to give a warning. He was long done. He was always in the papers we were referring to. In spring, I found many encouraging words, and some related them, and I want to point them out. The members of Congress are assigned to Article 3. The package leaflet is protected. It says: Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, with infrastructure across borders, the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council (EC) No. 713/2009 with regard to electrical connections between countries not being carried out in Iceland while such a connection has not been established. Sources that make it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will be built only after the approval of the Generalis and review of the administrative law under the scope of the Regulation. That's where the alarm is. Finally, I'd like to use this opportunity to quote earlier. which we had in April on that matter, with the permission of the president, but in the speech of the president. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson says: In preparation, the transwarp line, a northeast line called, has far more electricity than we need. It has enough electricity to feed sea cables, except 100 research permits for so-called microins, which are 9.9 megawatts, or slightly smaller, to underline environmental impacts. 100 such microinvolvers and the permit holder are the same. The license holder of the 100 permits, however. A senator, he's the same. So we're not talking about some cute peasants, that some farmer in the north or west is applying the town brook. We're talking about a private company getting 100 contracts to build 100 microintendents. This 100 permission, if activation, could result in the production of 1,000 megawatts, which is a very powerful force and can probably be used to feed a cable in case of use. In April, I was able to discuss this with the northeast line as far as possible. A senator spoke of them. It may well be that I'll finish going through that thing again. However, let's discuss only the 100 patents that were very agitated, with 100 patents per one permit. And it's starting to connect to a cable, that's enough for a cable. It is true that we answer no matter what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson at the council are that there are 28 patent applications for the inducers less than 10 megawatts. There is not one permit holder who is asking or asking for it, there are 13, so that you can totally arrange it. It's like a blunder on the discussion that's been so bad about it. A lot of false records have been claimed. Sometimes it is proper to study things, just to go under the surface, but there may be no point in handling the matter properly. I'm really bored when people make the facts wrong. It is not a beautiful game to Icelandic society when men do such things as in this case, to act like men do and do. I think it's been mentioned a lot, even in the debate, over and over. It came to my mind in mid - April, so I think it's extremely important for people to take a little effort to inform us of all of the issues, such as all this discussion has been very important, i.e. energy policy for an Icelandic nation. [[Up in the hall: right.]] She's been on the wrong side to most of it. But I'm going to use this opportunity because I don't have that good time, which you don't have so many times in the Alllian ponta, to discuss the other part of the preparation of a moving line called the northeast line, which has more electricity than we need. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] She's got enough power to feed a cable. The current northern line is 40 years old. This is the oldest part of the line that connects Akureyri to the west. It's from 1974, it's 45 years. By about a decade, the electric lines that are part of the largest electrical transport system here in the country have been read in the north. That's why we're trying to establish a co-ordinated line 3, Holasends Line 3 and Cruces line 3. It is an insult to the people of the north to have such a language, as it was in April, where wrong conduct was constantly held on to people about that matter. It is a pleasure, though, to do so. A senator is in no greater part in the government because the Agency is now in session at Collar Line 3. They began late in the summer, so they will hardly be stopped by middle - class members. It's a pleasure. Then we all hope to do so naturally, and I hope I can get them what they want. The members of the Central Party with me, that we continue on the road to secure Holasinnd Line 3 and Combining Line 3, thereby ensuring the Eternity Security. Of course, we're also going to secure electrical security in the West and South, because these are the three areas that have been at least located in the national electricity of at least - 1 40, 15 years. I think it's time I stopped now. I think it's true that we're looking to the future and have some vision in the nation's electricity business and we're going to be discussing energy at the General Assembly more intelligent than we've been doing in the last few months. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u29	President. One Congress case, over 777, is the energy package itself. It's on the State Department. Then there's what's on the pro board. We're discussing it together. First, the issue is the independence of the Power Institute. The case we're discussing now is a judicial arrangement for this warning. No. 3 is underlining the law that you need to follow the warnings set out in Icelandic law. And who's the alarm? It matters. Two of these matters are premiumed in the form of a synonym which is set up in a policy of the construction of the electropower transport system and the fourth case, which will be measured afterwards in terms of electricity, that it is inserted into the law so that the defence is guaranteed by law. What does the alarm say? Is he good? Yeah, the alarm's good. Is he enough? We don't know. That's what those against the third energy package say may not be enough. But he can't be bad. That's when I asked our energy when they set up a professional committee: Okay, I hear what you're saying, you're worried about this, you don't want our third energy package, you want to tell you all about the energy working together when it comes to the EEA deal. So we're talking about resigning the EEA deal, aren't we? All of this matters in the entire context. Let's talk straight and forth about what we're really talking about. Then I asked: "Can't you accept it if it's good? At the meeting, they said: "Yes, it's good in advance that they come out. They just don't think they're holding it. But there is nothing bad about them, and they could have some positive effect. I said, "Can't you put it in a review and send it to the committee so that we have it as part of the documents? " I said this in the spring when Frosti Sigurjónsson came from our Power. I said that again when they arrived in the fall. They don't send in a review, they don't want to talk about the positive things in this story. We have to talk about the positive and negative things in this. There are pros and cons. What is said in this particular case is that the link between the energy system in Iceland's electrical system to the electrical systems of other countries through a spherical cable is not to be triggered by the approval of the General Assembly. But people don't trust the Generals, okay, but they've got the law on them. And what must be done? Yes, it will be done in extensive environmental and environmental studies to delay at least The process on the induction of the third energy package, on the translucency, means that the central category and others who do not wish to have the cable may engage a language theme at the General because it will not be approved without the approval of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] There's a filibuster again. This proposal has created new occasions for spokening. [[The president calls.]] I don't believe that the Central Party is going to object to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u30	The president asks members of the Parliament to keep defined deadlines carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u31	Mr. President. I couldn't quite follow everything. On the other hand, I would like to use this opportunity to establish that the representatives of Enex came before the employment committee in August with a presentation for us. I'm just going to read from the introductions: To avoid any misunderstanding as to the content of the report, it can be said that no major display of energy has been built in Iceland without any special legislation made by the Council. It is not likely that ocean cables from abroad will be laid and connected to the Icelandic electrical system without such a special device. If the Council chooses to impose these special requirements on a special cable, there is nothing to be considered. I read a little further: It is likely that the approved third energy package will be interpreted in Brussels and elsewhere, so that the Icelanders expect to become full members of Europe's energy relationship in due to an important domestic interests. This is the wrong message, as the report shows in many places. It is quite consistent among the population that Iceland operates its own resources and thus enjoys the fruits of its competitive prelude, e.g. A more favorable and cleaner energy for Icelandic industry. It is a fair concordance among the people of the country. I think we're all there. We're in the same spot in this case. In fact, I told them, it's not just a fair harmony, I think that is a great harmony among the people that we use our resources together. I'm reading the report, and it's going to tell them: ▪ It is not likely that the ocean cables from abroad will be laid and connected to the Icelandic electrical power system without such a special device. I agree with that, and it's interesting to me that this is going to be true for all our discussions. [[The president calls.]] Then we can talk about international cooperation and others and what we're doing about power production and other things. Maybe I'll take it for a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u32	I think it's important to find out exactly what these languages all mean. I'm going to let the Constitution enjoy the doubt of the energy package itself and, hence, will not vote with it, I'll vote against it, but that's what I've done, and I've talked it over with the members of the Central Party, including. Yeah. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, when I criticized him and said that they would have to let the constitution have the doubt in the last or last terms - they've been so many lately - so I'll give the constitution the doubt if it's pointed out to me. On the other hand, what needs to be done is to change how we decide to be in international cooperation with the agency so that the constitution does not make any doubt, and it clearly explains what it is. But there are so many things in our constitution that now doubt is subject to. For exactly this matter that we are discussing now and then. Friðbertsson The speech of Private Friðinbertsson is that we're talking about the warning. I've been late into the committee on this matter, switched from a job committee, but I've already asked for the warning, and I don't understand the warning any other way than it says: ◯... there will not be an attack on the link between the energy systems of the country's electrical system and other countries through a sea cable unless it's done with the approval of the General Assembly. Don't you trust the General? But then it says: ◯... it should be agreed before implementing such a connection can be carried out on a system plan. You can't start with the cable unless it's approved by the General. In order to prevent the approval of the General Assembly, there can be a debate at the General Assembly. If this is approved, it has been established that if the Allied Council intends to authorize a cable, it can be done. Isn't that clear? It's a conquistador. It's in the law. The General must agree whether or not it is by law or by interpretation that it is possible to engage in spoken language. We'll see if people are ready when things are so clear to be objective. Our energy does not want to send a message that this aspect is good, and the middle class has not spoken well of this matter. Now, in the debate today, we will see whether the Middle Class are ready to accept that the alert will have a minimum opportunity for a debate at the General Assembly to stop the cable from being laid. [[The president calls.]] He won't be started without the Council's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u33	Mr. President. These questions are not simple to answer. This may have sounded as if we were accepting a cable and were going straight to the discussion about the sea cables now and that men were going to file a lawsuit over that discussion. Is it what you're about to do, that you're afraid there'll be an issue soon? This is -- no, so we're beginning to think of the media at the General Assembly after 15, 20 or 30 years or whenever that discussion comes? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u35	Yes, as an opportunity... [[Take it up: As an opportunity.]] [[Take it up: Opportunity.]] [[Up front.]] Well, I'm living in a real life now - yes, I agree with that. Senator, this needs to be thought of. [[Up front.]] I just don't know if these thoughts are gonna take my energy all the way soon because I don't see it coming. If we're going to think of all these things just in life, nothing will happen in that life because we're so scared of everything and everything and the future that we're going to most likely to be underneath our beds and barely get out of bed. I just have to say, it's too high for me. Well, a little bit in the box, but you want to be... [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Now you knocked me over a little bit. There are so many other variables that in those years or decades, I cannot measure how the opportunity to communicate at the General on Corporate would be about 2050.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u36	It's...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u37	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u38	It's...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u39	It's just that it's gone too far for me. If they are there during the summer discussion, we're in something so bad that I don't know how to work here in the future in our worldwide work and in other ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u40	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. What I wonder about is a bill for law that is a change in electrical law, no. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, in fact, one article. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The article suggests that the 9th chapter of this article be mentioned. a power layer, no. 65/2003, on the link of the nation's electrical energy systems to other countries through cables, the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems is being carried out. What I'm wondering is, what if this policy of government doesn't go in line with the policy being introduced through the energy package? It was shown in yesterday's debate that Belgium is having some problems because the European Union did not approve of or are at any rate accused of it. They wanted to maintain their own policy beyond the EU directive. These sentences here, which says a U.S. government policy, are there any similarities in Belgium and this? We seem to intend to introduce it according to our policy, set certain conditions for the induction. Is it another sort of thing, or can it be compared to the Belgium case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u41	Mr. President. It's a little farfetched to link Belgium with what we're dealing with here. There's no resemblance. It's just the wrong approach. We will determine how we put our lines and how we do it. We have a budget in Iceland, actually our rural communities, and then it's the Icelandic government that decides these things. So to me there is no like in these two matters, that they may be kept. We have custody of how we are doing things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u42	A respectable president. The Senator has completely misunderstood the question. I wasn't asking about custody of lines or anything like that. I was asking that if we change the law, let's do it this way -- i.e. We do so according to our own decision, according to our own policy - aren't we doing what Belgium is doing, following our own course instead of the European Union's policy? We are going to introduce it here, according to government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. Is it not likely that this policy will go against the European Union's policy for building electricity transport systems?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u43	Mr. President. We're initiating this case on our terms, with our induction process. I haven't had anything to do with the Bowlina, but that case, as I understand it, is based on the fact that the Belgs are entering this agreement on ACER - 2009 when they start and the activities in Slovenia begin in 2011 - and that is the part of the agreement that the Belts are not respecting, that process of induction. We have our in induction process, which in the same way is not presented as with Belgium. This is totally separate, these two. It's not the same thing. And it's not--we're doing the right thing. [[Is there a difference in the induction? Are we doing a proper...?]] We're doing this on our terms for Icelandic interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u44	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a commission about bill change of power law, No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, and here a discussion of a reference to government policy on the building of electrical transport systems. This opinion comes from a smaller part of the job committee. Mr. President. The bill on this subject identifies changes in electricity laws, No. 65/2003. It suggests that a new paragraph will be added to Article 9. a electronic layer, as follows, by permission of presidents: The link between the country's electrical energy systems and other countries through cables is based on government policy on the structure of electricity transport systems. Materially, this change in electricity laws is a law of reference that points to government policy on the building of electrical transport systems. This policy is determined in the form of a synonym, as laid down in Article 39. a electronic layer, which says, by permission of the President: A four - year - old minister proposes every four years to the General for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. For a professional employment board, there is also a proposal for a resolution of a change in the council resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems proposed in connection with a proposal for Congress resolution of the decision of the joint EEA Commission, No. 93/2017, change of IV. Annexes, i.e. the energy service at the EEA Convention. The minority points out that in the Federal Law Department of Friðrik Years Friðriksson Már and Stefánsson Quoftsson, which followed the case, it is described as a significant doubt as to whether there was a key decision to ESA, according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, as planned to record it in the EEA Convention under the decision of the joint EEA Commission on May 5, 2017, was included in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. The above attitude was presented in a letter to the minister of foreign affairs, dated April 10, 2019. The minority is a major concern about the power of the Member States through its introduction to the Commission, and the impact on the future energy supply in Iceland, including the organization, the provision and use of the nation's energy resources, as further reflected in informed opinions. Seems like a proposal for a change in the council resolution of No. 26/148 intended to include separation by Generalis to prevent the linking of the national electricity system to the marine energy systems in other countries unless agreed by the Generals' approval. Instead of ensuring the important separation of the World Council of Decisions in the important interest of the public by measuring directly to the law that there is an General decision to determine whether to attack the link between the electronic energy systems of other countries, the rule is put in Congress. The change in the law in the matter is referred to a synopsis. The smaller portion does not consider this adjustment to meet the goal of ensuring the full decision force of the General Council on the fixation of a cable. In addition, the memory loss factor suggests that the approach to ensuring important public interests is not to achieve its purpose if it is intended to ensure the stated objective of the above provisions. It is unacceptable that governments who wish to clearly separate the Council's decision on the link between the country's electropower systems to the marine cord should make that possible in the synonym. Consuming is the Universal Declaration of Will, which is under special treatment. They offer suggestions in a form of resolution and discuss two discussions at the General Assembly. Consequences may contain rules that require specific activities, but they do not mean that they contain binding rules, as the law does. While the Allied Council agrees with the synods and they obviously have binding orders, they are always lower than law. The treatment of the synonyms is simpler than the treatment of law-reflecting servers, as well as that of another member of the legislative authority, the president of Iceland, not taking part in their approval. The minority agrees with Friðrik Árni's Friðriksson son Már and Stefánsson Quoftsson that the case will be resumed on the board on the basis of 102.g. The EEA Convention, which is intended for Iceland to be given an exception, including From controversial regulations, No. 713/2009 and 714/2009. [[The president calls.]] This would have been a legal advantage beyond the means chosen to prevent the legal uncertainty that follows the course of the government of the United States. [[The president calls.]] Under this opinion, the literature of Ólafur Ísleifsson and Jón Þór Þorvaldsson were written.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u45	The president would like to call it to the attention of a speaker and ask if he was not measuring for the members of the committee in the case of No. 792, but the program was actually No. 791, conversion to Parliamentary Reunion No. 26/148.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u46	So why don't I think I've already spoken in time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u47	Let us see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u48	President. So in order not to get together as it seems to be in this discussion - the fourth energy package is hacking into the third and the first, and the second one is hacking into the third - and that we keep the third energy package clear - I want to mention that the third energy package is the Parliamentary decree adopted by the State Department and was discussed here yesterday. Now we have three cases. They were set up on a job committee. The first issue is the independence of the Power Institute. It has been recommended, both smaller and larger parts. It was just a few minutes ago. So said Nilli Trausti Friðbertsson for the majority of the people's homes with a premonition. Then there's the fourth thing --what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson talked about it and stoned it all together, but we have to separate it - a legal bill to secure the Congress resolution of policy legislation. The two issues we've started to discuss are warning, on the other hand, in the form of a synonym that no sea cable will be laid unless it comes to the General Assembly, which means that the II Parliament's seminar will be activated if a person is going to land a sea cable. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson was talking about right now, the bill is about to tie up this synopsis, about the arrival of the Generalis if there is to be a sea cable, into the law. They're doing both. This is a double notice there, in the form of a synonym and a bill, which will be placed in law, which means that a cable will not be laid unless it is the time for the Council. People may not trust the General, and I understand that very well. In many ways, people have no trust in the Generals. I don't talk about when big interests depend on them. They don't trust a lot of people. With these bills, they're going into law -- I'm opposed to what. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun, I hope he isn't going away; no, he's back--that the council must have found out about it. If you plan to place a cable, it has been attached to a concierge and a law that the Allied must have access to it before the cable is laid. Is it not, then, that the senator is ready to come up here in a speech chair and have a lawsuit against plans to convene a cable? He will then be authorized by this nominee and this synopsis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the counter, who wants to let me tell you that I was clearly mistaken that we were discussing these matters together as suggested, or I thought I understood. But I'm glad it's against who. Senator. In this regard, it may be appropriate to draw attention to the fact that it is a good thing to validate and make a plagitarization proposal, just right - left statement, as it is sometimes said today, that there is not to be put here without the government's consent. It's just fine. What's happening in this is that no cable will be placed here against our will and it's perfectly clear that it will not be brought in raw meat without our will. We are in exactly the same position as these two cases. In the raw meat, we fell to the EFTA Court's judgment that, as it is called, we had a broken contract and that of a serious nature, by maintaining a 30-day freezer duty at 18°C in minus. We can continue to do that. As long as we do, however, we must endure it and pay for it in damages. And the exact same situation exists in this case. I quote here again in footnote 62 of them, with Friðrik the Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. They say about the cable: [[The president calls.]] ▪ Don't forget that the Energy Agency rejects a company's application where the company might turn to ESA, which could end up by a contract break-up against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. It's exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u50	President. Exactly. So we just take the views together. These two cases, on the one hand, a synopsis of the advance and the following issue of legalizing the court case in the Senate arrangement, are not bad issues. But, hey. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson says that it just doesn't hold, and in the end, we might have a lawsuit and then the General will have to submit to it. Then it's perfectly clear, and it's important. These bills will do nothing more than strengthen my position at the General Assembly every time because, if you put on a cable, it will be done by the Allied council. There is no way to walk, to get past something. It's just that it's clear that the Council must have access to the case. These matters only strengthen the status of the parts at one time, perhaps in an effort to stop them from speaking or by other means. Then you can cast out the idea: Should we be in the EEA, etc.? What does this really mean? Then you can have your whole conversation. That's what these two cases do, and that's why I'm all for them. I vote against the energy package myself for the doubt of the constitution. As I have said, he is not great; he is very small; yet there is doubt. I've signed an oath to keep a constitution, and that's why I'm giving the Constitution the benefit of the doubt. I'm a bit, what to say, stuck with it. If I sign an oath, I want to keep him. I don't think it's going to go all the way with it. Many people disagree, many interpret it a little differently, and I respect it very much, but I'm there. It's just very good to be completely clear. These two things don't do anything bad, but some feel that it's just dusting people's eyes, that they don't think, that's why they're against it. But there's nothing against voting with these cases. They don't do anything bad. They only attach what people say is already there. The debate points out that some people feel that they are getting dusted into people's eyes, that they are just very clear on the table as to what they think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u51	Mr. President. Thank you so much. Senator. It is exactly this situation that exists that no one is harmed, although it is brought in and produced by Congress and by law that these decisions are guaranteed by the Icelandic government. That's not the problem. The problem is exactly like I traced it to meat. No one will use our violence to make the illegal meat requirement that it be frozen for 30 days at minus 18°C. We have the right to do so, but it costs us, and it has already cost a fortune as billions of dollars are spent. That's exactly what's upstairs. The two authors who wrote their opinion on the subject, Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni - I am quite aware that this concept is like a thorn in their flesh that most strongly supports this induction of the third energy package. However, these highly respected lawyers see reason to warn the Allied Council of Iceland that this danger is at hand. This danger has been traced and analysed on page 18. 35 and footnote 62. It is possible for each individual to examine himself. These are warning words that I don't think can be overlooked. [[The president calls.]] The money would not be too small in this case if the situation they described were to arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u52	Mr. President. I recommend a committee program with a greater part of the employment board on bill to correct the conversion of electrical law, No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, reference to government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. The committee has discussed the matter and has received 28 visitors and 12 reports. The bill suggests that by means of electricity laws, they will be added to a new set of provisions for the linking of the EU's electrical power systems to other countries through a circuit, according to government policies on the building of electricity systems. The main objective of the bill is to ensure that if the decision to link the country's electrical system to the electrical systems of other countries is to be implemented, the procedure should be in accordance with government policy at any given time. Is therefore changing electricity laws in line with proposals for the changes in the synonyms submitted along with the bill. For the Committee, there were various opinions about administrative opinions related to the introduction of the third EU energy package. They don't hear the material under the committee and have been given publicity to the Foreign Affairs Committee. So there will be no discussion of these points. The committee presented views and objections to the sea cables. It is a legal requirement that such action must be in accordance with governmental policies at any time. A greater proportion of the committee points out that the legislation is being adjusted in harmony with the aforementioned adjustment of the synoptic resolution proposed to require that the sea cable not be attacked by sea cable unless it is agreed with the General Assembly. A further indication that such activities are not taken into consideration but that the decision to fix a cable is made only through the well - thought - out process and the survival of the General Assembly. In addition, the majority suggest that it is normal and must be agreed by the Generals to determine whether such a project will be carried out as a decision for which it can have a profound impact on important public interests. In addition, a greater proportion of the right to seek the approval of the Generals shall be provided for a thorough and complete cost- and benefit analysis evaluating the environmental, social, and economic effects of connections through a marine cord. It follows the Commission's Regulation on the implementation of European Parliament Regulation and the Council to establish the Commission's cooperation in the energy market, which accords with the opinion of this. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of the words ◯ through to pars. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 2. The bill's headline is as follows: Cells to correct the conversion of electricity laws, No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes (magnetic transport system). It's under the heading "Why." Senator Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Chairman Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Elíasdóttir Frinífjöljörðurfjörður Elissótir, Birgitmann's Ármannsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdótir, and Sirben Óttarsson Proppé. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. As I traced to the council's resolution proposal, this bill is accompanied by a package that will introduce the commander we discussed earlier in Article 3. I'm just going to read it at the end: Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, with infrastructure across borders, the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council (EC) No. 713/2009 with regard to electrical connections between countries not being carried out in Iceland while such a connection has not been established. Sources that make it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will be built only after the approval of the Generalis and review of the administrative law under the scope of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u53	Mr. President. We're dealing with a 792th case, a change in electrical law, no. 65/2003. We'll discuss this morning and today the three cases presented before the General Assembly in connection with the third energy package after discussing yesterday's Senate resolution proposal by the secretary of state. This arrangement was selected and presented here that these issues would be made up of three. They would be discussed in one context, since, of course, these are related subjects. I may not have been quite in the right place during the program when I suggested things in my opinion. But with the permission of the President, I would like to add only what I had on my mind to say and underline that the memory of the part agrees with the promise made by Friðrik's Árni Frirst, and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson that the matter will be restored to the joint EES committee on the basis of 102.g. The EEA Convention, which is intended for Iceland to be given an exception, including European Commission, No. 713 and 713 from 2009. That way, I draw attention to it, would have the advantage, the legal, beyond the way it was chosen, not the legal uncertainty that follows the route on the part of the government. When I discuss legal uncertainty, Mr. President, I am referring to what from those friends of Stefán Már and the Friðrik of the Árni and they have brought this legal uncertainty to their attention. This legal uncertainty may be centered in its core on the national value of the legal premise, at least Very skilled jurists, is nothing, so I testify to Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's comments on a meeting of foreign authorities. He first said on May 8, that the national value of the legal company was nothing, just a home bridge. He repeated that at a meeting of August 19th. Mr. President. The smaller portion is considered to be in the above law-enforcement list of lawyers, Friðrik Már and Friðurks of the Árni, that the EEA Convention does not expect a government-sponsored method, but, contrary to the standard of agreement, as stated in Article 102. "for the treatment of such a warning procedure are made or accepted by the joint EEA Committee. Here's where we come to something that I think is very important. The legal premise cannot be found in the EEA Convention. The method I've spoken to a group member has been in line with the main proposal of the two writers I've quoted is in line with the EEA Convention. And more importantly, I allow myself to speak to the highest. The secretary of the economy last night, when he expressed his opinion and repeated when he answered the opposition from the people listed here, he believed that there would be no disaster if we were to adopt a case on the same EEA committee. There are people here who have claimed that this would upset the EEA contract during the first few days of a discussion here, or on the first day. That was the case with the highest order. Secretary of State that the EEA agreement would be subject to this case, either to accept this case, or to the risk of the EEA partnership. In fact, a costly foreign - language expert was that apparently to discourage the courage of the people here, trying to paralyze the great opposition that exists in the country throughout the country, as well as to show by surveys. Mr. President. It will be brought to the attention of the EEA agreement to address regulations and post-commands in the national rights of legal action. Iceland cannot be seen to be better than the national commitment to implementing the third energy package in the national rights of the country, in particular the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council No. 713 and 714 of 2009, according to the decision of the joint EEA Committee, as per Article 7. The agreement, regardless of any political issues ahead of us. A professional health committee on the case. The minority concludes by saying that it is most appropriate for the General to reject the induction of the third energy package and to bring the matter to terms of reconciliation at the site of the joint EEA Commission. Mr. President. The two ways that are listed in the subject of Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már are the main proposal of those whom they have confirmed to be the proposal they emphasize, i.e. ... toturnthewaytothe joint committee. The Joint EEA Committee is a European Union Co-operation site and EFTA countries of three countries, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. It makes a lot of decisions. The decisions made there have been legal values, Mr. President. If, as some claim, we have no choice but to agree on this, the cooperation, the European partnership we have, is in an upset state, which is very important to us. What, then, about the legislature? Is it so, then, that it is not what it says in 2 grit? The Constitution, that the President of Iceland and the General will be convened with the authority of law? Is there a committee in Brussels that, in effect, de facto, as someone would say, has authority here, including to introduce European regulations that have been objected and warned against in the most difficult opinion of the two cultures I have quoted? And what are their reasons? They say that a foreign agency gets the right to decide, or at least An indirect effect on the organization, provision and use of important Icelandic energy resources. In order to emphasize his word and his warning, the authors of the final three words; the important Icelandic energy resources. They say that in the 25 years of the treaty's history, there has never been, rather, no precedent for anything as much power as is planned in the 25 - year history of the agreement on our part. They add that, with a reasonable simplicity, they can compare this to a foreign institution being entrusted with a decision-making authority for total resources in Iceland. Can alarm be called higher than those two scholars do in this regard? Mr. President. I emphasize and insist that it is of course very important that we have that opinion at its height. Economic and economic ministers, undoubtedly made on the basis of a great deal of knowledge and long experience, that we are not the poorest of what some have wanted in the nation and in the country. Councilmen, that if this issue was chosen, the path involved, i.e. to seek in the light of the special status of the Icelanders and the national will that Iceland be excluded from these two EU regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u54	President. I would like to continue with my answers and try to get answers that could not be obtained before because of a lack of time. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson agrees when it comes to handing over public power in Iceland outside the landstones, that if it might conflict with the constitution, we'd like to let the constitution have the doubt. In this case there is very little doubt, but as long as it is there, I want the constitution to enjoy the doubt. But I do respect that others interpret it differently than I do. On the other hand, when it comes to bringing the public government from Iceland to the public ourselves, we talked about the fact that the people themselves decided that they wanted to establish a new constitution on the bill of Government. This was in the 2012 National Bank. We took a little spin on this earlier. If I understood why. paritaprevir For example, Ólafur missus Ísleifsson of Isun, he does not fully want to apply what was in that national payment because he wants to deny that many have misunderstood the question, etc. I respect the senator's view, even though I disagree with it. At any rate, there must be a new constitution established on the Council of Control. That bill contains regulations on the nature of Iceland, the environment and natural resources. If those regulations were now in the constitution, they would prevent any national rights contract, economic contract or international agreement with the EEA, or any other person from going into that area. Then we would have secured our natural resources, they would be controlled and owned by the Icelanders. We'd have protected the environment, that some of the inducers could not be forced, etc. We'd have made sure. The two laws on the basis of the bill of the Council of Government depend on the very work that Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, started with the directors of all classes. [[The president calls.]] Is it not acceptable to the senator, and since the nation itself can call for national legal pay, 10% of voters, as is the basis for a bill of administration? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Isn't he in favor of this being done for the end of the season like the highest level? The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has been on the move? Doesn't he support it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He first noted that his judgment is not great, small if I understood the reason. A senator is correct. The two fine scholars that are often quoted in their opinion as being highly skeptical. They make two uses of the word twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u56	Not with regard to the Constitution itself. They say there's no doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u57	That's what they're saying. Of course, we can discuss what we consider. The point is that in two cases there is serious doubt, but they then say that the way in which there is a B, which may appear to have originated in the Ministry of State, you don't know, means that there will be no conflict with the Constitution. But on what basis? Let's take a close look. What is the basis for this? It's based on it, and they say that while the power connection is not working, it's like inactive. And according to that, they do not run into the constitution, at least not while they are inactive. This solution is not exactly classy, and I doubt that it would be exemplary in legal textbooks. This solution is on the basis of Europe's rights as actions are not expected to be made in advance but are expected to be agreed on by the EEA Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] One - sided declarations do not mean much, either for national rights or for national rights, and they are not committed to the recipient of such declarations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u58	President. Now I'm going to make a fourth attempt to get the answer to the question of what attitude. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun is designed to change the Constitution as it is currently in the cooperation of all classes under the highest leadership. Prime Minister and put in the Constitution the rules on the nature of Iceland and the environment where it is protected so that some energy pack or some EEA team could not enter it. We would have guaranteed our own nature in a constitution and a worldwide partnership would not threaten it. Does he agree that another aspect of national property is placed in a constitution so that international treaties would no longer be able to carry it? That's exactly the two things people are afraid of when it comes to the energy package, environmental protection, and national property. After considering the matter carefully and as the discussion has developed, those around me - many were afraid of me - were less frightened. Some say that this is not very dangerous, and if something is very minor, although some are still afraid. It's different. If the nation's resources were in national possession and the Constitution of nature's protection, these two key elements in the energy package would be established in a constitution and no energy packets or EEA partnerships would be threatened. Mind your own business. Ísleifsson Isn't that true of the son of Isenus? That's available. Such cooperation is going on. It is in the government covenant to finish this and to bring the people the court of speech to themselves, that the people themselves may bring a case to them. Mind your own business. paritaprevir Isn't that what the Ísleifsson of Ishoff is saying? Will he not support the completion of this by the end of the election season? It is available and in the government covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u59	Mr. President. I'm not going to answer that. I'm very into the fact that the nation has a choice in its own matters. I'm very into it because there's strong defenses around Icelandic nature, so I expect this to answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u60	You want it in the constitution? ... that law...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u62	The president asks why. A senator not to hold speeches in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u63	Mr. President. I have declared my position, I have nothing to do with the work that is going on between groups under the leadership of prime minister. I just look forward to seeing what comes out of it, and I do not look forward to benefiting from it. I agree with measures and measures that have fallen in order to increase what is sometimes called a direct democracy. I also highly support the protection of Icelandic nature and the environment to sea and country, so I say now. I look forward to seeing what is going on in this regard, and I expect these suggestions to achieve a wide - scale harmony. That's one of the things I think are very desirable and essential in changing the constitution. Now I expect I've already answered the question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u64	Almost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u65	Mr. President. Hv. A senator once again spoke about some aspect of fresh meat and the language we have discussed in the council during the last days that has to do with the nation's energy issues, but these issues have no parallel. In the meat matter, courts concluded that Iceland has not properly introduced contract commitments based on the decision made by the European Commission. Implementation in Iceland was in a way that by means of the induction process, a bill was submitted several times without a release when it was finally approved after several attempts in a somewhat different form from what was originally proposed. The foreign secretary's proposal is that the third energy package's rules will be introduced, but some of it is a state of hibernation where they don't apply in Iceland. There will be no resemblance to the meat problem unless the Allied decided first to lay a sea cable and then decide for themselves not to follow the rules about it, on the induction process. If you start thinking about this whole Belgium thing right now. The members of the Central Party have been talking about the past few weeks, kind of, I think, what the matter in Belgium is, that they negotiate to become a part of something but do not introduce it, similar to our meat business, which was set for sea transport and agricultural interests about 10, 12 years ago, as it did.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u66	Mr. President. Of course, getting a attitude will be of great benefit. A senator - and I thank you for the answer - to embarrassing legal questions, very interesting. But I would have thought that in such an important case, it might be worth one Mass to get the opinion of established experts in these topics, both as regards the comparison between energy and meat issues that seem to be on the minds of some doubt. A senator and the comparison between our situation and the situation in Belgium, on the other hand. True history will only be seen by the government's schemes, according to this route B, to accept the energy package but not to accept it because it is legal warnings preventing these types from having value. Hv. A senator may be able to discuss this if he wants to. That is why this concern is clearly seen in their letter to Friðrik minister of foreign affairs on April 10th. Since they deal with the possibility that the legal defense will be the cause of ESAs to appeal to us Már a treatal Árni.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u67	Mr. President. If I have the correct information, these are the 690 issues that are going on in the European Union in a similar way to this so-called Belgium case discussed here. And Belgar has about 20 issues of his own. The question is, have a why. A senator has any ideas about what exactly it is about? Is it true that they haven't introduced this, that they've delayed the process, or that they haven't? I'm good at what I'm talking about. A senator's doing it a little better. But then I'd like to talk to you for a minute, because Stefán Már and Friðrik Hirst's letter from April 10 has been discussed many times here. Now it's time to think I saw it. A senator was at a meeting of the State Department earlier this month, where they appeared before the committee and what their case says is as follows: If available documents are read together, i.e. The Council of State Ministers and Parliamentary Reunion proposals for travel, industrial and innovation, as well as for the legislature of the latter, in addition to reports and other evidence, we feel that the warnings are properly held there. This is the latest from these jurists that have discussed the matter. But, hey. A senator constantly talks about older times and older data. This is the latest part of the case. What surprises me is that it appears that Hirst Már and Fridur Hirr did not have the overall picture until this meeting earlier in this month, which focuses on the overall picture and is among the issues we are recommending on the job board. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that these jurists, which he often cites - must be very important in today's discussion. This is the latest one that has been published in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u68	Mr. President. I will not minimize the importance of this letter, but what is the subject? They think, describe their assuming that these warnings are properly introduced. This is hardly a legal point, that they are properly introduced to relevant sources. Is there any legal intervention to see if this has been sufficiently introduced? The legal questions involved are not whether this was presented. The legal question is whether these legal warnings have any national value. That's the legal question. And their letter on April 10 points out that they have doubts about it because they themselves bring up a legal issue, which was then spoken of as a singularity, might lead to an ESA's appeal against us to break our contracts. The same is true in an interview that the websiter used to describe one of the authors, Friðriksson Hirst, who described his concerns. [[Foreground on: When?]] Same day, April 10th. It's a real thing. I'm gonna let myself say, too, because it's the best. In the hall, I believe this matter is so serious, the danger we can get over the contract violations and the damages, possibly, following, that there is a reason to postpone this case and to further investigate this aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u69	Mr. President. We'll discuss three conferences linked to the multi-mediad, so-called third energy package. For one thing, the laws that the energy package calls for are primarily related to increased independence and power rights from the energy monitoring agency. The other two matters involve the fundamental changes we made in order to meet people's concerns that it was not clear enough that the decision about the possible sea cables was in the hands of us Icelanders and none of us. True, most experts now believe that a third energy package does not exactly change our decision - making rights, but we have listened carefully to and seriously to people's concerns. That is why we proposed the adjustment, or added, of the matter that a cable would be laid only with the approval of the Generals. It is therefore wrong at times to hear, not to listen to people's anxieties, and to say that doubts have not been resisted. More than once, the case has been postponed to allow more and more careful discussion, and the matter has been changed to overcome anxiety and doubts. It is also wrong sometimes heard, that this case is being run through. The General Assembly was first formally informed about the third energy package with a central trade Department note in June 2010, nine years ago. The case was followed by one of the first persons who received a comprehensive review of the Generals in accordance with the Constitutional treatment of the EEA after the follow-up was performed, and there was the top point. Financial and economic minister, president of the Independence Party, as president of the clan. Foreign Affairs. For the next six years, i.e. Until 2016, at least Nine memos to the General on the matter, and three members of the Parliament discussed the matter and gave their opinion. Then, on the basis of that review and review of the General Assembly and the conclusions of discussions about the restructuring and adaptation adopted by the Government to Iceland in May 2017, the recording of the third energy package at the EEA Treaty with the usual and standard government-based warnings about the legal adjustment we are going to deal with today was established by the European Commission. If this nine - year - old process calls for driving a case through, I have to say that there's some of the slowest driving that can happen, and you must also ask yourself, " What exactly does it mean to go slow? ' It was not surprising in 2010 that this matter was to be discussed in a hall more than any other matter in the history of the Generalist, and it might also be said that the then minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, also did not think of the years he and his Ministry worked hard to prepare the case that the matter would be the most discussed in the history of the council, for a rather unexpected argument has been used against the matter. After all that happened, it was rather unexpected that doubts were to be made regarding the matter as a constitution. It had been evaluated many years ago by the General Assembly. Nevertheless, this question was raised, but it has now been completely destroyed. Second, it was unexpected, the simple thing to say, that the theory should suggest that Iceland might be obliged to accept a cable. We have heard many of our most skilled experts argue that this understanding is unconcerned, even presenting it as legislative and legal science fiction. The European Union's energy manager has confirmed our understanding that transpiration is the independent decision of the Icelanders. The EFTA countries in the EEA have published a joint declaration for the application and the Norwegian Parliament also declared it when the energy package was approved there. Third, it was unexpected, and perhaps the most unexpected of all, to say that the third energy package involves a fundamental change in energy management in Iceland. This may have been read in each article after the second, but the authors seem to have just missed the first and second energy package 15 years ago, where the big change took place, apparently, is now being done. You see, the third energy package is a long way from being a fundamental change in energy policy in this country. On the contrary, it is in full agreement with the steps taken previously, and it is a relatively small step compared to the previous. The market and competition of the energy sector with the first and second energy package was a major step in which some opposers of the third energy package seem to have failed to notice. In contrast, today we are, in principle, only increasing our independence and authority rights of the energy management Agency, continuing to promote consumer protection and agree that there would be some guidelines for international connections if we ever decided to establish such connections. In this regard, it may be noted that if we wanted to connect even if none were the energy package, we would likely have to submit to them. In addition, if we ever plan to land a cable, we need all the rules around such a project. Such a rule would not exist, it would have to be done, either by means of a bill for new laws or by changing many laws today. Finally, an important part of the third pack of energy, even that most important, has already been introduced, but it attracts to the Landsnet system plan, which we introduced on our own initiative several years ago. So here is a logical step on the same course of energy freedom and competition that Iceland has been following in the EEA work forever. Certainly it is not a matter contrary to Icelandic interests, let alone the threat of resource custody, which I would never suggest or accept. So we still control the extent to which energy resources are owned by the public and we still control where it is applied. A debate about energy will continue after this case is resolved. I'm glad you're here. The discussion about it has shown that we have enough to talk about energy. We need to increase awareness of the changes towards market development, freedom and competition that took place in 2003, based still on an older government decision, at least Back to 1999, if not further, of following that course. I feel that there's a scar on someone's will to disappear from that path, and even bring some kind of universalism into the energy sector, where there's all business in the hands of the public and the private enterprise is eliminated from the platform. For example, I think we would now late recommend such an arrangement in the fishing field that there was only one state output, perhaps at the most, one fairly large town output in Reykjavík to counterweight. Of course, these two resources differ from those that produce them. However, the other is indistinguishable that it is never in the interests of consumers to stand in the way of competition. The first, second and third, energy packages are efforts to promote competition and, in fact, rather, rather moderate effort because they absolutely do not straddle any exchange of enterprises, as some have claimed, only equal relations, and especially normal and reasonable, separation between the manufacturer and the owner and the person who owns and runs the infrastructure that flows through. If the ring road belonged to a travel service company, other tourism companies would likely be paid abnormally high prices for using it. If its ports were owned by its largest projection, other projects are likely to be made abnormally high in foreign lands. If the country's airports were owned by the largest airline, it is likely that other airlines would pay abnormally high landing charges. This is in my mind, in fact, the true core of the energy package and the other two as well, equal access to the infrastructure for competition's enjoyment. Rather than rejecting that goal, we should support it. And if we feel that our goal has not been reached, we should look for ways to achieve it for the simple reason that this is a reasonable goal. It's what I think is important in all the discussions about these matters, that the induction is not entering into the scene, taking power or custody over our resources, but when we have made decisions on how to use these resources in a certain way, there is a common rule here and elsewhere that should ensure equal access to our bodies to them. I also repeat that although the discussion was rather long, some hours too long, there are good things that have come out of it. I look forward to a future disturbance in a debate on energy issues. There's enough to be taken, e.g. if you consider how much energy is needed in the future. What's she going to wear? How can we balance the cost of electricity? We are already doing so today, but that is not enough. 980 million. K. Not enough for a year. Exploitation of electricity, the opportunity to build wind energy, opportunity to perform small inactivations for farmers and other landowners, etc. And that, of course, applies to the rule and environment in which we are now living. I make no comment about it, but I have to make a comment about it as if we are taking those steps now. We did that 20 years ago. We're not taking that step right now. We're not making any basic changes in the energy policy in Iceland through the introduction to these packages. It's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u70	President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Minister of this particular advance. What exactly do they mean, and what is their bite? The synonym says, with the permission of the president, that the European Union's electronic energy system will not be triggered by the transpiration system of another country, except by the approval of the General Assembly. What does that mean? This means that the Council must conclude that, i.e. In the form of a synonym? I think I'm more likely. Does this mean that the Council must make some legal adjustments? I don't think it's any less likely. But the minimum agreement is to be made with the Parliamentary decree of the Generals. To agree that by the linking of the national electrical power system to another country's electricity system, the cables, as stated in the Senate, must come to the approval of the Council. This agreement - Is it a contingency? If there is an interpretation that must come about, then it is considered normal and necessary, as the report says, that there is absolutely no doubt that any decision must be made by the Council to determine whether or not to be made on such a project, i.e. A cable. If the International Parliament's involvement with this case and the approval of the Councilis, as stated in the bill text, it is quite clear that any doubt is taken that the Allied Council could eventually begin their discussion of Congress resolution, that if they want to stop their plans, they can talk again and again in a subsequent discussion of a judicial hearing, these five-minute speeches that we have seen to create a language code. This needs to be clear. What says in the council arrangement, that it requires approval of the Generals, in what form is that consent? Is that in the form of a synonym?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u71	Mr. President. That's the right thing to say. A senator said that such consent would be made in a synonym. If this is accepted, it will stand in a synopsis on the construction of electrical power systems that will not be carried out without the approval of the council. It would appear in the council's resolution, that if it did happen, such a procedure would be agreed upon by the Council. But in the discussion that we could witness a filamentist, if it were possible, that is, of course, all council proposals and bills that come in here, so I would really like to have a discussion with why. A senator on the Constitution law and whether it is as it should be from the council. But there is another discussion. Of course, there could be a filibuster on what is said here that it is not possible to do. She will not be able to access the strategy's implementation until the General has approved it, she will not be able to access it. So unless the council said, "We accept it," you can't put a cable on it. Of course, it can be handled like any other matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u72	President. It's just clear as it's been before. If these watchmen are approved, they will do nothing but strengthen their defenses for those who do not want a cable. Let's see if those who are fighting the case at the council won't agree, as if they've fought against a Senate decree for the energy package itself with a filament. For the language they're fighting for, they're recognizable sources, about the ability to file a filancy proposal to put a cable out because it will be in accordance with the omens to accept it. It's very good to be clear about this. Very good to get that advance notice. But I reiterate: I will continue to vote against the energy package itself as a concierge. Because I want to give the constitution the benefit of the doubt. It's not much doubt, but he's present and I'm a bit stuck for as far as it goes. I understand others who take a different stand in this regard. But these watchmen are good, strengthening the position of those who want to stop the cables or stretch out the discussion, and who can use a filancy against him at the council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u73	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator that we are, in effect, exerting ourselves on this decision. It is harder, if this case is approved, to take such a move than would be today. However, as I mentioned in my talk earlier, I mention that we have no rule on such a project. We have no assessment of material advantages, with or against, such projects that would, of course, need to be done too. Even if we didn't have these cases, and some minister wanted to put a cable or think he had to agree if there were any interested in such things, we should build the book and bring it in here. Of course, if it were not a democratic larger part for such a project, it would also be possible to stop all the issues that are inevitable to take on work and accept here so that the project could be taken over. We could not do so now because we have no rule around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. It's a little interesting. I am grateful for this warning, whether he keeps water or not, at the very least he is inclined to deal with those who have very much doubts like me. However, there was a reason. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, with an article in the summer - and it did not contain any of the songs in the community and how the nation really is divided in its stand against this third pack of energy - and built his idea that there would be a national decree on the sea cables, not just Generalis to decide, but by national law. The fact is, a group of people made exactly a change to this synonym, where we do exactly this, wishes that instead of being the General, the nation will be the one who will intervene in the repairing of an sea cable. Then I ask the highest. Minister: How does she feel about the ideas of a fellow slave? This idea was very interesting to the Fleir. Does Ministers believe that there may be a part in trying to bridge the large gap that is now out in the community what is involved in the induction of this energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u75	Mr. President. Of course, it has taken a lot of discussion about this subject and a lot of time to try, which can be criticized for how successful it is to share the information that these are two separate cases. The induction of the third energy package does not increase the likelihood of a cable, our duty to do it, or anything else. That is why I would have simply wanted to settle that matter and then put on the program a discussion about sea cables, the benefits, and the defects of such a project. I'm very calm about it, though, that if the Council agreed to perform such a procedure, it would go to the nation because we haven't even discussed what our general view of such activities is. In this respect, I feel that the form is not everything but the subject of things as well. In my mind, we actually haven't even placed ourselves on the agenda for a sea cable discussion, i.e. In a way. We have only considered whether we are obliged or not to take such a project or accept it as a matter of interest, but we have not discussed it materially. We still do not know what it would really mean and what it would mean, that we know the will of a council after many years in a changed environment. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to take this in the right order.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u76	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The question was clear, if it adhered to the ideologies that have shown that the nation could have the last word on the sea cable. Although the cable is not on the schedule, we are dealing with changes in the electrical transport system in the Council Recontraction Directive. 26/148, which says, on permission of the president: The link between the nation's electronic energy systems to other countries's electricity systems through cables is not going to be triggered unless it's agreed by the Generals' approval. So the question is, could it be rather than being a crevice that, according to the approval of the Generals, we have an unyielding response to the nation's agreements? Trust the highest. Minister, if, in due course, the people, to have the last word of the bellows?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u77	Mr. President. Such a decision may well be made in a national law. Whether we have any of those regulations in the constitution, I don't know. Whether it's a great resistance to the public on that matter and I don't know what else else else to do at the council. Today, a great deal of concern has been discussed in sending the matter into national pay. I think it's important that we have some kind of rule around it. I'm quite honest that I'm not as forward on national pay on all kinds of cases as many people here. That's my political opinion and approach to a national law. It's got to be a frame. We need to determine in advance what sort of situations will be there, under what circumstances. I view those elected to represent the public in the country as sitting by making all kinds of decisions, both easier and difficult, popular, and unpopular. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for a fine speech. I have to admit, I heard a raggedy sound in it out here, but I got the lid. What I'd like to ask the Minister about Regulation 944/201, 3rd. ..... Part of the so-called fourth energy pack, green energy package, winter pack, or what you call it. It says in English, by permission of the president: ▪Member State's Hall of State in the National Law does not sub-ly moder cross-border track in electrodynamic practice... In the translation of the following: Member States should make sure that their national laws do not unduly inhibit companies with electricity across borders. Later in this article, the president's permission says: ▪ The depression of electrostasis or new international bodies on Memorial States, and the exactness of the medical practice, is observed at the end of the day. Or... distribution of electromechanic production of a new partnership between Member States and to ensure electrical energy that truly reflects demand and supply. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Since national law is not to prevent unnecessary electrical exchange across borders, what would the definition of nonessentially be involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u79	Mr. President. With the recycled electricity directive, this fourth electrical directive, consumer rights are increasing and they have further freedom to select electricity dealers, etc. I can't tell you what the definition is of an unnecessary article in a case that has no publicity or treatment at our level in this cooperation. What I can say is that we have set up a special group that will take care of our interests there. We focus on the development of energy issues in our cooperation. It's probably a year before we start working on what of this pure energy package comes into our rights, what perspective we maintain, where we wish to be free, where we wish to adapt, and over our heads what eventually will become part of that introduction to us. Like what? A senator takes such a process for many years. Of course, it's clear to me that the objective of this energy package is a common system, and I don't think anyone has said anything else. It is the goal of evolution that it is a common system. This does not change our not being connected, and no one can oblige us to be connected. If we make a decision based on ethical grounds for not being connected, then the rules that we will naturally take into consideration, as follows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I completely agree with the Minister that what's being introduced or what's inside the pipe is one system. The Minister is absolutely right. The aim is to create one market, one system, so all countries connected and have created EU energy policy at the same level as the same package. That's why I'm only concerned that if the government's policy is to think that a energy package of three is an independent phenomenon and then a four energy package comes as another alien, because the connection between them is most of the obvious. One leads to another in these inductions. Power pack four is a continuation of a pack of three energy. In fact, there is a change in the type we are to accept now. That's why I have to admit that I'm worried about that, because I know that the stakeholders are doing a lot of research on a four-day energy package and I know that the government has been looking at this, too, not to see what this means exactly. For example, this article, that the state should see to it that its laws do not inhibit it, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u81	I think the bottom line is this: The first, second and third energy package is not about the energy management package from the EU. That's basic. They are not about central management from the EU. It's a common market. It's not about central control. Member States'own personal rights are emphasized in the EU procedure covenant, and it will not change with the next package. The definition of unnecessary obstacles is, in fact, no matter what the definition, it does not alter the basics of our decision-making rights and the aims of these packages are not the central management of energy issues from the EU. No matter how the interpretation is on the nonessential basis, it does not affect whether or not we need to lay a cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u82	A respectable president. It is interesting to hear any doubt as to which the aims of the energy package induction are: a common internal market, however not a media control. You can't quite figure out what a joint internal market really means if each state of the 28 that may be available to the market and plus to the rest of us - whether we're on separate terms and each with its approach to energy sharing into the inner market. It's kind of too complicated for me. I didn't mean to keep up with it, see where it's going, and hear it. What I'd like to talk about is this emissary who is thought to be very nice in that way so as to be in connection with the Congress resolution that is also under here, No. 26/148, join the new number, as follows: The link between the nation's electronic energy systems to other countries's electricity systems through cables is not going to be triggered unless it's agreed by the Generals' approval. As I mentioned above, in inquiry to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, now that it is such that her fine platoon brother Haraldur Benediktsson wrote an article in summer and had a certain tendency to do so, at least Try, try to see if the waves could be slided out in the community, and bring about a slight calm towards what seems to be a common disaster in the introduction of a pack of three energy. Of course, a pack of energy is three third steps out of five visible steps into a common internal energy market, which is clear. The fact is, though, that. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson had this idea that the alarm was not merely in that the Allied Council had the final word about it and made a decision as to whether there would be a cable, but whether it could not be possible for the people to be in trouble themselves and to make that decision. It is fun to say that such a change has been left on the inside. The General Assembly of the Icelanders from Floki people since spring. Actually, we didn't get to measure her, nor was there a chance, before we took this break. However, it is a word of speech, the adjustment of the motion, that, instead of the words, the Allied Church would come: a vote for the National Remuneration. This is exactly what the mob has told us from the beginning. We feel that there is nothing more natural than that the nation has the last word to say about something huge that will affect them for the future. I noticed that the highest. The minister mentioned earlier that she did not approve of putting all sorts of cases into a national fee and that it would then have to be well - reserved and so on. I don't call our energy resources a any kind of thing to say. I call it a huge deal. I call it a priceless resource that has nowhere to go but in the nation itself, that is, they are the ones to make that decision. We're not supposed to be here and make divisions or anything like that. We should give the nation a chance to do research. We are to take the lead in this regard, the World of Congress. We should be diligent in introducing the giant in the community, discussing it with the people, and discussing it with our people. We're good enough to go around to collect votes for a week and stuff like that. We should also be diligent in introducing this huge issue that will affect the nation's future, presenting it shamelessly, and throwing it away. That's how I see it. Whether it is the EEA contract at its time or the EU Member State's application, if it is found, the electronics or anything else, it is the people's decision to make. Hence, a group of people proposed a change in the synopsis proposal here in spring. It involves, as mentioned earlier, that the nation will have the last word on whether and when it will ever be brought to this site.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u83	Mr. President. Bjarni Már Magnússon is a professor of law and a doctor at the University of Reykjavík. To hell with it. paritaprevir An Sæland hareland interviewer, who ended his case, at a meeting with us at the Foreign Affairs Committee, he showed up, and has also done so in the paragraphs and interviews, how the United Nations Oceanic Convention guarantees full control, whether it is a line, stringing, or anything else, on what we call the normal weekend, the ocean bottom, the 12 sailors, every coastal state, and no international agreement, e.g. on business, energy transport, or anything, even with some sort of four freedoms within a table, these rights can be met. There is even more to it than that. A reference to a so-called Vienna agreement on international communication. I haven't heard much of this from the third energy package and the constantly waving the sea cables. Now I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: How does this harmonize with the prophecy that the third energy package is a coercion layer, regardless of the use of a bead or a humdrum? The evidence that we have presented, many kinds of, that this is not correct, nor has the power package been affected by opposers, nor has it been an example of what I call forced lines or sea cables. Then I'm not talking about the EEA, I'm talking about the 28th Europeans. You see, you can't find it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u84	A respectable president. I can tell you clearly and directly that I have never claimed that the activation of the third energy package would be the same as the fixing of an ocean cable. It's off and on. I still believe Iceland is a sovereign state. What I have noted, however, is that it is far from above any doubt that we could do harm. I've talked about it and it's not just me, it's experts too, including. Justices, Supreme Court attorneys, and professors of law, who say that it is far from overcoming any doubt. We also rely on tributary government, one of which is called judicious authority. All interested ones who are not content with their legal releases to the government are at hand seeking their rights to court halls. I'm not able to stand here, and I'm going to make a decision that the Icelandic government can't pay its own damages by having national rights, e.g. The EEA Convention, where at any point we have no specific energy defined as a special product, is just a product. It has also been observed at a meeting of a financial committee, which was a representative of the State Department of State that simply said: The Icelandic government is forbidden by the EEA Convention to block the flow of cargo into the internal market. While we haven't defined the electrical energy as a product of a special nature, I can't see that it does not generally fit the term product, like the EEA Convention. I have never claimed that the induction of the third energy package would be the same signal by having a sea cable here to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u85	Mr. President. Hv. The senator learned to do the law. We can make ourselves useful, and then some European court needs to do what has to be done with this agreement. In other words, the court can judge us against the United Nations Sea Treaty because we said: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Wait a minute. A senator explaining this to me. I wasn't just going to talk about it. I was going to talk about meaningful terms. I think the reasonings of the Middle-class people and the Gangs are the same in all this speech. They've been created for meaningful terms, such as the European Energy Union, which would be developed as European Energy Union or something like that. Similarly, the European Energy Agency is expected to be ACER. Now everyone knows what the power agencies are. They have five to ten categories, not just the power control. Of course, ACER is an electrical facility. I'm gonna mention it here, and I want to know what to do. A senator's motive for this. Why are words and terms that falsely describe what is being discussed? That's it. We can think of a common network of trains in Europe, which is a major factor in Europe's transport, all named in one of Europe's Railroads. If this were done, some surveillance agency would have become a European Railway Institute. This method and what was exposed here, to reason. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, who is not here today, had been advised to discuss 100 patents at the hands of one party, the pedophiles - this is what I've been criticizing as a polamusism, democracy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u86	A respectable president. It's starting to get a little fun, and I appreciate it. A senator for the record. Do you want us to go make some concepts or what? I can't tell you why this is called an energy agency or an energy relationship. I suppose this is in that ACER is the surveillance provider involved in handling matters in the event of a conflict between countries with a common interest in the internal market, i.e. if the countries have not been able to resolve the issue within six months, do I remember? [[Up front.]] To talk about the people's language in the same place as the Central Party - I'm not in the Central Party at all, these are two very different categories. I've come close to my case in a very different way. I've tried to get him closer to a higher legal level from the EEA Convention, and I've tried to get on with it and also with the Marine Convention. It's the same with everything else, we're a sovereign state, and when we make ourselves a liability in the various areas of national commitments that we're also under, it's simply because we've used the sovereignty, as we can make ourselves uncircumved within the 12 miles of our right. How, though, does that affect the national commitments we have also accepted? That's the big question. It is in this doubt, and it is far from overstepped. If this were beyond doubt, we would not be discussing it right now. That's for damn sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u87	Mr. President. So I'm going to begin with my first speech today, first of all, the bill on the so-called independence of the Power Institute that will go out that the Agency is no longer under Minister, and will no longer be a minister of custody, and no longer be subject to Icelandic voters, will not submit to democratic authority. Then it is likely to be set up as if this institution were to become some kind of state in the state. That alone is a very bad enough, very clear example of systemization of the worst sort if they are to be set up as organizations, each one by the other, under democratic authority. But do people really believe that this change, this bill, is all about making an energy agency independent from voters? Are there people who really believe that this is the goal of this case, which is presented as part of the induction of the third energy package? If some believe it, they will have swallowed the hook and sink and should have studied the matter further and, of course, should still be doing so. The evidence shows this. This is reflected in EU rules. This is stated in the approved European Commission from a notorious meeting in June 2016 in the report No. 93/2017. If it was just about the independence of the Power Institute, why is the matter introduced as part of the third energy package? V.E.G. As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance has settled this matter, he did it yesterday. He described this as an important part of meeting the third energy package, and this would take us further into its induction than Belgium. Belgar would not have made enough changes in her Power Institute to meet the role of the National Order, a type of ACER, the European Energy Agency. But it's not a problem in Iceland, because we're going to go beyond the Belgar, and we're going to do all the EU's demand for the effectiveness of the third energy package. Still, some members of Parliament still insist that this is about the independence of the Agency and even the consumer protection and, as we heard this morning, the funding of the Agency. First of all, it's clear from the evidence, as I mentioned earlier regarding the independence of the Agency that it's not about that. This is about bringing the Agency from democratic power to foreign government. Secondly, consumer protection. Do people really believe that increasing the market area of energy in Iceland will cause them to reduce energy prices or improve consumer protection? If they believe this, they don't consider them desirable to divide up land reactivation or at least Privacy if the market of energy is suddenly becoming suitable for Iceland in particular, here, where circumstances are far different from what is known almost everywhere else? We have built up here, the nation, the people, the State, and their fortresses and new products to provide electricity at lower prices than in other places and to build up commercial life in the country. Then there's the financing. There's a couple of 'em. Congress officials have argued that it is absolutely unacceptable that the Agency is being expelled in the sense that it needs to receive contributions from the State. Wait a minute, is it a government policy that government agencies should expel themselves? Is the police supposed to run off with the collect tickets? Is the Landskeeper supposed to fire himself by charging the patients? What are the tax payies for? Isn't that to keep out all the services and institutions we have to run in Iceland? It is obvious, however, why Power Institute is to be cut off from the State and given additional authority to pay for it. That is exactly why no one is tempted to use the government's financial resources to have some opinion of this institution, and it should not be known to us Icelanders. It's supposed to be under foreign authority. But as is so often the case in political discussions these days, dramas are used. In fact, as shown in the evidence of this, whether from the European Union, from the EFTA itself, or even from the government itself, there is talk of consumer protection or a professional and independent institution. However, there is a feeling that this has only been different with the National Institute of Energy in other countries because, in the case of the Power Institute, ESAs will be involved. In some way, it's better. But let's see what's involved in ESAs, in this relationship between the Power Institute and the ACER. ESAs must be used as a kind of mail carrier, accepting recommendations and tips from ACER, and presenting them to the National Energy Institute, while at the same time tracking that this is being followed. True, ESAs may take the initiative to send letters to ACER, but ACER is not obliged to follow ESA indications. The ACER decision on this itself. If that is the case, where does it go? Yeah, back to ACER. And who are the judges at the ACER? It's the agency itself. Thus, ESA's power against this institution is really nothing. The ESAs will attend some meeting here. But there are repeated times, no matter what people are discussing, that the ESA has no authority to participate in votes, has no right to vote. Is it good for you to have ESAs like this intermediate? How has ESA been to us in recent years? Has EsSA always been with Icelanders or with the interests that governments consider to be Icelandic interests? Has the Agency not been more often in an effort to force us to do more and more to meet the EU requirements and, of course, through the EEA Convention? And has not ESAs often had a completely different understanding of this than the Icelandic government, to make a recent impression on the import of raw non-fried meat and unbridled foods? Has not the ESA time and again contributed to the case of the Icelandic government? So the question is this. This role as an intermediate, does it not matter, or is it designed to further increase the demand in Iceland compared to what the European Union enjoys? There's an extra monitor to check that we're going to do everything right after the third energy package. Of course, as is always true in large cases, there is even what appears on paper, and people deal with it, experts also, but it comes to the point where politicians need to take action, to exercise political leadership, and to do what they really think is right. But it does help when facts appear, when reality shows what is up and what is down. This has happened in cases related to the third energy package. We've taken care of the last three and some, in order to form a lawsuit in the European Union at 12 European countries, because it had not guaranteed that the right to use it would lead to an tender supply of energy. It turns even that the French government firm and activation that this company built long ago, but the European Union now expects in the power force of this new energy medium that this French government or French government will turn out its rights for use. The same is true in different forms in these 12 countries. If anyone continued to have doubts after this, the European Union itself was finally explained by earlier this summer or just a month ago, when the European Union announced that there was a solution to Belgium, one of the Community's founding countries, the country where the European Union's headquarters are located. The EU intends to compromise Belgium because Belgium did not correctly introduce the third energy package, which is said to be a lawsuit based on the third energy package. And the points that Belgar had not done well, not correctly, are just those that may have been a single controversial debate over the energy package here in Iceland, and many have differing views and experts. established. However, here the European Union has concluded by formal notifications and lawsuits on how to interpret the third energy package and may surprise no one to see the relationship as to how the energy package should be interpreted as it is described. in introductions that some have been irritated about being referred to, although it is known that European rights are greatly driven by goals rather than by the direct text of the law. I think that's a reason, because of how well this European Union's announcement is, to read it. It's not very long, it's the first part, because it's so direct, it's so clear, and it's taking care of what you've figured out here in Iceland. But in the announcement dated July 25th. reports the European Commission on this issue by permission of the President: The European Commission decided this afternoon to aim Belgium for the European Court's failure to ensure the correct implementation of the European energy market policies (energy directive 2009/72/EC) and gas markets (Multi Directive 2009/73/EC). Both rules are part of the third energy package and contain basic rules for right energy market activity. Belgium did not properly legalize certain rules about national rule. In particular, the Belgian rule has not been authorized to make binding decisions on electrical and gas projects but can only offer proposals to the government to make these decisions. The same is true of the fact that European Union's electronic and gas systems are put in place by Belgian governments rather than by national rules as the legislation demands. - As the third energy package demands. - --Loks does not ensure that the electric and gas transport companies are actually controlling all the public systems they are responsible for. As a result, they may not be in position to ensure complete access to all the electrical and gas products responsible for the distribution system. Of course, this goal can have its advantages, but it can also be dangerous here in Iceland, ending in some of the energy market schemes. Governments are aimed at ensuring that a transport system is built up, but then all foreign or domestic people, whatever, have access to this system to which governments are responsible for making sure that they are built up. Of course, it is equally interesting to consider the growing interest in any of Iceland's activation projects and possible marine cables. These are the three areas in which the European Union itself clearly states what is contained in the third energy package. The Belgian government is not to make decisions on any nuclear and gas project in its own country, where the national rule should have full authority to make binding decisions. The same is true of the conditions for linking with the European electricity system. Such conditions should be made, not by Belgian governments, but by the national rule. This is where it's at. It's where it's at. The secretary of finance and, indeed, the State Minister also told us yesterday that this was why the Power Institute bill had to be part of the induction of this third energy package. We were going to fulfill it. We're going to complete our mission, and we're not going to end up in the same thing as the Belgs who received the strange fly in the head that the local government should have something to say about how conditions are set for linking with the European electricity market or about any gas and electricity project being carried out in that country or by what means. The facts are all available in this matter, and the summer has been used to explain the facts and to get a good discussion of the subject in society. And then the European Union truly helped when it in a very decisive and clear way reflected what was being produced in the third energy package, what the consequences would be for the countries that are introduced. Then it comes to the idea that it's all right to come in because we can decide later on in our district or here at the council not necessarily following what we have introduced. It is a very strange approach to complete the full, but to hope that the induction will not be carried out. Why on earth are you fully ensuing? There is no more water than so many other things that have been said about this energy package that has not yet been explained to us here at the council or to Icelandic voters why we have to come in. It's certainly not been explained why we can't use the sources in the EEA Convention to settle the matter beyond any doubt. I guess that's just because they realize that if there was any doubt in the common committee, there would be another display of reality. In the nation's big interest in one of its major resources, we need to discuss things from fact to fact, from the reality that has been being done over and over again. When he faces them, we cannot allow ourselves to accept the induction of this energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u88	Mr. President. I know why. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson knows that there are a number of treaties in general. I understand they're now more than 600. We know it ourselves, we know it, and I know it. So does a senator. Often in such cases, it is because countries have not completed their implementation. It has taken too long, sometimes because it is simply wrong. All equal, we have at least a Fix it. Despite the fact that a spotlight was directed toward this one particular matter in Belgium at this moment, with a clear objective in mind, I wonder, " What's the story? ' Belgium says you're going to do something, then you won't, and the mayor says, "Hey, you didn't do what you said you were going to do, you're gonna have to fix it. What's the story? We're on the issue of independence inside the Power Institute, therefore we're doing the right thing, and that's why I don't see what's in common with the two issues. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether I have heard correctly that he claimed that treaties had been made on the basis of a word of agreement? At the end, I think it's important that we don't mess things up. We're initiating rules where we say we're going to follow rules if we step into the field. The important thing here is: We decide whether or not we're going to step into the field. But if we step on the field, we have common rules. That's what we've signed up to do, but we're not going to have to go into the field against our will. And at the end, because. A senator speaks of the claim that we cannot use 102. See, then I think enough executives have said that, and that's very clear: we can use 102 gr. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just my opinion that there's no reason. We'll do it when we have to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u89	Mr. President. That was a very informative counterpoint. V.E.G. At the end, a minister said: "We're gonna decide if we're gonna step into the field. If we do, we have to follow the rules. You bet your ass I will. This is exactly what we've been pointing to. This is a course we should not enter because it calls for rules that are not suitable for us, not for our interests. Then the first question about Belgium. Is it any wonder that the European Union will sue Belgium if the country does not fulfill what has been promised to do? No, it's not weird. That's what I'm pointing at here, it's just not weird at all. That's what's to be expected. But for what are they suing Belgium? For the purpose of their own country, their government, to determine how electrical energy and gas plants are worked and for the country itself, Belgium, Belgian government, will set conditions for Europe's electrical and gas systems. Because according to the third energy package, as the European Union shows, this country does not have such a source. Therefore, the Agency, the National Regulation, the Belgium Energy Organization, should be allowed to take orders from the ACER and direct these issues, making binding decisions on these issues. So to the rules of play as high as that. A minister rightly says that we need to follow if we step into this field, these are. The European Union has resolved this. These are: The government in the country will not have been the last to decide on how to connect Europe's electricity and gas systems and they will not have been the last to decide on nuclear and gas projects in the country. This must cause concern to the minister. But as for the approach words, I'm referring to the fact that the rules, the laws, are often interpreted in the context of the wording that describes the goals of the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u90	Mr. President. It is a pleasure on the last day of our discussion to feel that we may not have so much open discussion after all, at least not about what the matter is and where we are, although we clearly disagree on what is to be done. I just wanted it to be arranged for a violation of a contract, so it's not possible to appeal on the basis of a word of agreement. The rules of rules, so it's very clear what I meant before when I referred to it if we were going to step into the field, I'm pointing out if we're going to lay a string. Of course, whether we are going to enter the course for an internal energy market, not the fish market, through a cord, but only into an internal energy market, it is important to maintain the decision that was made 20 years ago. We're not making that decision now, it's been made a long time ago. But I hear the sound of it right next to you. A senator in general about these matters, and that may not mean that I don't have a problem with everything that it shows about interest care and standing on your feet and putting in force and stuff like that, but we can't go to a competition who loves Iceland the most. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think this discussion has only been about who is the greatest patriot. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, having a share in the worldwide work is just to build opportunities and positions for those living here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u91	Mr. President. Of course, we agree that international work is important, but it is necessary, in view of the fact that Iceland is a sovereign state, and we have, I think, most of the belief in the sovereignty, to be on the basis of our Icelanders. It is now one of the good things about the EEA Convention that when you have doubts about making decisions that are useful to all, you have the authority to give it a closer look. In such a big issue, I'm incomprehensible to myself that governments are not using that authority. V.E.G. A minister suggested that a decision to enter that field had been made 20 years ago. Does that mean that we just need to keep playing this game? And what does that tell us about the fourth energy package? I know it's the highest. A minister has his second answer, but I'm throwing it up like this. If this is the case, that this government decision is based on our entering this court 20 years ago, can't you read that this requires the introduction of the fourth energy package? You'd think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u92	Mr. President. This bill about the Power Institute and its independence has to do with it, I understand why. Gunnlaugsson If, according to his understanding of the matter, we lose power to foreign organisations, the Icelandic patrolr will have to, in fact, simply follow and have binding decisions accordingly. This is an issue of sovereignty. I agree with what. A senator that, when it comes to the Constitution, we're supposed to let it enjoy the doubt, and in this respect, if there's any doubt that it is contained within the constitution, we're not supposed to give it away from the public government in Iceland. But I'd like to ask you why. Senator: What about when it comes to bringing public power from Iceland's politicians, including himself? and counsellors, and there's a lot of Ministers in Iceland, to the public? This work is being done in accordance with the Treaty on the revision of the Constitution. Hv. paritaprevir A member of the prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who covers four matters that make the public's power and resources more powerful than natural resources. This is available before the end of this terms. I'd like to hear where it is. There's a senator on it. This is about how nature protection is established in a constitution, to take out that Iceland could be forced into all kinds of resource uses that damaged nature. This could not be done because they were protected from a constitution, and no international agreement could violate it. Another factor many are afraid of in this matter is resources, that they belong to the nation. It would be established in the constitution that they belonged to the nation. With regard to a state-of-the-art hall, if the General approval of a diplomat, as some would like to say, is going on here beyond what is permitted. The entire administrative room would have to be paid nationally. It could be stopped by the people. It's what's on the table and it's offered before the end of the election season and that in all cases 10% of voters could call it in a national bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is what lies ahead. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunugason of the starfshópur of the daughter of Katrín Jacob for a change in the constitution. How does he feel about this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u93	Mr. President. Thank you for an interesting inquiry or an answer. I became involved in politics as a sort of rebel against the system and spoke of an increasing direct democracy. In fact, I believe that this must, of course, be a mixed, representative democracy and a direct democracy. But I'm very much in favor of growing democracy that way that I can answer a question. The senator in charge of the matter very simply: Yes, I believe that we are to raise a direct democracy in Iceland. In terms of the other measures for the third energy pack, the problem with the European Union and the EEA Convention is that humans cannot guarantee afterwards. The arrangements have to be taken before the contract has been adopted, and then there is a risk of a break-in. Even if we had a national law not to comply with some of the rules of the third energy package, it would not be used to free us entirely from having to comply with the agreement. So it could be that the people were faced with the question: Do you want to allow the sea cable to be restored? Or: Do you want the Icelandic State to pay and so much damage for the future? This is exactly the problem we face. The decision will now be made on the nature of the EEA agreement and on what rules we must follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u94	Mr. President. Then comes exactly the fourth energy pack and fifth energy pack, and so on. There are all kinds of dangers that people see standing before them in the future. What is available before the end of this terms and in the administration covenants, including in the service group. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, sitting in his line of defense. If they were present, we would not be in trouble with the third energy package regarding the risks that many see. During this election period, we have an opportunity to enter the Constitution of the democratic rights of the country to bring a case to them, if 10% sign. Today, about 6%◯7% have signed the third energy package in a national law. That would have been possible. Is it not evident, then, that we attach the four factors that prevent us from doing so in the future, to the protection of nature, to the possession of our resources and how we use them, to bring a case to us, and if it is to be approved by some kind of sovereignty deed, the nation will go into binding national law, as stated in the bill of Government Council? [[The president calls.]] This is an invitation right before the end of the season. [[The president calls.]] Supports him. Don't you think it's a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u95	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator on these matters. I don't trust myself to claim that we must agree on all of them, but I agree that the importance of a constitution is to provide the nation most protected in matters most important to them, certainly. I also agree that if there were any further steps taken, this could help to provide specific defenses on this issue, which are not there. There is concern, however, that many people now talk about going the other way and removing the so - called sovereignty code of the Constitution. That's why I'm totally against it. But with regard to the main objective, I agree. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u96	A respectable president. In particular, there were two statements that confronted me, or two, in my speech. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunnulson earlier, who I wanted to make up for the subject. On one hand, it bowed to the so - called Belgian language, at least I do not seem to have anything to do with any of the issues we've been discussing in this matter. As far as I can see, the charges are two-way, towards independence, let's call it the Institute of Energy Belga, and then we call them the owner's separation of transport companies, i.e. Our land net, and out of that law, we are, in fact, excluded and reserved for. The European Union case against Belgium is not a matter of new connections to energy efficiency across borders. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory is indicating some kind of parallel in the shape of a cable in Iceland. This is totally unrelated to matters. On the other hand, the other thing I was going to ask him about is that the statement he made earlier, that ACER has some sort of totalitarian authority in the issues that might arise between the EEA and the ACER. As far as I could hear, the senator claimed that such disagreements would be finalized on that issue of the ACER itself, i.e. Other members of the dispute. Then I've read something and I'm gonna pray. A senator finding this statement a place, because I can't better see that a conflict that might arise between the ESA and the ACER would simply be referred to the joint of the EEA Committee. That is exactly what the principle is. That's why I'm asking. A senator will answer whether he will stick to the claim that ACER has some sort of totalitarian authority in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u97	Mr. President. First, I'll answer the second question. Yes, I'm sticking to the claim that the ACER has the ultimate authority in that case. In fact, you're right. A senator says, you can refer the case to the joint EEA committee and discuss it there. But if the Joint EEA Committee finds out that she is going to go against the ACER decision, announces it to ACER, and the ACER will not accept it, it is ACER as the decision of the ACER Committee. And who says it? There are agents in the ACER. So there is a final result. About Belgium, I think it's a little strange. A senator may allow himself to argue that this does not defend what we are discussing here. I really can't answer that better than simply reading the European Union's own text, why they're going on lawsuits. It applies in particular to the fact that the Belgian national rule, Belgium's energy agency, has not been empowered to make binding decisions on electrical and gas projects, but can only offer proposals to the government. The same is true of the fact that European Union's electrical and gas systems, rather than the national rule, should be set up as the energy package assumes. In other words, on the European Union it is clear that the concept of the Belgian government that they should set the criteria for linking with the European electricity system is not acceptable because it is the national rule, Belgium's energy agency, representative of the ACER, which makes those decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u98	A respectable president. I'm not going to be inclined to cut off at the ultimate decision because the matter is simply so grown that it goes to the joint EES committee if ESAs do not get together, but not back into the ACER, not as I read this text. But I'm not going to go into any further trouble with it. Of course, in view of the Belgian case, it is quite true and quite different that it is found that the national rule, the Belgium's energy agency, if one wants to use that name, should have this authority to determine the conditions for the use of connections and nothing about new connections between countries. That's where I say the match doesn't apply. They're trying to make it look like that, in some way, the Belgian language is about comparable things and a decision to sea cable between Iceland and Europe. It really doesn't. The Belgian case is not about new cross-border connections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u99	Mr. President. I'll just have to read it again: requirements for linking with the European electricity and gas system are set up by the Belgian government. Unacceptable. The requirement for linking with the European electricity and gas system should be in the custody of the Belgian energy agency, the ACER branch. [[Up front.]] Connection requirements. This cannot be understood any other than that it is valid for connection conditions. In fact, we have an actual example that we can use to explain this further, and there is a sea cable between Cyprus and Greece through Crete. How was that assignment started? It was through the ACER. Investments collected funding for the operation, informed the ACER that they were ready, and what happens then? ACER took the ball and went on to observe that the government in Cyprus and Greece would not place any obstacles on the street of that project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u100	Mr. President. There are under three issues related to the third energy package, two bills and one synonym. First, the change in electricity laws, second, change in the laws and laws of Energy Institute, and ultimately change the interpretation of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. For practical reasons, discussions about these matters are made up, and I plan to discuss them in the form of material, together and separately. However, because of the nature of all these issues related to the subject under yesterday's discussion, of course, my discussion will be covered. Yesterday I reviewed my opinion that the legal guardians to whom the government groups intend to handle the case would be completely hopeless and will continue my discussion. It is important to bear in mind that these legal officers played a key role in the introduction of the case and, in particular, the elimination of all defenses within the parties of the administration. For this reason, Mr. President, it is important to discuss the value of these warnings, where they can be found, what material they are, in what form they appear to us, and at last, when this view is concluded, whether they have any value in national rights. Mr. President. By means of the implementation of directives derived from the joint EEA Commission, we lifted national warning, a warning we made in this case, and we accept the Senate resolution that was being discussed yesterday. What does that mean when we take them off national notice, Mr. President? In this way we will be committed to implementing all the rules of the third energy package, which in human language means that laws in our country need to be adjusted, changed, they need to be added, and they need to be added so that the energy package has been installed correctly. Icelandic law must not be in opposition to the rules contained in the box. This is very important to bear in mind, Mr. President, as we consider the national legal requirement. We are implementing a third energy package in the European Union, and at the same time this legal decision is for many to support it. There are belts, shoulder bands, and everything as humans have described strangely in the public assembly. That's why, Mr. President, I'm looking into it. All right. So we're going to introduce the third energy package with this approved but legally available. I'd been talking about five possible warnings last night. I had listed eleven, but I'm not gonna spend the duration of the council crossing them all, I'm just gonna take the one who's the most important. I come to the sixth, but they might be more inclined to explain and tip over a number of council members in spring and in summer when they sought to answer our inquiry about where the legal warning was to be found. The sixth and most likely point received was that the warning was found in the prospective regulations of a minister we have under control. She's unpublished. We've got her. This guide to Regulation is provided in Article 3. the contents of the Regulation and of the Council Regulation No. 713/2009 for national electrical connections would not be available in Iceland while this connection has not been established. That takes the approval of the Generals. This, of course, is the premeditated material. Everybody knows that. In between 1 and 2 pars. The Regulation is implemented. There is a text that indicates that the Regulation is implemented and contained in a package leaflet of Regulation. There's a lot of opinions here, if it seems that there's a search for the final legal warning. First of all, if the Regulation is against the European rules that we have adopted, it can be asked if the Minister of Ministers in Iceland has any special value. Pretty much. Obviously. We are enforcing the Council's directives of Article 1 and 2. This Regulation and it is included in the package leaflet. And 3rd. The same Council of Ministers gives this notice that certain regulations do not apply. In other words, we're intruding - but we're not going in. Wouldn't have been closer, Mr. President, to the text of Article 3. The Regulation would be directed directly to Icelandic law but not to the Minister's Regulation? In particular, considering that this seems to be a very important requirement for the case of members of the council, i.e. That there is the legal one to be found. In this Regulation, the energy package Regulation is introduced into Article 1 and 2. ... butinThirty. it is, in effect, that some of the unsolved regulations of the Council of Europe, which are being introduced into previous articles, are not actually introduced. Is that possible? Will the EFTA, ESA, not make serious comments on such induction, as shown by the hearings of Belgium, requiring that the Regulation be introduced, as we have promised, over. Monday? Another, Mr. President, I make serious comments about this route by the government. is subject to Regulation (U.S.A.) Secretary of the trade. It contains such full provision, with permission of the president: This document is supported at 45 C.E. August, No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes. This order already comes into effect.◯ This is the natural law contained in all regulations. They're going to put them on the roof. It is referred to the law itself as being supported by the Regulation. It is well known that regulations must be supported by law. I think they teach it only during the first semester of law. If you look back at 45th. Mr President, electronically, the warrant for the release of regulations, by permission of the President, is granted to the Ministers. What does it say? The secretary is authorized to set up more detailed regulations on the implementation of these regulations in the Regulation. Details of the implementation of this law in Regulation? What song? Electrical law? So many words, Mr. President. Is there sufficient improvement for Ministers to rely on the publication of Regulation, where the new nuclear energy system in the entire EEA area is introduced into Icelandic legislation? There a minister is authorized to set up more detailed regulations on the implementation of electronic energy law in the Regulation. The establishment of a organisation on the whole of the EEA has far-reaching sources and even greater sources than the government opinions themselves believe are in favor of the Constitution of the Icelandic republic. There is a law in Iceland so broad the information of a new monitoring agency in the whole area that there is a lot of doubt, truly remarkable doubt that there is the Constitution of the Icelandic Republic. In view of this, can we ask: Is it sufficiently corrected under the regulations of the Minister? Every man's answer. That's obvious. No. This is based on a weak foundation, I believe, a very weak foundation. Why isn't at least set adequate regulations in electronic laws so that the Minister's Regulation will be fully restored if, as seems to be planned, man would not want to impose this warning simply in law rather than in law? This scene, Mr President, is serious. It is serious if there is an open eye to implement a Regulation that is most likely to be incompetent. Has this leader of the Regulation, which I have already reasoned, most likely not sufficiently corrected, been of any value? Besides what I said about him not getting better. Do the officers I have described have some national value? No, of course not, Mr. President. This is indiscriminate, fully implementing a Regulation and yet not implementing it. The European rules are to be implemented in this way, but they are not to. Yet, the government intends to do so. No, Mr. President. The sounds of the legal warning have remained suspicious this summer. Might this be because, for some years, the followers of the matter have seen that the warnings, or warnings, that were actually essential to the approval of many members of the council, of course, have no national rights? Is that why the voices kept quiet this summer? It must also be remembered that the solution to the legal advance that the government made was inferior to the one used by the two well - called administrations of the government had proposed and had not received any publicity at all, nor did the scribes consider it to be flawless, which was so obvious. Thus, the government has not been able to explain to us or to others the value of the legal practitioner, if any, national rights. But also, Mr. President, the government has failed to explain to us, though most of the public in this country, why are we putting up with the rules they themselves say should not apply here. Why? They are forbidden to explain to the nation the need for the energy package's approval. Then I'm not talking about exposés in the spirit of juvenile political conferences. I'm talking about explanations that people understand and that the common people understand and accept. ▪ Because only ◯ is the primary answer. Social security categories, i.e. the classifications and the administrative body, has been reported to indicate that nothing new was involved. Let me give you a few examples. First, it has been found that the legal watchmen do not observe. There's a search for someone who comes up here and claims they're keeping national rights. Second, the Treaty against Belgium shows us in black, that unless we correctly produce the energy package, we are in danger of getting such a problem. We're doing it with our eyes open. Third, the fourth energy package, called the winter package, has arrived. He must have appeared. He's completely ignorant of this matter. Fourth: In newspaper articles and elsewhere, some diplomats have declared that national regulations were best set in place when it comes to laying a sea cable. Those nice ones. Therefore, members of Congress can hardly agree, I suppose, as it seems now. I do not believe that men who speak in such a way that they think it is best to add a national law to the matter if this is not the case. Hardly. Fifth, please. As I have pointed out in this speech, and in many places it has been reported, it is most likely not enough to improve. Then I'm talking about 45. g. Electrical layer. All five points and some other speakers have mentioned are new. And then they say there's nothing new here. I think it's crazy. This is crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u101	Mr. President. I'd like to try to cover the wide range of discussions that have taken place today and at the meetings that were put under the entire energy package before the spring council was postponed. The fact is, of course, that the issues discussed here in particular today are so closely related to the Senate resolution that was discussed yesterday. All of this talk that has been significant is open to anyone who looks at these matters with a reasonable view that things are being done in the wrong order. The lack of energy policy - men are proud to be working it at the Ministry of Industrial Affairs - at the same time as we're going to launch a package that's not an offer and should be alone enough to take this whole package together, put it on a shelf, finished energy policy for Iceland, and then approached it again with a fixed land beneath its feet. We're missing even. into this discussion of our film analysis: What then? Because we must approach the subject in our discussion, in the sense that at some point a cable will be laid. The situation is that if we get a sea cable, we will be in a position where Iceland's people will be everywhere but they will shout, especially during yesterday, indicate that they were trying to say that this would have no effect, and we wouldn't have to worry about it, we would have it all on our own. That situation just changes. Our government on energy markets will be in a very different way after a cable has been laid than it is today. That's why I wanted to say that it's a crazy arrangement, a crazy chronological order of things, to be taking care of this situation now before we've agreed on energy policies for the country. Once you've been introduced, you've already been brought in. It's just that way. It looks very strange when one of the senators comes up after another, speaks of fully implementing the package in a way that will bring happiness to the European Union and then directly plan to turn around and work against the goals of the third energy package. Of course, this is not credible, and as I spoke in my speech yesterday, the present government must accept the challenge. It's their interest to drive this third energy package through. It turns out that the government of Independence Company, forward squad, and left green wants us to join the third energy package. Then it doesn't matter what has been done in the early stages, for the head of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, said in a speech yesterday - and I just can't thank him for that honesty, and there was no confusion in that subject - that one reason to activate 102. The report back to the EEA joint committee would be that there had been elections that would have led to a different council than would have been present in early stages of work during the induction process. There was no trouble with it. If present - day government groups viewed this as a matter of wisdom to avoid it, it was obvious that at least in a series of independents, it would not be a problem for any of us to make use of 102. - if their opinion was that this case wasn't good. It will only be good and honest to believe that the Independence Party remains in the possession of the EU's third energy package. This came as a surprise, considering the manner in which words were spoken. Foreign minister, in particular, had been in spring and then again yesterday. But it's good to have it out, and the Independence Party responded. It has been tried to highlight the interests of a European country, an Icelandic home, by bringing in this third pack of energy called. It has been pointed out quite well that people's concern is that energy prices are likely - a common account for the energy consumption and transport of energy at the end - raise especially after the sea cable has been laid. That's even. what has been very irritating to the people of this country is that they have been completely unattracted to discuss the situation in Iceland. There has been absolutely no need for the discussion, and there are no scrawls to simplify the evaluation of the situation. In terms of cost increase, only monitoring costs will rise. I remember it was a whisker. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, which I see in the side hall right now, which came into the discussion earlier today that there was a significant delay in the operation of the Power Institute. There is a 2-fold increase in pons, either working up the current angle and then due to the expense of the Agency's funding or an increase in the scope of the monitoring role of the institution. It's got to be there. A great deal has been said, especially by the chairman of the European State Department of the European ÁslaugArna the Sigurbjörnsdóttir daughter, a prowess of the Independence Party, that there is a great profit for the public to be able to change the power trades. It's been slow for a long time. I don't trust myself to specify a year when that warrant was opened, I just can't remember. But it's been slow for years, and it's got nothing to do with this induction here today, nothing. A military surveillance report has been made. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir, a member of the Independence Party, said that the public would enjoy a great deal of the control of the Power Institute. The course of the Independence Party fell well. I was surprised. I just didn't know that the Agency's surveillance was a problem on the market. I've heard from an amazing number of sources that many people view the surveillance industry as a problem in Icelandic society as an increase and a steady increase in costs, but I've never heard of the fact that the energy agency's surveillance has been a special problem in these substances. But it will be time to determine whether any of these costs will be very profitable for Icelandic households. I don't think so, so that's an understatement. But then it is vital for us to ask the question: And then what? Now we're heading for - if everything is going on in the way that the executives described today and yesterday, that there will be no gap between the approved and the induction of this energy package - that it will be approved here on Monday afternoon and fully introduced. Then all I can say is that I hope that my company and I are wrong about us and government officials just in terms of the so - called advance. But I don't think it's gonna be the other way around. But then what? I'll ask you again. There is no complete analysis of what will take place, how the country will be connected to Iceland, to be placed here by sea cable. That's what I would have thought was the least of it for us senators to have a place to understand. Then there is another. It's a pack of four that has now been taken care of by the Minister's Council. Of course, when there is no rush, it has been said here many times that people have been preparing it since 2009. Wait, it can't make much difference if you take off the case a little longer; but not having a thought - provoking, deep - seated view of what is now presented in this fourth energy package is a process and a process that you can't help but criticize. One of the main reasons to accept a three-part energy package for many members of the Parliament is that we have agreed on an energy package one and two. It turns out that when a pack of four comes on the assembly, one of the main reasons to accept it is that we have approved a pack of three. They see every man. Too bad everyone will have forgotten these comments when it's time to log a pack of four in the future. In dealing with the European Union and the European Council agencies, we must allow ourselves to say what most people think, which is making fear. The European Union has one way or another a policy is to go further in its coordination and coordination. This has been called the samurai method, cutting a small section of each nation's sovereignty at a time so that no one would be in a bad way. In the end, there will be no turning back when a number of slices have been cut off from the sovereignty that humans are about fully involved in the relationship and coordination. [[Proposed in:]] Bbifit is called here from the side room, yes, it's not working without a fight. But it's moving now. I wouldn't be surprised if Mrs. Merkel was writing a new deal while talking about the energy package. The European Union's appeal to governance in the Member States and then the countries that are in cooperation with the European Union through the EEA Convention: there is no end of it and we must resist. If we don't use the sources written in the EEA contract right now, why on earth would the European Union think we were going to use them some other time? It's just as if there were a section of signs on whether 26. Iceland's constitution would have real value. She had never been new until it came to that position in connection with the so - called media law that the president denied the law. Since then, this has happened repeatedly. But at some point most of the rules are applied and there was no reason except to use 102. gr. The EEA contract now. The government's decision not to do so is now, and I think it is an empty matter to speak about compromising that view. But it was certainly interesting yesterday to realize that the decision could easily have been realized if the government groups thought that this case wasn't theirs, if they didn't fully agree, if they didn't believe in it. And it's good to be in the way. Finally, I want to say in connection with all of this that we do not always see an effect. That's what I may be most concerned about in this matter. I can honestly say that I hope so fervently that those in charge who have spoken here were right, and we in the Central Party have been misreading the situation, that the risks and risks are not the way we consider them. I just hope I'm wrong. But I'm afraid not. And the situation is, of course, that not all of us see an effect. Who would have, for example? Twenty - five years ago it occurred in the mind that a major part of the EEA's policies would now be growing in Iceland to the point where nothing could be done. An entire banking system, with the resulting crisis and consequences, collapsed. No one would have thought to agree that such gloomy predictions could be the case. They would have said, naturally: The freedom of the 4th is not about this. The four freedoms do not allow banks to grow into 12 times the national product. There's nothing to do with the freedom of the four. But in reality, that is just what happens. Here the banking system grew far above our heads, with consequences that all of us know from the time it lost its feet and collapsed. There are these unpredictable things that I find to be euphoric, so that a mild word is spoken of, that no member of the proselytism, forwarding party, or group of left greens - I am not dragging the four parties into the stand, so it was expecting that they would be pleased with the matter, but that no member of the states would see a reason why anyone was warning himself in these matters, it makes me uncomfortable. Toward the end of my talk, we need to consider the dangers involved. I think they've been very untraced, and I just reiterate: I hope that our middle-class concerns aren't well-founded. I hope the members of the government are right about this, that there's no risk in any of this. Then I just remind me of this 25 - year - old example of the banking system that then collapsed on the basis of the rules that no one saw to be able to do that when we were under the rules. There was a lot of warning in this discussion, but it was all blown up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u102	President. I'd like to ask in view of what is available and we're making a decision. The third energy package was discussed yesterday, and now we're discussing whether the Power Institute is to be independent, its bill of contents, as is one Parliamentary proposal and bill that has made an advance of not placing any sea cables except with the approval of the General Assembly. This means that before a cable was laid, the Council would need a Senate hearing, as was made clear in the Supreme Court. Minister, to agree with what means that there will be a chance again, just as the Central Party used a filancy in spring for a contingency of the third pack of energy, to do so if it is to be put on a sea cable. In fact, the Friðrik Furksson Friðsson Hirst and Stefán Stefánsson say that their prognostication is not really considered until the sea cable is laid so that if we agree on the two issues that are being agreed on, it is not to be agreed with the Constitution until a decision on the sea cable is made, and that decision will be made with the approval of the Alliedis if we agree with the two extra issues that follow. I want it from the senator. I talked to you. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun the son of Isun, a fellow soldier of Bergþór the son of Ólason before. He said: "They don't do anything bad. He's saying they don't do enough, but they don't do anything bad and may even put this warning in order to keep our defense up. We have now agreed by the Central Party Congress that this case will be closed, that the third energy package will be complete. They've signed an agreement that means the power is now in president's office to finish the case. The media cannot continue to promote language in these conclusions, they already negotiated that authority. But by agreeing with the two issues we're discussing this warning against the cable, that he needs the approval of the Alliedis, he's moving the line of defense. Does the senator understand it this way, and does he agree to accept this notice and to be good in himself even though he is not sufficient in his opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u103	Mr. President. I think I've reached the point of the question, but I think that's why. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson misread my concerns. I wrote about this article that appeared in the Morning Press last week, if I recall correctly, rather than in the past. My concern is in a violation of contract agreement, not really the Constitution, the part that was. A senator spoke in his opponent. My concern is that on the basis of the four freedom laws, a violation of treaties will be made against us if, as it turns out, we are going to agree to the matter and bring in, but in reality, we are going to isolate ourselves into it, as it were, to work against the aims of the introduction from the European Union. I don't think there's any harm in what's under today -- I mean, from the notice part. But I'm afraid he doesn't have the weight that the government groups think is real, and we'll be exposed when we do. I think I put it this way in the article that when it comes time for the council to take sides on the sea cables, we want a cable, or do we want damages? I tried to reason on that subject. I hope that answers the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u104	President. That's exactly what we came to, i.e. into the future. Now you're talking about the fourth energy package and the fifth energy package coming, etc. and will continue the induction process, through a joint electrical market in Europe. If there were a cable, then we would be part of it. There is work that makes a lot of defense against the things people are afraid of. But, hey. A senator is most afraid of, sounds me, this deal's broken. There's one thing. Another is that some people are afraid that somehow this may be the sale of our resources, that we will be forced to engage more, that no one can stop. Then you've got nature protection. That's exactly what work is going on. At times, a senator has stepped in instead of what he was doing. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson to review the Constitution. He showed up at a meeting. It ensures protection in the Constitution of nature, guarantees our control over our natural resources and is to be assured that if there is a power agency in some kind of international community, the nation will have to agree with the binding national law that this is to be done. Doesn't he think all of this is a good thing? [[The president calls.]] And I add: With the nation's being able to bring all the cases to their national agreements and stop them if there's a national desire?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u105	Mr. President. I'm a great conservative in the affairs of the Constitution, so I'm completely honest about it. Of course, much work and a good desire were involved in the work being done in the management board at the time, some ten years ago. But I do feel that way, like my partner had. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, member of the Central Party, wrote this morning that the change in constitution should be very slow, well thought-in, and the other side in great agreement. The album that came out of the work of a board of directors, if I recall correctly, 110 or 120 constitutions... [[Up front.]] I have not been interested that it will be the main basis of that review. But the four defenders are as dark as a dog. A senator came in earlier - this was later an answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've got to take this down the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u106	President. I must commend myself. A senator for the fact that during a 14 - minute talk, he was able to sum up everything he said in the middle of the night in spring and up until summer, which tells us that quantity is not always the same as quality. [[Up front.]] I'm gonna keep this very simple, because I don't want to be involved in any of the similes that have been involved in this case, where facts are drawn and strutted, a ground of debate, somewhere imagined, and there they pretend to be working logic. It's not a political bitch I like. This is to no man's good, neither does it look good to anyone. I have a few simple questions. That's what I'm talking about. A senator objecting that the role of the Energy Agency in consumer protection and monitoring sales and markets will be increased? Question two. A senator who objects that the European Union's electrical power system will not be attacked by another country's electrical system through a cable unless its approval by the Generals? The third question is why. A senator objects that the linking of the nation's electrical energy systems to other countries through cables will depend on the government's policy on the building of electricity systems? [[Up front.]] These are the three points that are being discussed today. You must know this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u107	But I didn't catch the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u108	A respectable president. I've never been through this before. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé gonna have to forgive me not to answer my first question because I didn't catch it, and he didn't want to tell me what it was wearing. [[Up front.]] The senators in the hall are welcome to shoot at me if they catch the first question. - Yes, she's reminded me now, it's about increasing the surveillance of the Power Institute. It is my opinion in general that I should be careful to increase the surveillance program in the system no matter where, whether at Power Institute or wherever, in government relations with company or home. The surveillance system is all too demanding in the society in which we live, so that without my trust, it is clear to my mind that we have a responsibility to be careful to increase the costs of monitoring equipment for households and companies in this country. That was the first question, and I'm sorry I took so long to find out. My head is in no better shape than this right now. Number two were the questions that involved the country's link to Europe's electrical system by means of a floating cable. I have to admit that I don't think my speeches have been blurred that I believe all the odds are that in the future there will be a connection. This connection will reach some point. I'm going to let myself hope, Mr. President, because later an answer remains, to what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé reiterates the question, or at least does not add many people to it, so I can complete the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u109	President. I don't think there's much more to describe the discussion than trouble. To find out what I was asking, and then to answer. I was simply reading up and asking about exactly the three issues that are on the program today, in this speech, in answer to that question. I would've thought what. A senator who puts himself in a good light knew what subjects were under discussion today. Let me rephrase the questions. These aren't new questions, are they? Senator, don't worry: much. A senator votes with or against the linking of the nation's electrical energy system to another country's electricity system through a series of cables, according to the government's policy on the structure of electricity transport systems? Will he do the same for the lack of an electrical power system in the country's hands with another country through a sea cable unless it's agreed by Generalis? Then there was the question of the growth of the Power Institute, as a matter of course. In fact, a senator answered. I'm asking about the senator's position on the issues that are being discussed right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u110	A respectable president. First of all, I do not have any conviction that the present environment calls for a large supply of the energy agency to monitor the role of this institution. Second, by reason of reason of reason, it is boringly arrogant. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otto's son Proppér, to come up here and demand that men explain in what way the votes fall on Monday. But to finish the answer I had started earlier, I suppose Iceland will be connected at some point. In this regard, we should look for all possible ways to get it on our terms rather than on the grounds that the European Union's common energy policy brings upon us at the time of that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u111	Mr. President. I disagree. A senator says that four freedoms of home may be due to a refusal of connections between countries or homes in order to force such connections. Now it happened to us on the Bjarni Már Magnússon State Department, professor of ocean rights, etc., and traced it to the way the ocean's rights deal -- I tried that question to the second. A senator but who made little progress - ensures that a state will always have unfavoured authority over the weekend when it comes to the linework and so on. Then I ask: How can a European Court, even though he is a diplomat or an alliance, override this right and create an obligation to harm a state that is controlling this right and to work in harmony with it and thus has denied such law? It's simple. On the contrary, the Treaty of Transitions is being suggested that this sea - right agreement is not valid. Bjarni was very clear that this is absolutely so that the marine covenant precludes line law, as long as a council or a member does not allow it. How, then, can harm be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson counter. In the first place, it's just that not everyone agrees with Professor Bjarni Már. I was so unfortunate that I was going to call me on the phone a nice space that one of the skeptics on the Bjarni's perspective, which was when I was out of power. It's the energy policy in my day that's missing. To answer that question first, we simply do not all agree on this position regarding Bjarni marine Treaty and whether to proceed further in the legal order of the European Union. That is why we believe that there is a real danger that treaties that will be brought to the United States. Let's look at the interests underlying on sea cables that are present and compare them with the figures that have come out of damages in dealing with treaties, just for example, in connection with the unfrost meat that is close to: If I remember correctly, it was 3 billion. I don't have the numbers straight, but there was a serious number involved in the raw meat. No one needs to think that if our situation is weak, we will be covered with some small amount of money. I think we must at least keep our eyes open to this risk. Because if we're going to succeed in these things, which I'm afraid will lead to a decision on Monday, we're going to have a much worse stand than the third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u113	Mr. President. Anyone disagree? Yes, that may well be so. But now the Vienna Treaty is relatively clear, and the right conditions are clear, and it is a general rule that these large covenants, as though they were covenants on business or energy transport or otherwise not to top it. So I'm going to see the lawyer who's going to argue that it's not like Bjarni Már. I would like to point out that this inner market of Europe is not about selling energy that is not available so that it can be forced forward; it is also not about forced lines. Both the EEA Treaty contains perfectly normal terms for our control over these objects, and the European Union has also failed to employ such pressure against other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u114	A respectable president. I'm here for the first time with a computer in a box, but that's because I found what I was going to do in the first storm. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read a brief column of chrysars that are opposed to Professor Bjarni Már Magnússon's viewpoints. Some basics. First of all: The EEA Treaty goes beyond the general national rights agreements. Therefore, it is important to keep in mind that the White House or other international organisations will not resolve problems due to Iceland's commitments to the EEA Convention, but to EU institutions. Second: The rules of national rights are not relevant in the field of European rights, which is unique. This is well - known and has been clearly called upon during the European Court of Justice. Third: It is important to stress that it will not be the Ha Report Court or such international organisations that will resolve differences due to the EEA contract commitments of the Icelanders, but the EU and all lawyers should know how the fusion process has been controlled and in the light of the objectives and purposes of the agreements and types involved in that court. There, the European Court has not left its mark but, rather, stepped down the course using κacons (U.S.A.) methodology. That's exactly what these viewpoints are. [[The president calls.]] These are the words of District Attorney Arnar Þór Jónsson. You can shake your head over the fact that Arnar Þór Jónsson was mentioned, and I'm sorry, but I felt that this was no worse than the one Bjarni Már stated about the sea covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u115	Mr. President. First, I want to review the committee's opinion in case of No. 782. The latter opinion of the majority of the part by changing the bill to correct the conversion of electricity law and energy law. It states: With a 6. The bill is provided with increases in monitoring costs. For the Committee, there was a view that there was a marked rise. What I find to be reprehensible to the majority committee opinion, Mr. President, is that the degree of increase is not stated. In this regard, consider the minority opinion signed by Ísleifsson Isleususfsson and by Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. It says that there is a 45% increase in the current supply of the Power Institute due to electrical monitoring. Another is that there is no evidence to support or demonstrate the need for such increases in energy monitoring costs. I have to say, Mr. President, it's a good thing not to argue why the pay needs to be raised by 45%. The law also includes paying people, i.e. The energy companies, allowing them to drop these costs on consumers, allowing this to go directly into the prices and increase electricity prices to their homes and businesses. Those who claim that a three - pack energy package does not include an increase in electricity prices have not read it well enough, and they do not study the matter well enough because it is crystal clear that this increase will go directly into the prices. You also ask yourself in this context: " Why do these checks need to be added? Is there anything bad in today's project that requires increasing the surveillance in this way? Do we not have relatively low electricity prices in this country compared with other countries, and are we not privileged to live in this country to enjoy low electricity prices? In this regard there seems to be a need for increased monitoring, but there is no evidence to support why and why the increase is so intense. It's very interesting to consider in this context the HS Power comments on the subject. It states on page 19. 3, with President's permission: With a 6. The bill of changing electricity laws and the Power Institute laws [...] is further proposed to a 45% increase in energy monitoring costs. As soon as it is recognized, official costs for monitoring by electronic law, as well as by other laws, HD Energy is entitled to point out that the increase is considerable and expect to be protected by electricity and will ultimately affect users of electricity, both homes and businesses. So says the review of HS Power. Here it is made clear from one large power company that this increase is going directly into the prices and is promoting electrical prices for citizens and companies in the country. Once again, Mr President, those who have claimed that there is no rise in the power supply package see the opposite here in black and white. Next, I want to move on to one thing that I think is necessary because I listened to a talk at the highest level. Yesterday the prime minister, who could not cope with her, said that nothing new had happened since spring. I'd like to say, first of all, that there was a new thing here yesterday and that brought quite a bit of attention, to my knowledge, in the case of the highest degree. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson. He said that this is a way to refer the case to the joint EEA committee, but he didn't think it was necessary. That's where the top grips. Secretary of finance up to the highest. Secretary of State who has given strong warning against taking the case to the joint EEA Commission, it can upset the EEA Treaty, etc. V.E.G. The minister of finance, however, feels that this route is good, but he does not feel that it is needed. It's very strange in such a big matter as this to the highest degree. A minister should not feel the need for that. However, it is new and vital to communicate. I also wanted to respond to a talk at the highest. Prime Minister last night. She's the head of a party that's been fighting for community ownership of the national energy resources. She is the chairman of a party that has strongly rejected the privatization of society's infrastructure, totally rejected the fact that market and market solutions are responsible for the distribution of basic services. One common energy market, a private company handles energy companies and distributions of energy, supply and demand decides prices to consumers, all the intervention of the government is banned, and most important, the principle is to remove obstacles for new activations if energy is identified as renewable. And the like is about the force of water, earthwater, and wind. This is all that is contained in the EU's energy panels and is exactly the opposite of policy and vision of the left green, as they voted against a energy package one and two. But for some reasons not observed, they now support a pack of three energy. There is good reason for senators left green to answer why they now support a pack of three energy but against a energy package of one and two from the European Union. I would also like to include only a point of opinion presented by High Court Justice Tómas Jónsson when he met with the State Department. By permission of the President: A memo published by Tómas to the committee shows that the European Court (ECJ) consistently uses so - called object explanations in interpretation of the laws and regulations of the Union, i.e. Looking to the purpose of the law, he points to his case in support of a judgment example. Thus, in the 1960's, the European Court ruled that the law of the Union was greater than the law of the Member States, although none was found in the Roman covenant, the establishment of the European Union. The Court simply concluded that the European Union would not function unless such rules were set. When I'm at the highest. Prime Minister stresss the use of resource regulations that can prevent ordering, now Icelanders are once members of the EEA agreement and have committed themselves to staging it alone. The head of the left green is being paid for the transfer of the nation's government and organization and what we do with its energy to Brussels by submitting to the energy package, and we need to do what comes out of it. It will probably interfere with improving the quality of life of the public in this country because if the cable is laid, there is a high probability that electrical prices will increase, it has been demonstrated. These are factors that are quite surprising that, in view of the fact that they were against the case at the beginning, the left movement should follow up, especially in view of the fact that, as I said before. It is also perturbing to look at a memo I found from the European Union as a result of the induction of the third energy package. This memo contains questions and answers from March 2011. There's a point that's important to come out and have been mentioned here, but here we see it all black on white, straight from the European Union. It's, for example. asked this question: "What is new in the third energy package? " And the answer to that is: ▪ The efficient separation of energy production and the promoting of electrical distribution systems. Then we will discuss the increase in consumer protection and the establishment of an independent surveillance agency, which is the ACER. I've been staying a bit of this increased consumer protection because I believe it was a sort of yellow root to accept an energy package one and two at its time, a promise that has not since passed. And who's against consumer protection? That is why it was accepted at the time. It was said that this would result in the reduction of electrical prices, the exchange of electricity dealers, etc. What is it? It's because it's virtually no use changing power dealers. I heard one fine example for a moment. It was a woman who planned to change the energy trade for her home, and the benefits were an entire 38 k. per month. That was the biggest thing she could do to lower her electricity bill. We see, therefore, that this has not been the case. In effect, as it was suggested at the time, people were deceived into becoming so much benefit to consumers. It was just not and it's not today. Then there is one question in this memo from the European Union that reads: ◯ Why does the third party need to be monitored by the diffusers? This is the answer from the European Union: To ensure efficient competition, operators must allow all electrical and/or gas donors - Icelands are free of the gas - ◯ access to the transport system without discrimination in order to care for their clients. This is the principle of third party access to distribution systems.◯ This means paying taxpayers to access the system for private clients, and it will, of course, go into the prices, according to the surveillance fee I mentioned earlier. Mr. President. It is certainly true that Regulation No. 714/2009 on international integration, while no sea cable is yet in Iceland, is of no practical significance. But what's being done now and what the government is planning and driving through the council, the government groups and the Union and the Pirates, and the whole mind is being promoted - excuse me, there may be one member of Porita who is opposed, and that's good and good - the introduction of ideologies. It's the ideologies that are being introduced. It is the aims and tools that depend on one common and linked energy market in the EEA. This is what really matters. It is necessary to answer certain fundamental questions that have not been answered. One of them is e.g. Whether it is a reason to change the successful model we have built for 60 years where the efficiency of energy resources is based on the cycle of valuables from major users to his employees, to secondary jobs, etc. We want to stop being competitive in the form of a lower energy prices because of the high electricity production for growing articles such as agriculture and data plant, energy-rich food industry, etc.? Do we want to contribute to the potential reduction in gardening prayers? Do we want to change this model that has been good for us, so from now on most of the energy production goes through a few companies, creating very few secondary jobs because of the use of national energy resources? Do we want significantly fewer people to enjoy improved and better biographies using the use of Iceland's energy resources than we have in the past 60 years? We have nothing in common with this large electricity market in Europe. We have enjoyed the privilege, as mentioned earlier, of living in a country where electrical prices are relatively low. We've seen that the input of a energy package alone and two has not been successful. Electric prices have gone up. Necessary protection is a form of premium because it has not made it possible to reduce the power balance by changing energy sales. It doesn't answer the cost. It has to be said at the moment that it's pretty strange why the government groups will have a way of driving this case through when we have the way of directing the case to the Joint EEA Committee and getting an exception from this. It is for the best. It is my firm belief that it is for the best. The government has been working very hard, as I mentioned here, to convince us that a pack of energy is not important because an ocean cable has not been laid between Iceland and continent of Europe. But the government has not mentioned why we should pick up a pack of three. What are the benefits of Iceland's implementation of these European rules of energy? We have not yet received the answer. Hence, it is vital that the government clarify matters better, tell those who have serious doubts, and oppose the issue of why this course should take place. It's been suggested that the EEA deal is upset. It is especially a foreign minister who has promoted it. But it's coming to the top. Secretary of finance, saying that this is a perfectly good way to handle the case for the joint EEA committee, but he doesn't think that there's any reason that's rather strange. You're asking yourself what kind of government tour is in this case. Iceland is an independent nation in a harsh country and should not allow European officials to determine how we use our important electronic resource and use it. The 3rd energy package will be reduced to votes at the General Assembly. It will take place on September 2nd. [[The president calls.]] Then it turns out, Mr. President, which members of Congress are on the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u116	President. I'd like to take a fresh approach to the questions I've been asking about raising the country's natural nature, natural resources, and our oversight of the government's affairs, the people's means of doing such things, and the source of the nation's resources to all matters where it feels that politicians are contrary to their will. All of this is available before the end of this terms, to introduce it into a constitution, a project set up by Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It is in the government covenant, and Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, president of the Central Party, is for the Central Party of that work. I've been asking because there's defence. Now, the Central Party has signed that the third energy package will be complete and that the language rights will be suspended and the case will be completed on September 2. Like what? paritaprevir On the other hand, Þórarinsson's dwellers mention further defenses before the end of the season. The fourth and fifth energy package comes, so we need to enter the Constitution for the protection of natural resources and such. I'm going to take this to a religious man, so we'll spice it up, right there. The senator is a believer, if I understand correctly, a Christian from the old and new Scriptures. There, the God of Israel's people, or mankind, hides custody of nature and natural resources, some of which are forbidden and must be handled well and used. Am I right? As a result, it must not be destroyed and must be kept for future generations and such. Nature protection seems to be relatively strong inside, and that is exactly what is being offered in the Treaty and the work group involved in the change in constitution. I'd like to ask the senator if he approves that such a law will be placed in a constitution on the other hand and on the other hand, that natural resources are on the custody of Iceland, including activation rights. [[The president calls.]] It's also available before the end of the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator with such a deep and good inquiry, which, as a matter of fact, lies. that theology, which is a special interest in me, is just right. Senator. In theology, there is something called theology, i.e. that man is really the custodian of nature, so in that sense we should treat nature like a dog. A senator rightly mentioned, using natural resources wisely, for the benefit of man. What I'm worried about in this case, and I find it odd that a government company like the left green should have no more concern about it, it is that the matter will begin to become the growing nation's activation initiative to increase the production of energy which is then expected to be sold out of the country, if and when a sea cable comes. I think it's safe to say that the cable comes, that's just a question of when. Then I believe that the cable, if it comes, should be for our own sake. We are not to be subject to this rule because it takes custody away from being able to sort out sea cables, what is common to our will, and with our emphasis. You can say that, boy. A senator, that there is a need to ensure in some way that we do not abuse our natural resources. [[The president calls.]] I really support it, and then I'm just trying to figure out how it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u118	President. I was a little scared of this in the beginning. I'm not so afraid of it right now. I see that there are still long - standing dangers after going deep into this, but there are not many and vast. On the other hand, I will vote against the energy package because there is still some doubt about the constitution, although the Fried Year Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson say they are not there until an orb is authorized and two of these cases say that it must be approved at the General Assembly that the string is authorized again, which means that it would be available if men are going to park the cable. In time, it is not until a sea cable is laid down that the reality that one sees will become more activated. But now, until the end of the season, we have an opportunity in a group of prime ministers who are based on all the prior constitutions and who are based particularly on the bill of the Board of Governments, decided by the nation in the national arrangement that a new constitution should be based on. It's not being taken all up, but it's a question of whether it's a complete reexamination. There is a relatively great disagreement. However, there are a number of laws being taken, there are four laws that are touching this package of energy, or at least the terrors that people feel over the energy package, which may include: Nature protection. It is to be placed in a constitution and placed in a constitution and used by the natural resources, including Implementation rights, they're listed, if in a constitution, all the activation rights and natural resources that are not privateised today, which is a huge part of Iceland's natural resources in falling water and such - they wouldn't have to be private. Then we can't have privacy. That's what's available, no matter how hard it is with a board of directors. This is just a matter of taking very reasonable measures, and it is now being accomplished, and that is in the government covenant. It's an invitation to do so now. Is a senator interested in studying this subject and taking a objective view of the unique issues of environmental protection and how it is handled? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, and I express great satisfaction by doing so. A senator will vote for the induction of a three-piece energy package. I apologize for saying that all Porta's members were on the case. That's not right. I'd like to commend myself. A senator for that. Of course, I support an interpolitian solidarity in the Constitution, and I will review it when it comes to the conclusion that all the heads of the classes reach some sort of conclusion there. But that is the best, and, of course, I will learn it when it comes to it. The bottom line is this: All doubts and uncertainty can be avoided and such by simply rejecting the case here and now, referring it to the common EEA committee and receiving an exception. Then there is uncertainty about the constitution and the events ahead of the case, backwards and away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u120	You've already signed that, so it's not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u121	I say, the case should be referred to the joint EEA committee, rejected this induction and received an exception. Then, in the end, the problem has been solved for the uncertainty that's going to hang over us, that's for sure, which could cause us to pay high-priority damages, etc. There's a lot of uncertainty ahead that the government's putting into this case. This makes one very strange because the candidates have concluded that there is to be an exception to this, the root of the Agency's grass. There is great dissatisfaction among the independents, and about 70% of the nation is opposed. Yet it's being run through. What are the governments afraid of?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u122	Would you like to put this in a national bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u123	I'm just saying, what? Senator: It's perfectly normal to reject this matter right here and now, we don't have to take it to a national law, just turn it down. We know that the nation is opposed, the majority of the government's supporters. [[The president calls.]] It's the simplest and fastest way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's a lot of things I can do. A senator disagrees on this matter, probably when I disagree with everything that was presented in his case. But what I'm staying for is this: It has been claimed in this discussion that the electricity prices to the households will be increased by the third energy package. It has also been called on what is in the third energy package that should increase electricity prices to homes in the judgment of critics, such as the Central Class. Here we seem to have put our hands on it. Well, it's the check account that's due. In fact, you should be aware that monitoring is designed to increase consumer protection and to promote a more competitive market in an electrical market, which I think I am and therefore. A senator can agree that there must be benefits to consumers, that competition, which is created just because of the first and second energy package, is most efficient at the market here as elsewhere for consumers to gain the most affordable value. When you put this into context, I wondered, " The check account here is 0.1% of the average price per kilogram. ' The change in this monitoring fee is 0.1% of what we pay for our kilowatts, one tenth of a percent. But the price difference between the highest and lowest bidders on the market today is 10%. This was not to be distributed a few years ago where there was no competition, selling more and less at the same price. So I ask. Councilmen: Isn't there more benefit in getting a 10% reduction in the power price - and now I'm not underestimated that increasing and intensive monitoring may lead to more competitive market competition - than having the possibility of paying 0.1% higher for the monitoring involved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator asks if there is no benefit in getting a 10% reduction in electrical prices by changing energy sales. I would have liked to know which energy dealer has got. A senator is talking about who could give you a 10% discount on the energy bill because I haven't found it. Nevertheless, we need to be aware in this context that when a energy package was introduced, it cost that the economy was divided into energy production and distribution. That, on its own, increased the power balance by 10%. This gain is gone, then. A senator you mentioned to be accomplished by changing energy sales, 10%. I mentioned an example earlier in which an individual requested to do business with another energy company and was trying to cut down the energy bill, and the discount was 38 k. every month, 452K. every year. I've had this experience myself. I used to swallow my home with electricity. I've tried to change the energy trades, and the benefits are almost zero. Certainly I understand that those senators who accepted this at the outset, on the grounds that this was a consumer protection and could be replaced by a power dealer, may have supported the matter on that basis. But it just didn't work out. And you can see today. Hv. A senator also asks: "Where are the increases we see in a pack of three energy? Yes, that's the check fee. We do not know exactly what it will do to increase the power bill in the public, but it will lead to an increase in it. This is a 45% increase, which is a significant increase. We'll see in the opinion of an HS Ennis team that this will go right into the prices. Then there's another thing about a pack of three energy that for the private companies who are going to go into energy, they have to make sure that they get on the Internet and pay for it gets on the taxpayers. [[The president calls.]] I guess that means it ends with consumers, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u126	Mr. President. Of course, now I can't read from experience at any time. A senator's change of electrical power. I'm not gonna stand here and advertise who's the lowest bidders and who's the highest bidders on this market. But it is a fine web, an aurbourbourg, that keeps them out of the country. and I changed the power trade myself, and it's just wrong. At least that $1,100 will be there. a decrease in my power account, some imagination in me. It's still standing there on a monthly bill I get, a 10% decrease in electrical prices. I'm fine with that, and I see no better than the power dealer I used to trade also reduced prices from a year ago when the competition evidently became more active. So there's competition here, like everywhere else. As a matter of fact, I know there's a pack. A senator does not like competition in many areas of society and perhaps a disbeliever, but I personally do. But only the fact is, everywhere we compare the development of goodsmen, we see that competition is driving down. That's what's happening on this market like everyone else. I have no faith in anything but that this will, in fact, provide increased authority guilty for possible violations of consumer rights in this context, will put an increase in the pressure of the electricity companies that have been in a lot of cooling space. It has taken a long time to change it, but it has obviously worked and is increasing the competitive pressure on this market through the changes that have been followed by the energy bags. And I'm convinced that the third one will help us there. To keep it in mind: There is no question what elevations are being spoken of here. It's half a penny that the check fee's about to go up. [[The president calls.]] If it fully breaks into the prices, it is 0.1% to a maximum that may resist the potential reductions that will remain in the electrical value due to competitiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I guess I know why. There's no answer for a senator. But you wonder: " Was this system a bad experience before? I know what you're doing. A member of the council that these companies have been doing some kind of business practices that are bad and that requires careful monitoring? I don't know what it's like. We have a very low electrical price compared to Europe, but it has certainly increased. You can even say that. traces to the induction of energy package one and two. I don't quite see and I haven't heard that this company was going to be breaking up in these areas. But I say, the media, of course, supports all competition. We'll do it without hesitation. Hv. A senator says he has managed to reduce his electricity account by 10%. But he completely forgets that when a energy pack was introduced, electricity quickly increased by 10%. Well, then you've missed the shrink you caught in there. Besides, it has an elevated power range of 7◯8%, so you're still in the minus, w-w. Senator. It's a fact, and we just have to face it, and I'm really sorry. But I think that's what. A senator has made better progress in trying to lower the power bill than this particular example I mentioned. But that is not just what has happened. All special contracts were banned by a single and two energy package, which meant that house - to - house warming in certain areas was a significant increase. She wasn't 10%. It was up to 90%. Bankmaster special contracts, etc., everything that matters to both homes and businesses in the country is a negative effect on energy pack one and two. [[The president calls.]] That's why we say in the Middle East: We're just to be given an exception, and nothing to do with this matter more because it's just, and it's shown itself, not to serve the public and the companies in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u128	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u129	A respectable president. The so-called third energy package will eventually be discussed, and I think it is safe to say that at least Few have been impressed by the discussions that have taken place for several months, for more than 100 hours in the Assembly Hall, and in many parts of the community. Yet, there may have been many differences in the way, in various ways, in which each person seems to be concerned about all the viewpoints that have been toed into the matter. I have not personally felt that the discussion was especially deep in material matters. Rather, it has been much more different than the rest of the conference and the general matter of Congress. It is marked by a great deal of speculation about legal matters and less on the subject for legislation. I've found that there's a problem with chapters, all over the place. I'm not going to say on both sides, because although it's grossly possible to say that men have divided into two categories, with and against the energy package, I think that there is also a considerable percentage of the population, I have identified it of my meetings with voters, if you can put it that way, with all opinions, although they do not fall directly into one of the two groups, with and against the energy package. So I have said, though the debate may be harsh at times, superpower words used on both sides - or on every side - which is certainly not to explain the matter to those who are truly interested in its material contents. What I feel is standing up in the discussion, especially in the summer when people got room to hear people across the country as if they were going to do and I think many did and were merely digested the discussions that took place here for hours, is the attitude of the people who shine against, a sincere interest in protecting the nation's resources as well as sincerity or falsehood, if you can say that, fear of some sort of expedient of authority. There's something that I think the generals need to listen to, whether they are of right or wrong, whether they're just causeless in isolated cases or not. Although this discussion may be divided for two days, all the talks that have been delivered today and the talks delivered yesterday during a discussion of the Council's Reconception of the Foreign Minister's Council would have been open to one discussion, but it's a good thing to divide these matters. The points under consideration are the subject of the case, the two primes and one council proposal. If we take, for example. bill number one. Professional minister, Energy Minister, about the change in power law and energy law in Power Institute there's nothing in that bill that could not have been discussed years ago or done years ago. I don't see this as a direct consequence of the induction of some energy package. I mention that materially, this matter is traditional in my opinion, the traditional matter of the administration of some energy agency. Then there are some opinions about whether they want to increase the independence of the Energy Agency, the Icelandic, or not for monitoring or increasing its role in various decisions or, as mentioned here, whether or not the Power Agency's decisions should be charged with the death of an electronic committee. As is the case in this discussion for the last 100 hours or so, I will take the matter to a very deep degree. What I would like to say on this occasion is that when I look at this case, I have not seen the so - called pack of three energy, the third energy package, in fact, exert a lot of material influence in this country. I refer to what I said, the bills we're discussing today might as well have been taken care of two years ago or five people would have been interested in thinking about how they want to have that government. But I'm more concerned about other matters that come into this chamber to be introduced on the basis of the EEA Convention. You have discussed a pack of energy and a pack of two, and even a package of energy, which has been called a 4-to-1 energy package, which is actually not. His name is the clean energy package, and the case has been packed into a new title. But I think from a discussion of the third energy package that a body of Congress can learn a very good lesson from a response that we have found in the community. I mentioned my keen interest in the preservation and protection of energy resources in general but also in the fear of authority. During the induction of a energy package one and two, and now I'm talking about this in gross terms, various rules that clearly fall under the energy sector of the EEA Convention, the rules that have had a great impact here, far more material effect than ever, have been established by the bills or rules that will be established on the basis of these laws or legislation in the future. There were much more effective rules on that basis, rules that were valid at the time to question the use of a verse in the New World Translation. I can use an example to explain what I mean from one case I was involved in trying to get that induction postponed. It was a song that was involved in renewable energy sources. A legal adjustment requiring the obligation to add all fuel here to renewable energy sources. The rule was introduced several years, four, five, before the period since the European Union itself had given in to it. This was done in spite of the fact that Iceland already has a share of renewable energy in Iceland up to 80% and everything else in this country than in Europe. And despite the fact that the purpose of the rules is not fully clear. But the result of the still standing law, because it was not discussed my bill on delaying the induction of this, has been it, and then I refer to the reply of the secretary of finance to my inquiry a few years ago about the cost, that the direct cost of the Icelandic taxpayers of it is 1 billion, or high, to 1.3 billion dollars, which is then a coin running directly to the foreign manufacturers of biofuels. In other words, this is the cost of buying foreign biofuels that are brought into the country to mix with current fuel, over 1 billion a year. There are cases of them at the lake, including... with this clean energy package being won, and I believe the Icelandic government will prepare better for its induction package than they did for the first and second energy package. The third pack of energy has been in operation for ten years, but I have suspected that the first and second package, the rules there, were created at a faster rate than that. This is what I'd like to mention in this, that there are other cases that will run on the news and call for the induction of energy that is reason to pause and ask basic questions about, as if men should always do: What is the purpose of the rules? Do they apply here? - and so on. This is not limited to energy issues with reference to the EEA energy sector. It's a big case that's also in the water as rules depend on the internal insurance budget, changes in its rules, and other changes in the financial systems. There's a lot of rules. We've seen that the European Union intends to set rules that I find that can walk up here in the country. It is extremely important that at the early stage of the situation, men are aware of it, but they are not involved in what they are experiencing with the third energy package, that they have won the case and agreed on it in the joint EEA committee, and that's how it will work, but then they'll get their backs up in the final meters. That's what I'm stressing. I mentioned earlier that I have detected fear of uncertainty in this case. I also understand it in the language of many woes. senators who have spoken. They point out that there is some uncertainty about the outcome, in case of a case. It has been presented as a right, a left, and everything in between, and some legal ideas change from the same man, being challenged, and repeated, and so on. Thus, all legal literature, like other maybe in the legal world, is burned so far that there is no one ultimate answer. There's a difference between law and law. From my point of view, I would never rely on myself to make any decision in any court of law, no matter what judicial case. This does not mean, however, that humans should not take the step and carry out what they have conviction to do. I'm not going to use the term Danir uses, with the permission of a president, but I'm allowed to pronounce it here in the symposium: ▪ Dentid, den grief. This is not the right view of such matters. We have international cooperation and we want to do it. I believe that the whole world of Congress wants to do it. We have decided to assign foreign institutions to settle differences when we contend with other countries in certain specific situations, clearly limited cases, and obviously it needs to be maintained and not allow the foreign institutions to decide or make decisions about anything other than what they have been assigned to do. But if they do so, and if foreign courts, foreign agencies, foreign governments, they will make decisions against Icelandic interests, government or Icelandic legislation, they will be drawn here on land. The fight, or action, will be taken in this country. It won't be any worse than that we're in the same situation and we're saying that there's a certain impossible way to keep the wishes of foreign officials, after times, about some sort of intervention here. We also need to be alert to this and to realize that the European Union itself is making great changes during this timeline, the past year and year. Of course, the EEA Union has become deeply entrenched to us since 1991 when we started working on it, legally established some time later. Of course, it is not to be expected that such a contract should always be taken into account in the interests of both parties or all parties, especially in the light of the fact that the European Union is not the same European Union as when we made the EEA deal. From the year 2000 onward, the European Union began to develop and establish a European institution that was given a judicial and decision in various matters between the Member States. It hadn't been before. I mention, for example, the European Food Agency, the Air Security Agency, the European Economic Commission, the Department of Human Protection, introduced in one day by Congress without discussion, my case in its own time. This trend must be considered with regard to the EEA Convention. Of course, there's no way we're going to hand over some kind of judicious authority over anything we didn't negotiate in the EEA agreement to these institutions. I don't know that they wanted to, but I'm not gonna rule them out -- I'm not gonna go crazy -- I'm gonna decide to make some decisions they haven't been asked to make, but that's what happens here we deal with. We have courts. We have three points of judgment. We have no more judgments. Icelandic courts are at last looking after Iceland's sovereignty. That battle can't depend on abroad, it's here. And they must shoulder that responsibility. This is what I mention and would like to say in a discussion about all these matters. I expect the entire body of Congress to be equally interested in all the types that await us through a variety of forms, not only in this field but in all others of the EEA agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, the thought and thought that were part of it, and I allow myself to add: As expected. I want to take this opportunity to ask - because I'm sorry. A senator must be considered, and considered indiscriminate, among heavyweightweights at the Senate when it comes to legal matters - whether she agrees with the head of the Independence Party and the Deputy Director of the Independence Party about it, so I just put it this way, that it's safe for us to use 102 gr. The EEA Convention. With the permission of a president, I will read two sentences from a talk at the highest. The financial and economic minister from yesterday, who I asked to be written up, the minister is also chairman of the Independence Party: ▪ The right to use this article is undisputed. It is a direct basis for cooperation so far. However, it is important that the terms of the Conventional Treatments of the EEA are followed so that we do not become repeatedly involved in the need to intervene once they have gone to the limit of 102 degrees. is the only alternative, the only option to intervene. However, I would always recommend that this be done if necessary. I simply don't think there is a need to go so far this time. In these words, he would think, in spite of what the minister of foreign affairs described at the beginning of this discussion, that the EEA contract itself is under control and that if this council proposal was not approved, he would be upset. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister of industry made a very similar statement today, as did the ones I quoted in the case of the highest court. Financial and economic ministers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u131	A respectable president. I don't know what it means to be a legal heavyweight. As I described in my talk, one hand may be against another when it comes to taking steps on legal opinions and who wants to know them. All speculations, I'm just right, because they think law is like science, it's not science, it can happen. Ticket is an option, as they say sometimes. Sometimes it is said at my house, with absurd demands to make, that the only place in the world where it is possible for humans to bring them into court. It's just that way. But I'm good at it. A senator referred to a talk at the highest. The secretary of finance from yesterday, which I strongly encourage to listen to because she was very clear - that all other speeches were born yesterday - in that he well described the process of this third energy package at the council, because he is one of the few who is still sitting at a council who knows the history and of his own experience as the former head of the Foreign Affairs. He knows the process. I agree with him that it is, of course, whenever it is possible to shoot matters forward and to apply the article at any given moment. A senator mentioned. But you must have to choose your own battles. You must want to avoid calling a wolf, wolf. As I described in my speech, I don't consider anything in the third pack of energy to call for this emotion in the matter, let alone that man works this law. I think there are a number of other matters to consider. But in this--just sorry. I'm sorry, I say for what. A senator. But I won't be accused of wanting to enter here without any comment, but I don't see why in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u132	Thank you. A senator for the answer has become three very influential members of the Independence Party who have expressed the opinion that it is safe to go that way, the main motion of the legal advisers of the government, to bring the case back to the common committee on the basis of Article 102. Of course, it is very important to get this out. I can't help saying that I can't agree with what. A senator must talk about emotional shock when talking about the media and warnings. Our language is naturally built on warnings found in the legal opinion of the legal advisers of the government itself. The fins that can be seen among the people, most definitely, perhaps. in very much, no emotion will be felt. I've got two questions for you. Senator. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, five Supreme Court attorneys, and a regional judge, that the legal guardian is not holding? He has no national value? And third, is a what? A senator disagrees with the government's advisers, the Friðrik of the Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Stefánsson, that the Power Institute for Social Relations might create the position that the ESA would appeal to us to a contract break-up case that they clearly do not consider a great odds against us? As a person knows, such matters can result in serious damages and financial expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u133	A respectable president. If you have a what? A senator was upset that I used the term postmortem, of course, to apologize for it. It's just that I'm so emotional because I find it so fascinating, so charming when people are moved by some sort of thing, so that it's so more positive than the other. But you're not supposed to use those words, you're trying to put them into moderation. Hv. A senator asks me if I agree with you on a legal note. If he is referring to a warning made in a government decree, the next council may change it. Laws and other things can change. It just takes more part at the council. I have to admit, I haven't quite figured out this phenomenon, legally speaking. I think it's clean and direct that men come up with things and aren't doing things like that. But I'm not going to claim it, and I can't give a legal opinion or memo on whether anything is holding or not, but I think, as I've mentioned many times here in my speech and in my objections, that the law is a very different tool, and what else I don't know. That's where everyone's doing it. The same answer can I give you. A senator for the second inquiry, whether or not an ESA will ever decide that this will be an oscillation. Of course, I find that farfetched. I believe it is impossible, with what warning I've said before, to come to the conclusion that the state has to do it. But if there could be a person or a company complaining to ESA and telling him that they can't run their business, I mean, it might as well be. [[The president calls.]] You'll find out the strangest results in a court of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u134	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. There are many things in her speech that you can agree with, especially when it comes to her words about the introductions and how the whole process works. No doubt it can be changed, and it is a question of whether we can determine whether we can make it more efficient in some way. Hv. A senator said in his speech - first used a Danish saying, but then he said: "There are times, there are counsels. What you're afraid of in this case is that we can change the law, we can do it, but we don't go back to that decision to lift the control warning and take out the third energy package. And the main concern may be that we've seen in the loop of the fourth energy package, I'd like to put it that way, which is the result. They're developing the rules now being introduced. And, yes, we started with the first and second energy directive and then we proceed now. There is no way to use it to say: "There are times to come, advice to come. " We will not later be able to deal with the opinions that exist today regarding our duties or not with regard to government interests when we have introduced the third energy package on the fourth, for example. Men talk a lot about cables. You're thinking, "Would it somehow be possible to judge us by the EFTA Court to allow a sea cable? Sea - to - sea conditions, land bases, and so forth have been successful. On the Internet, I saw that the Norwegians have been convicted of ESAs, electrical cables from land to oil farms, agreed to this agreement. [[The president calls.]] There are so many things that are still in doubt. [[The president calls.]] That is why I feel unable to say: " There are times to come, advice to come. ' Not about this. Of course, the senator is right that we can always change the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u135	A respectable president. What I meant by referring to what may have happened is that we cannot foresee the future, what will happen in the future. We can prepare for various forms. We can have our own infrastructure so that they can respond. Hv. A senator brings up a wide range of motion pictures here. I believe that we are in no further position to make decisions about this today, about the factors he mentioned in his talk. I take as an example the cable, which has been a little discussed here in connection with the third energy package, although it does not adapt. I didn't hear any better than the Chairman of a party dog. A senator declared that he didn't want a sea cable, that he wanted to beat it off of the table, preferably by a change of records - now he didn't say it, but he wanted to strike it out of the table so strongly that a sea cable would not be placed here. I think it's completely out of the question, and it's highly unconcerned, to hit something that's just not been discussed. I don't have any material or technical grounds to decide whether to get a cable here or not. All I can say: If the nation's interests were to be served to put a cable at some point, it would be absurd to have nailed it down that it would not be done. But we are always in the position to react to unexpected events and events in the future. That's what I mean: Here's the advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is true that part of our work, and only in general, is to react to unexpected events or to react to future events. Today, however, we enjoy the luxury of seeing only the future. We will see what the European Union intends to do when it comes to energy. We'll see what course it is, we'll know which direction it is. The policy is one huge common energy market where you will have to share your energy with others. The prices will be controlled. It will be opened for competition at the same time. There are a lot of things that we're bringing in with this third energy package that can make a difference. We're going to be judged at one time or if our will is to be done. It's this certain thing, what we can see in the fourth energy package, that we would like to get into it because it has come out. As a result, it is safe to say, an emotional disorder of the whole case, because we would like to take advantage of the opportunity to see into the future that we can see in the European Union's energy policy predicting whether we're really going to film it, because we're introducing a part of it with this source - energy agency, ACER, all of it all. I'm gonna take advantage of this opportunity to ask you why. Senator one question. I don't know how much she's been studying this, but it doesn't matter that she didn't study it because it hasn't been a lot to talk about. I only mentioned in the previous year that there has been a considerable statement that there is no obligation to put this cable out of our town, something like that. It has been observed that Norway did not receive an exception from the cables that leave the country in the oil pots. ESAs concluded that the Directive applies to activities in the economic history and land base of the Member States. [[The president calls.]] Now I don't know what it is. A senator knows the example, how we keep these groundworks together. [[The president calls.]] Is this something we don't have to worry about once ESAs have reached this conclusion, or the Commission? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u137	A respectable president. Only to the first as a dog. A senator mentioned, to finish the future that we cannot see. He describes us as merely seeing the future, claiming that the European Union wants to make this one market. That's right, they're looking at the same market. But I've never found a place where people will insist on making some kind of new energy, e.g. or place new structures to inject into the system and so on. All you can say to this is what I've said in the past: If you're gonna come here and cut us off or take away our energy in some way, then of course it's, of course, I don't know, a kind of declaration of war. We'll have to defend them on land then. So here we go. I don't think there's anything that can happen if some men come from Europe and I'm just going to plug in some sea cable and suck out the energy -- it's a metaphor, a bit exaggerated, I think the discussion was that way. If that happens, we're not going to sit there and do anything about it. Of course not! No such thing can be done without our consent. That's why I'm always stressing this: the Supreme Being is here, we're not gonna be taken off, either with the EEA agreement or any other international agreements. The sovereignty is here. But it's also here that we have to protect, from Icelandic courts e.g. It's their job to do that, and so is the Lawgiver. Now concerning this Norwegian matter, it is true that which shall be done by reason of the wind. Senator, I don't know anything about it. Of course, this is something that needs to be considered. If they don't serve their interests - and now you don't know why Norwegians have complained about it - to have these rules in this way, it's something they should record. [[The president calls.]] They may be able to do it, I just don't know it. [[The president calls.]] But let's not overlook the fact that we have an opportunity in the EEA Convention to get leaveovers and special adjustments. [[The president calls.]] We just haven't been using it enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u138	A respectable president. I'm gonna get involved in this discussion about the induction of the third energy package and the three issues that are under today's discussion. I can fully admit that I had serious doubts about the induction of the third energy package, especially on the grounds that the great pressure created that the cable would be followed by pressure on the activation projects on nature's costs and the increase in electrical prices to the public. I've tried to study the matter to the best of my ability and conscience and, as it is today, in the hands of the Allied Commission and the National Affairs Committee, I believe it is not to give authority over our energy resources nor our personal right to the reforming of a sea cable. But to some extent I can understand the concerns that have been presented in this discussion by those who fear the induction of the third energy package. It is especially because of the high propaganda that has been against his introduction and not always in a grammatical way that I feel. For example, consider the case of opposers of the energy package several times, i.e. that the European Union has set out Belgium for inadequate implementation of EU type which is part of the third energy package. Some seem to think that there is a possibility that such a matter could arise here. However, in this respect the European Commission has concluded that Belgium has not properly introduced laws on the authority of the Belgian Electric Power Commission and, especially, since bulgeists do not have independence to make binding decisions to companies in the energy market, they have only a proposal to the Belgium government. Let's also bear in mind that Belgium is in the European Union, not Iceland. Here, we will discuss strengthening the energy monitoring of the Power Institute by explaining the role and increasing the independence of that institution. We, on a professional board, got a presentation on our energy report these days. Their case included: until the so-called national rule, which in our case is Power Institute, is created by this energy package will receive two main projects. One would be to remove all the obstacles to marine cables from abroad. Of course, this is a case of pure and direct wrongdoing. I can understand that human heat is in humans when the resources of the country are discussed, and as I said, I had doubts at first about this matter. But they must not lose their lives in this discussion, creating the fear of the public in the country that it is being handed over to us as an independent nation of national energy resources, because that is so far from there. This is where we talk. motion that the Council will always have the final word when it comes to granting the permission of the sea cable. It must matter. We cannot control the future or change the past. We do not choose who made decisions ahead of us, nor do we decide who will take place in the future at the Council, but we, sitting here, must want to trust those who will be seated on the Council, whether they are us or others, in order to make the right decision, democratic decision, if it comes to anyone who wants to go along with an unacquainted future. There are no examples of a government decision to fix a cable against the will of the government. This has not been demonstrated in the discussion here. It was set up at a joint assembly of members of the government on March 20th. to retract the application for the transponder project IceLink, on the EU PCI list. I think that's all that matters, too. A national network has already sent a report that the application is retracted. In Brussels, it is important to care for intensive interests. This does not mean doing as the Icelandic government did in 2007, promising to adopt the European Union's food policy, and then waking up a bad dream a decade later and finding out that it was wrong and illegal. This is the government to correct by placing great emphasis on early interests and to follow more closely than was done in the previous years. It is a key factor in continuing to be of benefit to us in Iceland in the years ahead, as it is here to protect its interests. This contract cannot be self-controlled because it will present issues that are not suitable for the Icelandic situation. A respectable president. Our resources in Iceland are immensely valuable, both to sea and to land, and our green energy attracts attention and is certainly desirable and is seen from other countries. It is important to have a conversation about how to protect the resources and move toward green energy use. However, there is talk at home in a field other than in a discussion about these matters here. The third energy pack turns towards us, including ... aspreservationof consumers. It's no secret that me and my partners in the left green were at the market of the electricity package of the first and second energy package, but today we are not at that breakthrough. It has been completed and made, and since energy packages have been introduced, it is important to ensure the right of consumers to access electricity distribution systems, to ensure market transparency, and to maintain the independent control. We are here dealing with the increased energy monitoring of the Power Institute and the benefits of their independence by consumers. The two issues discussed here focus on the fact that only after the discussion and approval of the General Assembly for changes in government policy on the development of electrical transport systems will be used. The second is a proposal for a change in electricity law, which provides a new arrangement for the transport of the electricity system to other countries by transpiration cables according to government policies on the building of electricity transport systems. I believe we're here to see that there will be no sea cable laid in Iceland against the government's will, and without the exception of much discussion in the political field and the public of the country. A number of experts have been involved in this case during the months when it has been under discussion at the General Assembly, and as noted, it has been at the political scene for about ten years. But we who sit at the Council are not each of us under law, and to guide us, we have our most skilled experts in various matters, our government, our national rights, to name something. Respectful experts have considered the various fields of opinion, and changes have led to strengthening this matter to Iceland's guardianship of the decision for the possible fixation of sea cables at some point in the future. I like those experts. In the opinion of a foreign legal committee, it is claimed that there is no legal doubt that the proposed route and synonyms of the Foreign Minister's resolution are based on a constitution. Of course, I think that's all that matters, because we're not going to go against the Constitution of this country through this induction. Since then, there have been some opinions that we have given our most skilled experts to weigh to the best of our ability. But as the previous speaker, why. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen, no one can predetermine with full certainty that what a court might conclude in each case. That must say itself. Of course, a person must try to approach whether there is a greater or less possibility of doing so, and this is done by turning to us of the most skilled experts. By permission of the President, I quote what is going on in Hilmar Gunnlaugsson, a lawyer who wrote a final essay in the master's course of energy rights on the ACER and the effect of the third energy package. He says that the induction of the third energy package is not a decision to place a sea cable or to turn power over to ACER. In fact, it will be more difficult to lay a cable along the induction of the third energy package than it is, he says, and he refers to a warning set also on the subject we are discussing. ... aboutday. By permission of the President, I'd like to refer to more experts whom the General Assembly has consulted. Bjarni Már Magnússon, professor of the University of Reykjavík and Corine Advisor of Ocean Rights, says incorrectly that the Icelandic government loses a government's authority on cables, e.g. would prevent such damages, and the government would have every right to prevent a cable. Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, vice president of the U.S. National Court, says farfetched to read from the third energy package a commitment to sea cables and to believe that there is no risk by means of a planned introduction. Skúli Magnússon of the district judge, who has often been mentioned in this hearing recently, the district judge of the province of Reykjavík, and the former office manager of the EFTA Court, rejects the argument that the transpiration of the sea cable is linked to the third energy package. Margrét Einarsdóttir of law at the University of Reykjavík said far - fetchedly to read the legal commitment to sea cables in the general terms of the third energy package. Stefán Stefánsson, also known as a rather frequent speaker, professor of the University of Iceland's Law, and Attorney FriðrikssonÁrni has said that the warnings of Iceland during the induction of the third energy package would have to be very clear if they were to think. However, in a letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee, they say that when all the Senate matters, reports, and other data are read together, warnings are properly arranged. In the future, no one will ever be able to forbid anyone to test it in court whether it is ESA or any other international court that humans may choose to shoot a case that has to do with the third energy package and that we are connected to the common energy market in Europe. Fortunately, it is the right of all to test court cases. I quote to Judge Skúli Magnússon of the County Court of Reykjavík, in which he discussed possible damages by a cable and says that there is nothing in the material of the case that can be based on a lawsuit and that we are not obliged to lay sea cables and that the possible damages due to a sea cable are similar to legal science fiction. But it is as it is, people view money in a different way, and it's amazing how they speak here in a cross with all this information in front of them. But sometimes when they serve the cause, they beat their heads to the stone and don't want to believe what's black in whites or put everything on the wrong track and say it might go this way or gay. But we are here at the General Assembly to make decisions in the best of our conscience after seeking all the information we believe is needed to make informed decisions. And by the fact that we've been doing this for a long time, first by the administration and then by the General, this is a square of ten years, the knot should have been cut off, though it had been before, e.g. In spring, allowing the council hall to vote on these matters. But we made compromises, as we often have to do, and we conclude that we were going to make that decision by the end of August, which we are making today. I feel complete that this discussion has been very serious. Each one has his or her own views, and then we as an institution are responsible for the decision that will be made here. I'm finally saying I'm not afraid of the third energy package as it looks. But I admit that when the first and second energy package was present and the production and distribution were separated, I was afraid of its consequences. Of course, there were others who were then attending a council, but the conclusion of that time was that of implementing these commands. We can't change the time. But we are to keep on the watch. I believe the EEA deal is important to us as a nation in many ways. When it was made at its time, it was under the prerequisite that there were seven countries up to the EEA Convention against 12 European states so that the force of nations then present in the EEA to make favorable agreements was very high. Now times have changed. There have been many more countries added to the European Union, and now we are three states with the EEA Convention, so I think we need to hold on to what we have achieved when the balance of power between the parties that made this contract was seven states against 12 European countries. We are to be on guard and to use our most skilled specialists to review with each government in advance the implementation of the directives under the EEA Convention. I trust governments to be on guard there and we ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u139	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. I'd like to ask the senator in two. First, the senator mentioned this Belgium case, which has been mentioned several times and is, in effect, about the fact that Belgium did not properly introduce a decree from the European Union, i.e. With respect to this pack of three, they decided to keep or control certain items for themselves, i.e. Governments, and do not submit to the Institute of Energy. It seems that the majority of the part here is going to introduce the third energy package and the laws that follow it on a certain scale. Then I'll ask who. Councilman: This model used for introductions, where can you find it in the source information in the introduction process? Where can we do this in advance? Is this not as forbidden as not bringing in the whole package? I don't know that it is permitted to implement regulations in advance and that they are not properly introduced. What's the difference? Second of all. Hv. A senator mentioned the ocean covenant and such. The noted senator's refusal to the European Commission at the time - I actually told ESA here in a previous speech, which was the European Commission - Norway of the exception of the third spherical energy package for sea cables, for cables leaving the country in oil dumps? On what grounds? Yes, because they're on the special budget and on the land base. As a result, you ask: " Does this mean the same for Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u140	Madam President. Norway, of course, is in a different place from ours. Norway is on the mainland making good use of a common energy market. They sell energy and buy back and are under hat other than us that are not connected to Europe's energy market. I believe it alone is of great importance in this relationship, that Norway is a party to the European common energy market. I think there are major issues in this context, and on this basis there are a number of issues that can be more difficult to resolve than those of us that are not connected to the market. That's where we stand. In terms of the warnings here made and whether they will survive the future, we know that the European Energy Director and the European Union, the Management Board, knows about these issues. We've got our most skilled experts to review them in advance. But it's like everything, I trust these officers will hold, i.e. The third energy package that attracts us to the pan-European joint market, an electric market, that the true value of the energy package does not take effect while we are not members of the joint market for Europe. I'm just... I'm just... I'm really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, But as I said in my speech, it must be tested only if any case is raised that is believed that they will sue us Icelanders and suggest that we are an independent nation with our courts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wondered, or did not wonder, I must say that I was not really asking whether the defence would be sufficient for courts unless this was the senator's answer to that question. I said, Is this the right way to come in? You're now picked up for the wrong induction because they didn't accept it properly. I've never heard of the fact that language is introduced on one-sided notice, no matter what the alarm looks like. That's why I'm wondering if there's any chance that there's a chance there, that we're doing the wrong thing. We're not bringing in the entire order. We are going to hold on to a certain portion, i.e. when it comes to these cables as a dog. A senator mentioned. That is why I ask again whether the pattern of these matters is not exactly what they say we're leaving a certain section, taking notice of something, but we're not going to enter, hence we're not coming in properly. For Norway, everything is true. A senator said. Norway, of course, is connected with a lot of cables and stuff. However, the Commission concluded that the Directive, energy package three or all that is involved, applies to this transvestite cable. It is not relevant to whether Norway is connected south or how it is. Only the directive we're enforcing here applies to these strings into the drills. They are suggesting that the Directive applies to activities in the economic history and land base of the Member States. This is shown in a memo published by the Department of Employment for the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u142	Madam President. As I considered in my case, all these experts, lawyers in various areas of the ocean's affairs, national rights, governmental orders, and national sovereigns have already given detailed details of these issues. A senator mentioned earlier. As a senator, I have come to the conclusion of my belief that the opinion of those who are made in that way, as I quoted earlier, is that it will last. I trust that. Not what. A senator or the one standing here are already taught and will not be alone in evaluating it with that knowledge. To that end, we have the experts we've been calling for because there's a lot of disagreement. You have to be very careful. Of course, some decision must finally be made on the basis of the greater interests or less interests and the low probability that these may be not enough. We may be obliged to implement the entire energy package, even though we are not members of the European electricity market. But we've got the answers from the experts we've been looking for so that all of this should pass our mind. On this, I base my conclusions that the induction of this third energy package will have little effect on us Icelanders except on increasing the eco-efficiency monitoring, competition, and that will benefit consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u143	A respectable president. It's been an excellent conversation here today, I think the majority, if not all. We're gonna go for a second. A senator who was last able to speak in an excellent way, and I thank her for that, it was well done how it was answered. On the other hand, we naturally disagree about certain matters, whether to listen to these lawyers or to the other lawyers. There's a lot of uncertainty about a number of things legally involved. Then you wonder, " Should I take the chance of accepting it or waiting for it and keep the doubt on the other side, so to speak? ' At least that's what I think, but I'm sure that's the issue. To this day, it has become more clear that those who are a member of the case, main judges, justify such a course to themselves significantly following the court decisions made. At the same time, it has been observed that at least the independence party leaders believe that there is no basis for a conflict in the use of the 102 str. The EEA Convention, unless they think it's a reason for it right now. It is their opinion, and we must respect her even if we may disagree with her. There are a few things I would like to come on and really write down. The discussion is about to end, as we all know. First of all, I don't think that there has been any convincing evidence that any of the premiums committed to keeping Iceland in a contract case or in some way involved in this contract. That's what a lot of people have pointed out. I'm not an expert on it, but I see that people are afraid of it. I have also asked, and I wonder, because men have testified that the Commission of the European Commission considers that the Directive applies to national bases and to national economic legislation in accordance with a denial given to Norway on the request of annuity. I must admit that I'm not particularly well at sea, whether this is relevant to that argument, into the discussion now. Of course, it has also been said that there is a problem in the case of Icelandic courts. We thought that we were well - versed in a so - called meat language. It didn't work out that way. So, of course, some in that hall rejoiced. Men have come into the puzzle, especially representatives of the Archipelago, and called the Middle Class Poop list, and I don't know what, they call them nationalistic names. I must say, a respectable president, that I consider it a compliment from the Lustland to be thought of as a nation, to think of the country, the Icelandic, even the flag. It is good news when restoration people speak thus of the Middle Class. I'd rather be there than a spokesman for the rich, the merchants, and the people who want to sell it to international organizations with international alliances. I wouldn't stay there, not on that ship, so they say. There has also been a significant discussion of the Belgian language. For me, it's not about the content of the matter. It's mainly that Belgar is accused of misinforming that directive. I wondered if we're doing the same thing with the advance they're putting in there, whether we're going to have to think that we're doing it in the wrong way. So we have not had any answers until then. Then I'd like to come back to a pack of four. That package is out and was introduced on July 25th. If I recall correctly, and then, of course, had been working a long time. It is true that he will no doubt take several years to enter the Icelandic system all together, but it will not change that certain members of the country, stakeholders, government firms, institutions, are looking at this package. I call it the fourth energy package. It has been called the winter package, I saw somewhere, and also the green energy package, something like that, a very pretty name, of course. But a fourth pack of energy is just a continuation of the other three, the first, the second and the third, straight up, because it's all one combination. What's being introduced is the European Union's energy policy, that's what's underneath. There is not a single chunk that matches the puzzle number three or that. It's all one combination that's being developed and adjusted gradually. It may be that these energy directives or packages will become more than four, five, or six, or God may know what. Depending on the way the European Union is going to achieve its targets, which are being shown well in their policy documents. This is shown in the fourth energy package, in Article 3. Regulation No. 944/2019, considering Member States that they should make sure that their national law does not interfere with electrical exchanges across borders or distribution of electricity production and new links between Member States to ensure that electrical prices actually reflect demand and supply. You wonder, " What does it mean to prevent unnecessary self - control? ' In any case, the European Union has shown us in black that it is a single combination, one market this alliance intends to create and achieve. A respectable president. Of course, I could talk a lot about it. I'm worried about the questions that still remain. I miss a little bit about the government groups and group members not all of them telling us why we're supposed to bring in this energy package. That hasn't been said yet, at least not clearly. It's a lot of nonsense that the EEA contract is in danger if you put this off. That's clearly the authority. The European Union has never threatened Iceland so I know, not even when we had a conversation. Of course, there was no threat at the table. It will not be now either, for if the European Union wants to be taken seriously, it will seriously respect the agreements it makes. A respectable president. Of course, in the end there will be a vote on this matter, and then we will be responsible for the way we vote. I still believe that, and in fact, much more of the opinion now than I was perhaps a few weeks ago or months ago, that we should postpone it. We're supposed to see what's ahead in a pack of four, and we'll evaluate the overall effect as we can. We have the opportunity to evaluate the overall effect, and that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I always find the criticism of the middle-class people that when we speak the language of consumers, we are speaking to traders. When speaking competitively, we are speaking in some way about special interests and not about the obvious interests of the common people, but let's not join them here. After all the foam that has been involved in this discussion, there is a question about the possible violation of treaties against Iceland. It's been written a lot about it, and it seems to me that most of our national rights experts agree that the Sea Rights Treated Over the EEA Convention in this regard. A clear example for the European Court of Justice has been set in which the European Court's decision is made clear that the European Court'stain of the Sea Treaty goes beyond European regulations, and hence it is clear that we will always have custody over our country when it comes to sea cables. So I ask. Perhaps for one thing: Does he know any examples of the opposite, since the precedents for this interpretation have been pointed out in support? Second, and maybe more important, the seaband operation is an enormous project that involves not only planning to create some strings between countries but also requiring the structure of the transport workers at home, the activations very likely to provide energy: but, rather, smog. A senator who had some sober investment might think of doing this as a total of 3,800,1,000 billion projects on the basis of receiving the President's judgment of the Icelandic state? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Who would go on such a project?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u145	V.E.G. President. I thought that was it. A senator would do better than I did when it came to the way people try to become rich in companies and projects. But if there are 800 billion investments that may produce more than or equal to 2,000 billion, yes, they will not hesitate to sue against the United States in order to bring such activity to its hands. They will not hesitate to do so if there is much greater gain. It's all set up, so I'll tell you. With the examples of judgment, I will admit that I do not remember who they are, but I will take full note of the lawyers who have warned about this, and that will be enough for me. Senator. It's enough that many or some, I'm not going to say many, lawyers, judges, Supreme Court attorneys, warn us that this may lead to our betterment. Then I'll say, let's take a closer look. Let us see what the future holds because we can see it. For example, what is the development of these developments in the European Union in a pack of four energy? Are those rules being changed? Is bringing more power to some institutions? What changes lie ahead? There is no need to take this step now that we can do this in this way. Hv. A senator can complain about how the Middle Class talks about restoration, but I experience this presentation just exactly as he comes from the cow, if you don't mind me saying so. I have to say, the only foam that's ever happened here is by the Archipelago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u146	Madam President. No doubt, we can spend long periods of time on a record as to where the bubbles come from, yes. [[Foreground on: Soap bath.]] That may be the very essence, and I'm making a little distinction between which law - trained men I listen to. When I hear our greatest national rights specialists, when I hear the seafood experts refer to this clear, as well as to the court case and to the decision of the ocean covenant which leaves no doubt about our custody of land bases and therefore all the plans to fix sea cables here to the land, and is not to take sides to see whether such a string is desirable or not only if we have any authority on whether it will be laid, I would more likely listen to such experts than other law men who have not been able to point to judge, no precedents of such a case over the head, that it is meant that a person could directly force a nation, business to do business as a legal case. This includes the need to target significant transport systems at home and activation projects. I'm going to mention whether any brain - wise invest was going to think of that at first, an example of how difficult it is for Landsnet to build here a simple diadem between two points in spite of the full political will behind such structure. It is obvious that no investors would attack such structure, such investment, without being fully cooperating with the Icelandic government. It also provides insight into the judgments referred to from the high court that he would never have a case to build on. Nor would there be any danger of such lawsuits, for it is absurd to think that investors will risk such money in investments in conflicts and conflicts with the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u147	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. Senators just have to disagree on this. I would like to thank the senator for his objections and the compromises and for having participated in the discussion even though we disagree on the content. For example, we have accepted a variety of other commitments at the scene of this cooperation, the four freedoms. We know exactly that the European Union views energy as a product to be free access between, etc. In effect, a person is dealing with whether a higher one, the right of the sea, or the special agreement there is. It's done, and I'm not ready to take that chance. It's just that way. For the Norway and the Sea Court covenant. In fact, since 2014 the European Commission has rejected Norway's application of cables to the drilling panels and has said that the directive as a basis for controlling economic law and land bases has been advised by the European Commission. I'd like to receive a clearer answer from our ocean expert whether he'd give up Iceland in any way. Is that the basic line, and where is it exactly? I don't think I'm on the beach. It's got direct lines. Is there a basis for that? Does the directive not return from baseline to shore? According to the Commission's opinion on Norway, the Directive applies on the basis of national and economic legislation. I thought we should try to get that clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u148	President. The three issues that we present today are relevant to the independence of the Energy Agency, as well as to the two main points of advance, are a political arrangement that says that no sea cable will be laid without the approval of the General Assembly and a bill that will be attached to the energy policy that sets out for the approval of the General Assembly. It has been legally established by both the Parliament's resolution and the legislation bill, which is in place to ensure that the cables are not laid unless it is approved by the General. We've been having this conversation today. This means that it will require a minimum interpretation of a synonym in order to get started by inspecting sea cables and must undergo a wide range of diagnostic work together on the economic and social effects of etc. So these two cases create a specific warning, must be done with a lot of diagnostic work. Then it has to be at the council, and then it would be possible, again, because of the Parliament's arrangement, as the third energy package is a pact proposal, to use a filamentist. So other defenses are being put down. I have understood the discussion, and it is clear to many that they do not feel safe. But there are other defenses. Now it is clear that all members of Congress have signed a vote on this matter on Monday, which means that they have preparated their right to continued verbal abuse of the case. The only protection available on these matters is to put it in place and agree that the approval of the Generalis will need in the future in case of an underwater cable. At least they're protected. I've talked to other middle-class members about it today, and they don't think it's any harm, but they say, "I don't think that's enough. " But there are other defenses, i.e. that the constitution of government will be granted only according to the national legal approval of the nation. [[The president calls.]] It's on the Council of Control. That law is unique in the work group of prime ministers for the change in constitution to which the Middle category is involved. [[The president calls.]] This is offered according to the Constitution before the end of the term. [[The president calls.]] Is the senator in favor of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u149	A respectable president. I think it's very interesting, and I think I might be in favor of a arrangement or a set of things. Of course, it depends only on how it would be implemented. I'd like to see it first, but I don't think it's impossible that way has gone. Today, we do not have a clear set of regulations as to how we serve in a Kingdom capacity. It has often been noted during the discussion that this needs to be explained in some way and has previously been tried to set up regulations in the Constitution of how we can issue government, especially to the international institutions, which are usually in mind of the EEA Convention. But I find it very interesting that in such large matters as this, it is defined in some way that we simply have to let the nation. We're gonna go for a second. A senator knows well, and some years ago he may have debated the importance of the wording of a question when asking a question, e.g. of the Council of Control, how objective the question may be, how illuminating presentations should be about what is going on, etc. The distribution is also important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u150	All I expect is what I expect. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is pleased with the way Icesave cases went to the National Remuneration Act. This is exactly the way the law is. If the Council is going to agree with something, just as the General agrees with a legal bill, the President can refer it to the nation. In this case, you don't even have to ask the president for it. It says here, by permission of the President: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for making national rights that include the expeditation of government to the international institutions involved in peace and economic cooperation. The head of the state must always be reversible. The law shall set out in more detail the favor of government under the national rights contract. The General Assembly agreed to validate a contract which includes the office of government, shall be subject to a national law for approval or innuendo. The results of such national pay are binding. It's just built into it. If the Council is going to hand over state power, hand over total authority over the rockstones, it will have to go to binding National Remuneration (U.S.) for approval or innuendo. It doesn't have to be the president. It has to go. Isn't that something the senator approves of? This is in the bill of the Council of Control, although not in favor of all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u151	A respectable president. If I recall correctly, there was much fine in the bill of the Government Council, although I was not in favor of everything that came out there. Like what? A senator read it up then seems to me like it's all government, that the definition is that if we're handing it over to a government, it's under the people. In fact, he said total government, if I just noticed, or added, but if it's just government... state's office, okay. [[The expeditor of the state.]] That's a question for me: If there's a change, e.g. Some European principle that we have agreed to - or are we talking about the promotion of government? What I'm trying to come out of me is that we need to define first what falls under government hall if we're to go that way. This may be the explanation or reference today. Maybe it's enough, maybe we should just stick with it, that we need to appreciate it as if we appreciate it with this administrative notice whether it needs to be removed, to determine if it needs to be done, or not, and then we can go as far as it goes. A senator is talking about. But I don't think it's absurd to do this at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u152	President. What we're talking about today isn't the third energy package per se, he was talked about yesterday, he's on the State Department, he's taken special yesterday, and he's a conquistador proposal. What we are discussing right now is three cases that went to a job - care committee. One of them is the bill that Power Institute is independent what the government feels is necessary to do in order for a legal basis in Iceland to meet what the Constitution proposal says. The strategy, which is the third pack of energy itself, is, in effect, to be noted in the EEA rules what the European Union has approved in the internal market, the third energy package. Then there are two other issues that were on the job board, one leading to a concierge proposal and, on the other hand, a law bill that attaches a cable to be placed only with the approval of the General Assembly, that is the Congress Recontraction proposal, and it will be attached to a legal bill for electronic policy. What's been happening in conversations here today, including... To the media, my ass. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason and Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzoff, who are under the committees and follow these matters, i.e. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, the General Commission, and the Work Board, these premises are not bad in themselves, but they are not enough. What they really do is they offer it to the General, as I talked to the Supreme Court. The minister of the past must agree with a synonym which means, just as was practiced in spring for the third energy package, a concierge proposal, that if a cable is to be put in place and the Council has to agree with it by Congress resolution, it would be possible to sue them. And as stated by Friðrik and Friski, this government manager has arrived. It is only when these cables are connected to what they want to mean that they have no doubt about the constitution, and that would be the struggle to keep a constitution or not out of Stefán and Friðrik's understanding. When it comes to the Senate resolution with the third energy package, I will vote against it because I think it's enough, have repeatedly said it here, although I have made a mistake by paying a vote with a case I was told not to contradict the constitution but made it possible, because I want it very narrow. If there's any doubt, I'd like to share it with the constitution. Then I'd like to have the new constitution placed in place, which says regarding the expeditation of state power that it is clear and under the constitution how it is done and no doubt that if to hand over state authority is now, as stated in the bill of the Council of Government, it would be a provision for payment on all parties at the conference of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to change the constitution for the end of the term. It says that the hall of the state, as I read earlier, I can read it again to those who are paying close attention with the permission of the president: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for making national rights that include the expeditation of government to the international institutions involved in peace and economic cooperation. The head of the state must always be reversible. The law shall set out in more detail the favor of government under the national rights contract. The General Assembly agreed to validate a contract which includes the office of government, shall be subject to a national law for approval or innuendo. The results of such national pay are binding. Then it's just exactly what it's like, which it's not today. Today, men consult scholars, some interpret it only beyond others, even some, as I do, will if there is any doubt, let the constitution enjoy the doubt. It's very floating, very different. There it would be just a cypress. It must be carried under the nation if there was to be a deed to the State. With the third energy package, I will vote against him and give the constitution the benefit of the doubt. The Constitution should be adjusted so that these things can be done through the coming of the nation. Regarding the three issues we are discussing today, which is the independence of the Power Institute - I am not quite at the conclusion there. I have heard very misleading things about the extent to which Power Institute is subject to implementing regulations that come from the European Union following and exactly how it is. So I'm a little on the sidelines as far as I'm concerned. In view of these two priorities, all members of the Parliament have agreed that on this matter the vote will be paid on Monday, which means that all members of the Parliament have prejudged their right to continue their seminars. However, the two matters allowed to be said that if a cable is to be submitted first, it must be agreed by the Generals, which means that exactly as it was this protection in ours, when the Central Party had a lawsuit about the third energy package, which is a synonym, the protection must be restored to the approval of the Council's Syllarization Directive, and then there is the protection to go to the debate if a be passed. So I'll accept that. It's just extra defense. Pirars recently voted to propose that a third energy package would be placed in a national law. That suggestion was defective in that sense so that it would be said to bind the hands of members of Congress, that is, the Constitution is not allowed, so it was dropped. There's another suggestion now in our system that says this, by permission of a president: A U.S. election may require a national bill for a bill or a concierge proposal to be discussed at the General Assembly. In such cases, a Congress party of Porta enforces the requirement either by independent proposals that the matter be made on national terms or by making changes to the relevant matters so that it will not take effect unless the people first agree to it for a national fee. It can be attached to a synonym and a bill of bills, if you make such a change, and it has agreed to make it a case that must be made into the possession of a binding national agreement. To this day, binding national laws can be ensured on a case approved by the Council by making such adjustments. If this proposal is approved, which I firmly expect because it is in accordance with the bill of the Council of Government, which is the policy of Pirata, and has been our priority in getting approved, it means that if 10% of the people - we are up to 67%, with the energy package - we agree to a legal case, we will submit it as a change in the proposal to become a binding national agreement on that matter. What is this matter? If we only stay away from looking at the third energy package and moving on to the fourth and fifth and second energy, in general, into the internal market, the EEA community overall, the possibility of working around the EEA or going farther away - these forces are at work on the one hand and on the other, the forces that are in this particular, the third energy package, with the will of the people of the country to have custody of their own resources, to have resources on national property, and the will of the people of the country to get their affairs, majors, national pay. Many people are afraid of this matter and would like to receive it in a national term, even though the collection of signatures was shown only to 6%, who signed it. You don't know exactly where the nation stands in this regard. What is this about? If we look at the politics, we'll see that the Central Party is playing against this and never backs it up, that there might be something positive about this. He has pointed to a lot of risky things that are very good. Then we will see: No, it's not quite that risky. You don't agree with it, you never agree, and then you start to think, "It's a bit romantic politics. ' In other words, they are not necessarily to handle the matter, they are to continue the same fear - inspiring propaganda. It's starting to panic when people in conversation all over, who aren't here on the platform, see that it's not quite like that. It may not be quite right, when you talk to people inside of our energy, that they're getting equalized for energy prices. It's supposed to lower energy prices. It's the policy to lower the energy prices. Why, then, is that not taken up in the public address? It's not recording. I refer to two positive cases, i.e. setting up an increase in advance and extra defenses by the synonym and the bill we're discussing today, increasing defenses in order to maintain a verbal barrier in case of interconnecting the cable. Why is this not a positive matter? That's a good thing, too, for those who want to stop the third energy package, but you can't talk about it, so you start thinking, "It's just political shooting holes. And so you can see from the other side, but even the management forces back and back, and today, the middle-class members have spoken a great deal about the fact that the son of Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of the budget, has said that you could totally activate the 102 str. which means that the case can be re-routed to the EEA Committee. In fact, governments have been more objective than middle class members who do not want to back up on anything. And then you think: Out of this matter, there's a lot of political smell that one on other grounds was worried about. But they don't back up anything they say when you point out: Here's something positive, there's extra protection, but if you don't want to agree with it, you're gonna see that it's a huge political deal. Another indication that the matter is being used primarily for political purposes is who, for example, exists. Behind our Power. I just considered today that these are men of the World Vision who do not want to go to the European Union. These are mainly world-reversaries who have been running World Visions since 2014 for five years, i.e. Frosti Sigurjónsson, Guðni Ágústsson, Styrmir Gunnarsson and Ágmundur, son of Jónasson. These men do not want to go to the European Union and could have taken the third energy package and made it very political, and frightened people even of the EEA partnership and could have moved further out of it. It's political very good for them. It is political - man sees that course of course. paritaprevir The winners of Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunoll, say he doesn't want it either. He'd rather go the other way. These are tremendous political interests to move away from the European Union and even to the point of moving out of the EEA community. I asked our Orkan when she came in spring: you want to take all of this together and watch the third energy pack with a fourth, second, and first, okay, but are you willing to tell us about these energy bags? We wouldn't have to tell ourselves out of the EEA Convention, yes, but if we had to, that's even possible. Okay, what's the priority for those who fight this energy package? I think it's remembered about the energy package and more about moving out of the EEA, moving away from the EU, and there's a lot to sacrifice for it. Of this, there is an enormous political smell, and people are ready to bring all sorts of half truths, sometimes false ones, and even unreceptively, that some half - truths may have been introduced, etc. and it points out that people are not ready to back it up. I think the strategia is this: it's glycopyr/paste of Bgreit, i.e. We have certain political ideologies that the Middle Ages seem to have, which is that they should move more out of international community, take power home, but then it does not seem to me that there is a very great willingness to move to the people. It's to be brought to the politicians. This comment about moving it from the officials and politicians to make the decision is exactly the same as we can see. The question is, What can be sacrificed for that? There seems to be a great deal to be sacrificed for this. Looks like this future's driving me. It's just strategical, and, of course, it's very clever to do it like this. This is glycopyrr/paste of Bfenit and from that which has been working there. Thereafter, national pay is to be used if they claim to achieve what they want, but they were not prepared to respect the national will of 2012 on the new constitution. This is not possible, so it is only chosen and rejected when it comes to national willingness, what is to be done with some international community work, even if it requires enormous interest for the people of the country, for consumers. The EEA is very good for consumers. I don't want to join the European Union because I find too much room for political authority there, but it would be good for consumers to walk in the European Union. I'll focus more on political power, civil rights and stuff. I don't want to join the European Union, but we can tell ourselves about the EEA work if we think it's too much, I don't want to stop there, and I don't want to accept this energy package. I focus on the economic impact, but many in Iceland are more economic and are therefore much more important. In any case, through all this speech, I'm getting relatively aware - I can always change my mind if you point out something else - that this is what's going to be going to happen in Icelandic politics, and the middle party is going to have the next semester and the years, maybe the decade. We don't know. This is what will be, one after another, even at the expense of huge economic interests for the people and consumers, to tell us more about and to be more independent when it comes to economic cooperation with other countries, to bring in than to strong politicians. It's a world movie that makes me feel really bad. But there is one thing that those who support this battle at the Central Party and our Power should look to, since this is what they want, are more defences available. There are defenses in the new constitution, the defenses, and several of the principles of those who are now being discussed by the government covenant for a change in the constitution. They've got natural resources on national property. I challenge you both to watch whether the Middle Class is going to support it. There are defenses, and if they had come, they would have been protected from the fears people have that they should merely activate everything. There are laws on nature protection in a constitution that would also mean that pressure could not be brought from outside, which is part of the fearor, that it would just have to activate everything here. There are public expeditations so that government service will only be done with the national approval of binding national law. It's against the fact that if we get strong politicians who are going to do their own thing against their national will, the nation can bring the matter up to them. We've seen it and seen it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson as Minister of Foreign Affairs had to submit a Parliamentary decree, and made it possible to report to the EU. It was the induction, but he decided himself, since he did not receive it, to send a letter to Brussels that had been canceled. A powerful politician, one of whom makes the decisions contrary to national will, who wanted to vote for them. How important it is, then, that, if possible, those who speak of powerful leaders who are going to make their way and make decisions that we be given a constitution of regulations that will bind these politicians and stop them if they are going to cross the nation! That's what we've seen. It must be tied up in a constitution that if they plan to make decisions against the national will, 10 percent of the people can bring it up to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u153	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion too much, but it's a pleasure that here we are finally discussing the real contents of the third energy package, what remains, when all the fear-free propaganda in this case has been pushed aside. The discussion must be divided in two. On one hand, the joint energy market in the European Union, which we are already involved in through the first and second energy package, has actually been a part of the EEA Convention since we signed it in our time in the quarter of a century ago. There's no dispute. We are part of the European Union's common energy market, and the third energy package is not about whether we're going to become a party to that market or not. We are already doing so, and many of the discussion that concerns, for example. The discussion of the cables or markets of electricity has simply taken place. We'd have to leave the EEA deal behind. We're not going to come to this party today for extraditems from something we've already made. The third energy pack is simply an independent observer, an increased focus on competition and consumer rights, and then, of course, the role of the Energy Agency or regulations in each Member State and the ACER Institute are being sharpened when it comes to the non-contracted exchange of electronic energy across national borders that are not at issue in this issue in a country where we are not connected to the continent of Europe. Let's talk about what it's all about. It may be primarily the consumer rights that I feel have been a little discussed in this context and, in fact, minimized, the importance of competition with the electricity market, as in other markets. And there we have seen, and we have conclusive, unexpected, and endless examples of the fact that while this level of reasonableness is late to perfection, it is getting stronger, has influenced, and has led to the lower price to consumers, not higher, as has often been claimed. paritaprevir Birgir of Þórarinsson, including According to a statement, there had been high prices in electricity in this country following the marketing of an electrical market in 2003. There is a report prepared for the Icelandic government that clearly shows the opposite. The real value of electricity dropped during the first few years after the first energy package became valid during markets and promoting the competitive environment of the electricity market. Electric prices have increased real value and are similar to the actual value of today when the first energy package went into effect. The reason is clear and simple. Electricity market power loss, including the U.S. In recent years, it is reflected in the fact that the country's network has been offered a considerably lower offer in the so - called loss of energy simply because it lacks energy into the system. It has nothing to do with our connection or lack of connection with a joint European electricity market. It has to do with just saying that in recent years, we have activated too little to meet the demand for energy in the country and are watching, and we are being warned about electrical security, the risk of power shortages. Let's talk about the facts. A competition in the electricity market has had a positive effect on consumers, and to further support, the component of the electrical price being competitive, for much of it is the transfer and distribution of public prices, dropped or increased considerably less than that of public prices. I also think it is forgotten during the discussion that it is constantly being tried to paint this joint European electricity market some dark color, that it poses a threat to us, that there is a different view behind the fact that the European Union is building a common powerful electrical market. Targets for a joint European electricity market are not particularly complex. They are not very mysterious, much less dangerous or dangerous to a nation like us. It's talking about improving energy efficiency. Electricity consumption in Europe's continental continents is a major factor in reducing electricity waste and the investment, the emphasis on building a common network for European continents, has come first to reduce energy waste, and secondly to increase competition with consumer electronic energy for benefits. The environment of Europe's electricity markets was like this in this country characteristic of a few competitions, for monotonous companies, most often in public interest. This is simply an effort to increase the market for free competition so that consumers will benefit from competition there, as in other markets. And we always see the same examples, even though we can always criticize that competition is not enough or not perfect, that too little competition is always far better than competition. So we're supposed to put together to promote the competition here too. Of course, the third key point is a clean environment that is increasing the impact of green energy, environmental energy in Europe's electricity market. Happily, growth has been taking place and is an enormously important environment for the planet all that we succeed in it. This is in the simplicity of the electricity package that we have been introduced; increased competition, reduced power production, increased use of green energy. It's not complicated, and there's nothing to be afraid of. These are all very good and noble goals that we should not be afraid to share in strengthening. After considering this matter, you ask yourself: " What is it that the existing Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, who, in particular, was responsible for working on the induction of this case, to raise the possible energy warnings of Iceland, to the European Union when this was actually for discussion with the European Commission of the European Commission in 2013-2016, would not provide the same warnings? On the contrary, it was the government's conclusion at that time, led by Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, the prime minister, and Gunnar Bragi, the minister of foreign affairs, that there was nothing to fear in these matters, this would be a case ready to enter the EEA Convention. I have to admit that I have quite a lot more confidence in the words of those they were responsible for that class, that I had a administrative responsibility for Iceland's interests in those matters than now, when the same men are in a position of government and describe the case as extremely dangerous in all places. I trusted in the words of the then prime minister and minister of foreign affairs and their actions in the matter more than the words and actions of the same individuals now in a different position. What appears to be left, if we only go through the basics of the case that the warning has been given, the introduction does not meet the constitution, that this includes some sort of extravasation of our resources. Each of these has been rejected by all the major experts in the country, including the experts most commonly referred to by the Central Party Parliament. The case is presented here with sufficient clear warnings to pass the full constitution of the republic and is therefore a substitute guard in our main interest in the matter. There has been a lot of talk about electrical prices and the inevitable use of the energy package and will continue to increase electricity prices. The fact is, when you look at it, you might think about it. A very careful and thorough report produced by the ELA Institute for the Management Board on the development of electrical prices, from the time the first energy package took effect in 2003, the value of electricity prices has been established. This means that there was no more or less rise than the prices in the country in general at the same time. That's all the shit that's been going on. As I described in my case earlier, the effects of the first few years after the induction of the first electricity package were reduced by real power. The rise in recent years is more explained by the lack of electricity than by our introduction to the basic common energy markets, i.e. separation of diffusers and transport systems and then the free competition for electricity sales. Of course, it can be thought at the same time: Do we have sufficient power and effective monitoring of the uninterrupted or monopolification section of the electricity market, which is, of course, the transport market and the network market where there is no competition? I don't think so. It is shown that the price of that transport service has increased more than the price of the electricity itself, which is competitive. Therefore, I support my brain that the monitoring role of the Power Institute is being sharpened in this regard. I don't think that's been properly taken care of. I think it's too much coercion as is often canceled when we have a public company that is then subject to rules for decision-making at their guards and services, they are too eager to get up proposals approved. As a result, I rejoice that this monitoring will be intensified, with the interests of consumers, with the interests of the market being guided by the interests of market competition. There has also been a great deal of discussion about cables. Well, I'm not going to go over the legal vacuum for the violations of the treaty, but it's clear that when it comes to fixing the sea cable over the base of the country, the legal contract is leading beyond the EEA rights. It is clear according to the Sea Treaty that there we have a full jurisdiction as to whether a cable is going to be placed here or not. Therefore, the European Court of Justice, which has been repeatedly suggested, also provides a very clear opinion of our major experts in this regard. I don't think there's any reason to worry about a contract-scrap on that basis. The four freedoms of the EEA Convention, including It is a matter of freedom of business that everyone has the freedom to sell from one country to another, does not mean that they have the right to force the mold to the same business. The ministry can be offered. There is a fundamental difference in this context. If Iceland requires a sea cable, it might be a duty to offer such a project, e.g. to the European Economic Area, to seek out more than one party on the possible sale of such a sea cable, or to respect the basics of four freedoms when it comes to these factors. But I can't, as foreign investors, come up to Iceland and demand that the Icelandic government deal with me through a sea cable which they would then have to use probes to build up all the infrastructures and fortresses to feed. Each reasonable person sees that such a business will never be built. It has to do with the organizational legislation here at home for the construction of a mnemonician in case they are to be built. It changes the basics of the use of resources that we have full custody of. We'll never be forced to power the continuum transfunctioner to generate electricity on a cable. These are legal simplistics when it comes to speculating contract violations. There has been no precedent for any country's pressure on this sort of business. These are trapeze or legal science fiction, such as a nice lawyer and a judge expressed it. But what I find to be the worst part of the whole discussion is the panic propaganda that has been seen in the sea cable discussion that we face a tremendous threat from putting in here a sea cable. The discussion of a cable is all there is to learn about Iceland's interests in the export of electricity. It's good to remember that we are moving out today, 80 to85% of our energy production through aluminium and the products of energy - carrying industry. A cable string will do nothing but strengthen our ability to export electricity. In this regard, we should weigh our interests, whether or not we share in the overall context of things. The discussion of increasing power prices to households is certainly an important factor in such interest, but it is also important to remember that if we as a nation receive higher electricity prices for our production, they can also be affected in our homes by such factors as this. to reduce or drop the value tax on electricity for household use. It is a very simple procedure and a good way to look at it when comparing electronic energy to domestic use in this country with our neighboring countries, e.g. To Norway, it is not the fundamental difference that is often described. We are in the centre of Europe when it comes to electronic products that simply make sense to us that it would be easy if we chose to put a cable here, and it led to a higher electrical price to meet it by e.g. Lowering the value tax on household electricity. The country would make a lot of money. The interests of the homes would have come that way. On that basis, we should weigh the benefits of a cable, such as our roads, and appreciate all our advantages in exporting goods and services. What is our best interests as a nation? How do we concentrate on the price of our move so that we can build here a high standard of living? There should be no panic over this, no more than other factors. This is exactly the same by nature as our choice of exporting our seams. Here, no sane man would think of setting a sea bus to limit his export potential to our important resource because we wanted to keep kilos perspiration at home. It's only a fraction of the total interest. We need to weigh our interests together according to what brings the whole nation to the best of their ability. Of course, the interests of the households depend on, but also on how we make the most of the money we earn from our important resource of electricity. The media has repeatedly asked in the discussion: Why not refer the case to the joint EEA committee? There is no precedent for such a statement in the 25-year implementation of the EEA Convention but it has been described by experts as an absolute emergency in this case. Why should that emergency be used now? What is it in the natural induction of the third energy package that would justify this so that our credibility in the EEA work would not be compromised? I have not seen any of the arguments in the Middle Class lawsuits, either this spring or this time again discussing this case at the council that justify the use of such an emergency. On the contrary, this is probably one of the EEA issues that are less likely to occur in recent years when it comes to the EEA community work we've been dealing with. We've been implementing a common policy in a financial market that is much more important, much more effective in the domestic market than the third energy package. Last year we adopted a joint European protection law, which is, in the same way, much more important to homes and employment in this country than ever to our third energy package. There is simply nothing that calls for this emergency here and now. There is no basis for the language, for the fearful propaganda that has been maintained. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why I look forward to the end of the discussion, and we have the opportunity to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u154	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A speaker for the speech. She was mostly a part of the business, and I was surprised. I'd still like to stop because she was confusing, because of what. A senator occasionally spoke against himself. He even said, which is exactly right, he knows: We're moving 80% of our energy into solid form. Will we stop and start moving her out just as she comes from the beast? It's like, you know, you know, that we'd just stop working on a fish in Iceland and send it out with a head and tail just like we did 50 years ago? I don't quite understand. Then I have to admit, what. Senator, the consumer protection show in this case is a laughing matter. My dear colleague mentioned an example today, and I also heard at the same meeting an example of a fine woman who got 452 bucks. year for switching electrical company or distribution company. I thought why. A senator is describing a situation similar to that in Iceland's fuel market, where we have five lines and ten dollars in between. We have a five-fold distribution line, and besides one person who was brought in, we'd have to import traders to reduce prices in Iceland. But that's another story. I just have to admit, what. A senator, that I find exposition of the energy resource, or our authority, extending the constitution to the limit by 452 p.m. every year. I'm not really buying it. Besides, I'm not buying that we stopped moving our energy out and giving away our advantage and stopped moving it into solid form to get it sucked from here for little or nothing. I want to pray. A senator to shed light on this for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u155	Madam President. Thank you. A senator, who was mostly objective. First of all, about a competition with an electric power market, I don't know that kind of thing. A senator refers to, but I have heard it mentioned earlier today. I'll give them my own example again. I've changed the power trade myself earlier this year, and it's going to take me 10% a month. There's a real difference in the account I pay you monthly. That's a little more than 1,000 bucks. ... amonthafter I replaced the power dealers. So I must conclude that this competition is real, that the option is real. But one of the things mentioned as a lack of market competition is how little home knows for this competition and how little it really is to take advantage of its potential to change power trades. This certainly increases market competitive pressure if homes go up to groups of people who are the lowest publishers at any given time. But there's also a page that keeps out prices and it's about 10% on the highest bidder and the lowest candidate in terms of that. I can only confirm that I accepted the offer offered by the lowest bid, and that's the price I get. So I can only see that this competition is active and there. As for the export of electricity through energy-rich industrial products: Of course, I'm not suggesting that we stop this production, we can never export electrical cables all the energy we export in that way. It's obvious. We, however, carry out a fresh whole fish, simply because in some cases it gives us a higher price when everything is measured rather than flaunting it or doing it in other ways. We are exporting seafood in a wide variety of shapes, depending on how our interests work best, and that's what I can see on this market as well. The possibility of transporting electrical energy through a cord is not to be forgotten, but that we can also import it, is simply to strengthen our position of agreement with those who use the electricity at home, but also to create a greater potential for exporting electricity to strengthen our income from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u156	Madam President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. I'm still not convinced, so I'd like to ask him a little bit more. If we look at Iceland's future work branches, I've personally watched gardening, i.e. Welders. The Organization of Garden Prayer has warned of the approval of this case, i.e. the package we've been discussing here, and they say this will walk to the garden in Iceland dead. I see it, and many more as one of the greatest sprouts we have. But if these good men who work in this article are right, and I have no reason or reason to turn it down, then we're going to choke that profession by doing what we're doing right now. Has a what? Is it not the same with a senator who's worried about me? Or has he not heard that argument? Backmasters have also referred to this as a cause of damage, a industry that has both the wealth and the imagination. Then I have to say this: I don't see the burden of accepting a energy package - and we haven't been talking about a sea cable, the middle-class people. It's basically everybody else who's pushing us down that we're talking about a sea cable. We're talking about the constitution, we're talking about power office, etc. On the other hand, the cable can easily arrive because it is payable for such things to happen. I don't see a reason to link Europe with a sea cable to raise electricity prices here and then push the sinks of electricity to the citizens of the country. I'm willing to do it right away without connecting with sea cables, etc. and only lower electricity prices in general in the country as much as we can. And yes, it is, for example. Double power prices in Denmark over here. Yes, there is a significant difference between electronic prices in the area and in neighboring countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u157	Madam President. Thank you. A senator will answer the question later on. I hear I have something to offer. A senator for coffee below to finish convincing him. I don't expect to get it done in the next two minutes, but give me another ten minutes, and we can finish this. Regarding the sea cable discussion: I agree that we have nothing to mix the problem of the sea cable into the discussion of the third energy package. It's just an independent case. Whether we want to go that way or not is an independent decision. We'll just take this discussion carefully and go through our collective interests on whether it's cool or not. It just doesn't have anything to do with what we're talking about here today, so that's why we shouldn't be mixing that conversation. We will not be forced to sea cables. We don't do it differently than we want to do ourselves, and I guess we don't do it any different than we think our interests are paying for it. We can then take an independent discussion as to whether we should cancel the value tax from the energy resource. I felt that it was not unnatural to look to the ways in which the nation benefited. Actually, I think it will work out the same way as using all of our common resources, i.e. that we may contribute to the article the resource expenditure, the expenditure for the resource use as such, and that the nation then enjoys in the form of the profit that comes from it. We're not talking about it in this context of quitting something or anything. Clearly, energy - consuming industry will continue to become an important industry in the coming years, hopefully decades, although it can always change. We also know, however, that we cannot afford much to get one large resort out of a market without our getting a new buyer there. That's why I've made sure that a cable simply strengthens our position, strengthens our position of agreement, increases our potential. Also, when we look at the Norwegian cousin in this context, we must not forget that there is a reason why the Norwegian people have kept growing their sea cables. [[The president calls.]] They have simply seen that in this way their interests have been better protected, and they have gained from it as a nation to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u158	Madam President. I guess I'll have to start by correcting some things. A senator, such as sometimes before, points out that I have never been particularly attached to this third energy package, another. Actually, I don't know what he meant for me. I don't know why. A senator expected me to grab the case from the council, which had it. I don't think he would have taken it well if I had tried to do it at the time. Anyway. I'm not gonna spend any more time on this buttercup as much as I can. A senator borrowed money from the highest. Secretary of state. I'm going to ask him about what he mentioned about the marine covenant and the theory that he will ensure that we have full authority in the controversies because we have authority over the foundation. But this seems to have been stated now, because the Ministry of Employment has in a State Department memo on the effect of the third energy package on the advisability of which Norway sought, and now I quote directly in the memo, Madam President: Norge requested annuity from the command to transport electricity to the oil pots of Norway's land base. The Commission did not agree with the adaptation, the directive, a third energy package - a value for activities in the economic history (EZ) and national base of Member States. There's a reason. That's for a senator. I'd also like to ask him about the so - called Belgium case, but it's in the European Union's announcement that the relationship is going into lawsuits with Belgium, and that it should include. published, in its induction process, that European electricity and gas systems should be set off by Belgian governments rather than by the national rule. It is unacceptable, in the opinion of the EU, that Belgium's government allows conditions to connect Belgium with the electricity and gas system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u159	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Like we used to be comparing apples with oranges. This is clear in the Norwegian example cited to indicate that the directive applies to the electrical transport of national energy, i.e. a cord that goes out to these drills. However, there is a fundamental difference between available relationships and, as a result, business dealings with countries where the third energy package and its conditions apply, and a decision to put new strings between countries. Now it is undisputed that this will not be applied to our jurisdiction, except by our consent, where we have custody over the land base. On the other hand, if we decided to lay such a cord, the directive would, of course, apply to the electronic transfer through that cord, even in a population. This is what the Norwegian example refers to, to electrical transport in the land base, not to a decision to build a new string or not. It is a full custody and judgment example that has been cited to determine whether a cord should be laid or not. With the Belgian case, we're once again discussing the same basics. The decisions are different. In the case of a decision to connect to an energy network and how to deal with an already linked energy network, the third energy package is clear. The National Order shall be independent from the government regarding business policy decisions over existing connections. However, it is unmistakably clear that it is in our custody whether we choose to connect with the Internet or not. But again, if we decide to connect with the Internet, it's the national rule that determines the business conditions of the connection, not the government. [[The president calls.]] This is what the European Commission's treaties to Belgium are about, where the government has not fully ensured the independence of the national rule in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u160	Madam President. This discussion keeps reminding me more and more of Python Monty of the death of the parrot. Despite the obvious fact that this parrot, the third pack of energy, is dead, people continue to try to convince us that it is very much alive. Anyway. Hv. A senator claims that Belgium's issue is that the independentness of the energy agency there has not been fully assured. Yes, it may be possible, but to do what the Agency's independence? In order to wield power. The limit on the independence of the Belgium energy agency was that governments would like to have something to say on these issues, between countries and the implementation of electronics, and that the energy agency had not given adequate independence to take over the European Union. The individuality of the Agency may not be the right word. But this is where the Icelandic government intends to ensure that the European Energy Agency, the National Order, is given sufficient power to manipulate things here without interference from the government and voters. But in view of what happened. A senator said of the land base, I restate upon the fact that the basis is dependent on this energy package so that you can't simply point out control over the farm base and suggest that this is not the value of the energy package. The energy package has been identified, and its impact reaches land base. And finally, I ask why. A senator: Does he know the history of the sea cable in Cyprus? Cyprus is an island like Iceland, and Cyprus is now being linked to Greece in Crete. There were investors, private companies, who collected money to attack that project, reported ACER's interest, and then have been watching that the government in Cyprus and Greece do not put stones in the street of this project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u161	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists a second time. Again: We're talking apples and oranges in this context, dead parrot or alive. There are two differences. The transport of electrical energy through an existing transport network, which is the third energy package, and the legal history of this country rule, is simply the manner in which business conditions are being conducted, the manner in which the transport network is handled. The energy agency of Belgium or Iceland's energy agency has no independent authority to attack a power system that is not already connected to. The energy agency here has no permissions, will not be allowed, to accept anything other than the relevant business conditions, if they exist. She does not decide whether or not to establish a connection. I haven't really examined the Cyprus case. But I do allow myself to doubt very much the authority defined in the energy package that ACER has to say. ACER has a clear legal history in one case and one case in a single case, i.e. When national rules cannot agree on the terms of the conditions to be met in the transport between. ACER cannot specify a connection. ACER cannot intervene or represent the government in the decision to connect. However, if, as an example, the national rule of Cyprus and the national rule of Greece does not agree on the terms of the terms to which the conditions should apply, the ACER can certainly intervene and say: On the basis of the treatment arrangement established here, the terms should be set in a certain way, but it has no jurisdiction to determine whether or not the connection will be established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u162	V.E.G. President. Travel, industrial and innovation minister said earlier today, and actually the point. paritaprevir Sigrrides On. Andersen too, and yesterday the highest. Secretary of the budget, that we could use the 102 str. But it would be their opinion that we would not have to. This is interesting and has not been so clear before with these government officials. The Central Party's lawsuits include... There is a lack of urgency that it is wise to make use of the sources in the EEA Convention and refer the case to the joint EEA committee. So it is clear that those who have had doubts about the introduction of the third European Commission directive and are willing to refer the case to the EEA committee agree with travel, industrial and innovation ministers, why. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen and the highest. Secretary of finance. However, the Minister's assessment of the need for this is out of my mind. It is a pleasure to have the Minister's official confirmation that the EEA contract is not upset if this is done. So it is interesting to see the excitement and speed of subtracting controlled warnings where we here discuss changes in energy law and energy law on Power Institute and in the context of changing the role of the Power Institute. I would like to point out that we are moving power from a minister to the Power Institute, who is not subject to democratic authority. Create this difference including few, according to the bill, guilty licenses, but the bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ The Office of Orku can put a government ticket at a party that violates 1 mg. 4. ........ 7. "Br., 5.mg. 8. ...................... the address of 2nd. 9. Gr., 12. a, 2 mgr. Section 16. and 17th pars. a. At the same time, an energy agency can lay government fines on people who fail to comply with reform requirements at 26 g. a or repeatedly violate the regulations of these tracks. fine according to 1 mg. can study up to 10 percent of an enterprise's well-being. Just this, on its own, says that the decisions made by the Modified Power Agency will not only lead to a administrative problem that can clearly be a misunderstanding but may potentially affect individuals and lawyers by the energy agency's decisions. That's a doubt. It is quite possible that something in this law could improve the public. That, however, is different. The risks we are taking are by no means countering the benefits. Nothing should interfere with our improving Icelandic law for the benefit of the public. However, as members of Congress, we must not take unnecessary risks. V.E.G. President. It said today that law is not science. Too often the interpretation of songs is handled. It's even conducted in the courts. Those who are successful usually give their understanding of the interpretation of the law to each other. It is not until after the decision is made. It is our responsibility to make as much a contract as possible for the nation. We are to take into account all the warnings, and we should never do anything that might make it appear that we are wrong. I believe that now is the time to resist. Under no circumstances should we introduce an arrangement that could harm our interests. It is claimed that without a cable, we have nothing to fear. Nevertheless, it is likely that if a power company were to sue the competitive premium of ACER, it would have to be concluded that national activation in a market would have to divide. This is the reality, and this has got to go. We have personally built up our electrical systems on our own grounds since early in the last century, the production of electricity began. We have not been submerged by other countries, and we have plenty of energy. At the time of the EEA Treaty, 1992, no much was covered with energy, but through the induction of the previously approved energy bags, a unit of energy and a pack of energy, energy was removed, so we began to lose power over energy. I have to say just as it is that if I had been at the Council during this time, I wouldn't have approved a pack of energy. I have also heard in the discussion a few weeks ago wondering what our journey to these matters would be. When you begin a journey, there are other stops along the way, and this energy package can be compared to a journey beginning on a pack of energy, as well as two and then on. But I'm pretty sure that the nation and we - and I - did not realize that we were about to make the journey, so we didn't know about any destination or at all that we were on a trip. As a result, there was virtually no resistance at the time when energy packages one and two were being discussed at the council. I have sometimes thought about it and also mentioned it in talks much less than it does for a few people, leading to a project that became the law of 2015 on the re-education of a professional driver. This leaked through the council without anyone moving back, and there was a vote in the council. I don't think most senators have realized what they were voting for. Since this became legal, drivers who wish to have a job in their rights had to conduct a course of 100,000. It's five courses, 20,000 every time, 100,000 bucks. They have to pay to keep their job cards. However, the introduction stated that this does not apply to island life. The same thing I'm saying about the third energy package, it doesn't mean island. I've been spying on these courses among the managers and they've become so they've even stopped picking them up and they haven't lost their jobs just because, they think, they see how stupid this induction is. This came to my mind now because we really don't know how this journey is taking us. We've approved an energy package one and a energy package two and now most likely a three energy package is through by Monday. The four packets of energy are here, and they're running into it. It is, in fact, there. I've heard, I've been talking about, that we can't trace multiple cables. Then we'll have five and six packs of energy and we'll just have to agree with them because we agreed on the last energy package, etc. I say what has often been heard before: Now is the time to stop. We're supposed to take advantage of 102 st. The EEA Convention, send the case back to the EEA joint committee, and make sure it is without warning, and if land and nation benefit, not evil, and without doubt in this matter. We must not let a small leak on another good boat cause the boat to sink.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u163	Mr. President. I'm going to explain to you that these two days were very useful here at the General Assembly, and perhaps most not least today, after various members of the board and a government team, as it is called, or B government position, have left off a grueling and clear discussion but have taken up a lengthy and helpful discussion. I especially want to be able to give a speech. The Secretary of Economics last night, in which he expressed his view that we were safe to take advantage of the 102 str. The EEA Convention, as we have spoken here, in accordance with the main legal counsel of the government, which has been often referred to. Under the highest perspective. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party took this day to the highest degree. Prime Minister who is also vice president of the Independence Party. Ex-fiancé. Minister of Justice, sir. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen, also agreeed with this view today. I welcome those words to the highest degree. Minister and minister. A senator and I are glad to know that in the leadership of the Independence Party, we have a clear understanding that we are able to do this. It remains at the highest. A foreign minister has been left on a desert island somewhere because he has held the opposite, and since the first day. He claimed, as many will no doubt remember, that the EEA deal would be upset if we dared to take up this case on the joint EEA Commission and ask for our release from these controversial regulations, 713 and 714, just as we are a product of natural gas. The highest grade has been observed. My two advisers, president and vice president of the Independence Party, felt that they were merely asking if it was needed to apply that law. I'm going to tell you that when the nation's resources are involved, and possible collisions with constitutions and so on, it's now a question of whether there is a greater need than just the circumstances that we see here and now. Mr. President. I would like to mention that I have no better than that there is much solid solidarity here at the council on the need to reevaluate the treatment of the EEA at the Generals' scene. The issues we are considering here would have to be discussed and the treatment it has received, both in the form of the accounts that have come, of course, the legal opinions of the committee, before this decision in the joint committee was taken on May 5, 2017. I think it's a joy to know that this arrangement, this trial, needs a review. I would like to mention that, in fact, no one really claims that these legal premises have the slightest value of national rights. They include, I think, that most of the people on one - sided resolutions that are in no way committed to the recipient. Under the heading "Be careful, I'd like to say that a very widespread understanding has come to be that it was at least very dangerous to rule out the possibility of a contract break-in and damage if the way the legal partners call the second best - and thus the opposite - of the two that have been mentioned. I cannot see that any humans who have truly studied the warnings found in the opinion of this subject trust to rule out this threat and, if such an incident occurred, would be able to bring massive damage to the state's funds in line with the scope of this and the cost and that of that kind. I would like to draw attention to what is presented in the afterlife of my objects, including Regarding the proposed implementation of Regulation 713, and I presume the same applies to Regulation 714 that the Regulation is issued by warranty in Article 45. Electrical layer. 45. g. Electrical law allows a minister to set rules on the implementation of electronic energy laws. How can it be interpreted as having this Regulation warrant for implementing a completely new field of electricity, an international connection, contact with foreign institutions, including the EFTA and ACER monitoring agency, in the field of electricity? I'm calling for the highest. Industrial Ministers provide the legal opinions it must have acquired in this regard to the sufficient recovery of this Regulation on the implementation of electronic energy laws under the proposed Regulation to be implemented into Icelandic law, these controversial European regulations, 713 and 714. Mr. President. This discussion is far along, but I have to say that here at the General Assembly there are many members of Congress who would agree to consider themselves good and upright and responsible. In fact, most people, if not all members of the council, do. I would like to appeal to the members of Congress who have wanted to approach this matter responsibly, and I now believe that it applies to all members of the council, with caution on the Constitution in front of the eyes, with care regarding possible damage levels of money that can fall on the state's budget and with consideration for the large part of the nation, which is unconcerned, and those who follow the package of energy have failed to convince. I appeal to members of Congress that they take the better of these two, which is in accordance with the recommendations of the government's legal advisers, to reject this synonym and to represent this case for the joint EEA committee, which is not against us as legal rights, and as top leaders and prominent members of the Independence Party, have presented here at the General Assembly that they count a route. As a precaution, I'd like to say to the nominees: as this case has grown, and while there are questions that are urgent and urgent, as further analysis of possible treaties and damages, further analyses of the precedents which may be due to the European Commission's lawsuits against Belgium and other factors, also considering that the fourth energy package is waiting beyond the corner, I appeal to that. Congress members that the issue will be postponed, and it will be considered more closely. An informed decision on the part of the Generals is, of course, the duty of the Generals in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u164	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. I agree that most members of the council are good and upright and try to do their best to their jobs. I must say for my part that I believe that a large part of the nation is concerned about this matter, as the senator mentioned earlier, that the false information has been raised, especially by members of the Central Party, and others. This has not been a more efficient study at the Council or has helped anything to deal with the current situation. During the past month, I have been sitting with the senator on several foreign committee meetings where this matter has been discussed. In view of the period that has taken place, I find that the senator continues to talk about things that have long since been discussed that I thought we had reached a relatively good joint conclusion. It's, for example. they are still talking about possible damages and violations of four freedoms and that the case should be sent back to the joint EEA committee, despite the fact that the senator does not suggest why it should be done. It also speaks of a lack of national worth. I would like to ask the senator: We left, for example. the value of the Vienna Convention and the value of declarations. Can the senator remember the meeting that took place last week on national terms and so forth? And another: After reading letters, appeals of Már Páls and Friðrik Árni's Friðriksson Hirst of April 10, 2019, does he remember what it says? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator had a few words about misinformation, but he mentioned no examples of such information that would have been claimed of us. The fact is, Mr. President, that three categories of government and the noise of the government stand has failed to convince the people of this matter. On the contrary, the nation is troubled. To argue that one political party could thus have rooted up in a nation that is somewhat unfaithful. [[Up front.]] I traced my speech to the reasons why this case should be handled by the joint EEA committee. First of all, I mentioned caution. I gave the first place to be cautious about the constitution. Third, I mentioned care regarding possible financial damages that could be dropped on the state funds. Of course, that's a fact, no matter what. A senator says that there is a danger. I was able to give consideration to the large percentage of the people who are concerned about this planned induction, and I mentioned that, in fact, there is no disagreement at all, at least In view of the Supreme Leadership of the Independence Party, to see if this is the way it is needed. Of course, the need is obvious, Mr. President. The need is for us to have a special place, we are an island, and we have no electrical connection. [[The president calls.]] We are in a situation where these rules of natural gas are not relevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u166	A respectable president. The Senator will discuss the matter and talk about rules that certainly do not apply here. I agree that the rules of natural gas aren't relevant here, because they gave us an exception. That is why I would like to ask the senator: This case has now been for the treatment of the administration, both in the councils and in the Supreme Court. Allied, for ten years. I just want to know, I just can't figure out what the senator would have, if he had been allowed to solve everything, wanted to add to the trial carefully. How does the senator feel he is lacking in this trial? Does he think the Allied Congress should take 10, 20, 30 years on such a case? When is it time for us to make a decision? I think it's time now. I quoted a letter from Stefán Már Árni's Friðriksson and the Friðrik Hirst on April 10, where the senator should be fully aware, for we have sat together in many international meetings where they say, with the permission of a president: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamental to the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the Constitution. Why does the senator speak again as he does here, that this will in some way violate a constitution, after all the discussions that have taken place in a Senate Hall? And it's interesting to me that the senator talks about respect for the country of Iceland. I don't think it involves respect for the Icelandic people to maintain a filial for almost 200 hours and to hold up the wrong information repeatedly. [[The president calls.]] Where is the respect for the New World Translation? She's not a member of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u167	Mr. President. There's nothing left to it. A senator repeating a statement without referring to an example. Such statements fall into the ordinary form of written language. I will not put any further words into them. There were two things out there. A senator mentioned specifically. The second point was the trial. I have listened to a few talks and a lot of things, and I couldn't better hear, and I give a very special witness. The minister of financial and economics who traced his speech to a problem, as well as to the need for this arrangement to be revised, but more members of the council agree with it. That's why I'm allowed to say it's at least There's not much agreement on this point, but I hear what you're saying. A senator may not be involved in such solidarity. There was another point that the senator mentioned - which was what again? Yes, it was their letter to Friðrik Árni, Friðriksson of Hirst, whose name is the other scholar. The senator took a friendly look, Stefán Már Stefánsson. They write a letter on April 10, and she mentioned what they mentioned at the outset of the letter; but if you read on it, it is clear that they are concerned that the legal defense, as discussed in this letter, may be a basis for the European Monitoring Agency to take up a legal offense. It says this letter, and I'm shocked. A senator to read this letter to the end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u168	Read the downer. Read the whole text.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u169	A respectable president. I think the third energy package, i.e. The Senate proposal we covered last night, quite enough and better than enough, better than too much in my opinion. But here we are discussing other issues that result from the third energy package, including the two primary products. One of them is nine articles, and the other two articles are provided if we take the terms, eight articles, and one paragraph if we do not take them with us. These are the bills that are put forward to produce this terrible, disciplined, awesome third energy package. These are some of the consequences, the consequences of what happens in Icelandic legislation after we accept the third energy package. According to what? A senator earlier today is all that should come into contact with legislation that needs to be established in Iceland after the third energy package is approved. That is a total of nine provisions plus two valids. This isn't too much, considering what you could have kept up with. It was reported that this should set up some EU-outer from ACER that should control energy and so on. I encourage the audience and voters and whatnot. Senators to read this bill. What's obvious about it is how normal it is. I don't think that many people would usually notice such bills when they came in, neither do those government fines and credits. It's not much. It's a very small bill. It's a very small figure, as you can see from the members of my section. It's very little to complain, and, actually, I don't see anything in the Committee's section against this bill, except complaints about the rise in nuclear charge. What a danger to independence! It is quite the most important issue of Iceland's history that there is an increase in nuclear power exchange. Oh, my, my, how awful. Iceland goes down. Seriously, a respectable president. This presentation is absurd in view of what we are discussing today. This is what remains after all. This is what you should have been so afraid of, these are all the treason, all the treason, and this is the whole Iceland State sink into the ocean. A respectable president. This is a joke, nothing less than a joke. The rest of the complaints in my section's members are the guilty warrants of the Power Institute. What if we are joking about receiving such criticisms? So? Does the General Assembly agree to a bill in which one category, and perhaps more, the guilt warrants feel too high, or do they have no need to raise a section of an aurum per kilogram's hour, that it may be too much? But all right, let's say. There has been another incident in the General Assembly, that there is a dispute over a number of crowns. The second in the bill is the independence of the Power Institute, and I want to repeat, underlined, fat-tips and bowls of the Power Institute, not the ACER in Iceland, but the Power Institute, the Icelandic Institute where it operates, I presume, that an overwhelming percentage of Icelanders, does not necessarily matter. It is worth looking only at the articles to see how horrible all of this is. Of course, now I'm being sarcastic. In the 3rd. The bill is, for example, the bill. Talk about the independence of the Power Institute. I guess we're all shaking on the bones to read it. Then there's a fourth. It contains a law that the Power Institute can give a written reminder and that the government can be guilty. I reiterate that it is Power Institute, not ACER, not ESA. In the 5th. It is said that administrative decisions taken by Power Institute on the basis of these legislation on tasks do not support, review and re-vocations allowing, etc. They're charged with electrical power committees so they don't go to ACER, not to ESA. None of the European Union's employees will accept it. Icelandic decision-making committees must accept charges from Iceland due to energy issues in Iceland and contact with the National Energy Institute in Iceland. Six. the amount of money is 0.4 pennies up to 0.58 dollars. Isn't the island really sinking yet? Haven't we lost the sovereignty yet in Level 6. The bill? Then the b- team goes up by 45, too. Seven. Shows that 3 mg/m2 is required. Thirty-seven. ... fora caseofadvisingauthor will be removed. Eight. An energy agency is said to be independent in its decisions when the Agency performs electronic power law. Count 9. This law has already received a law of ordinances. Codes a-and-b-joins 6. will be launched on January 1, 2020. It's all treason. This is all the horrors and horrors that were supposed to hit Iceland. There is no mention of the fact that the European Union has our resources. So that's the introduction to what we were talking about yesterday. I know exactly what to do. Senators would answer if they were in the hall still, and I don't blame them, they've been here enough. Everyone must see that. Indeed, they have stood their own plump in this hall and better. But I imagine they'd say, "What? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, this is not the point. Read the Directive and the EU directive. It seems, in fact, a respected president, that the EU does not establish national legislation in Iceland. It's the General Assembly of Iceland that makes the law in Iceland. It is the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland in Iceland. If the EU thinks it's bad, it's only EU problem. Then, of course, the other thing is that we can, because we're a sovereign nation, and only because we're a sovereign nation, choose to participate in international cooperation and commit ourselves to something and are such agreements thought to both make a lot of money, that's usually the torture, but certainly some will agree to do something they wouldn't do otherwise. Just like when you hire a job or buy some bread at the store. But the middle party always talks like he wants to go to the store and buys bread and doesn't pay. He just always wants to, you can't do anything against it, 'cause then I guess you're not with Iceland anymore, according to the ridiculous language you've heard here and elsewhere in the community on this subject. One thing that can be agreed to do is to make Power Institute independent. I think it's a great idea, because what does the Power Institute do? Now I'd like to take it from here. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson Gunoll's winners specifically complained that politicians should no longer decide things but officials in foreign lands. He said this in a talk earlier. After all that is going on, after all these months of coverage, there is a why. A senator still has the delusion that European officials are running energy in Iceland. Where is it? I wonder if it's in 9. par.? No, that's the value element. This isn't here, Mr. Honorable President. It's just not here. These prophecies of doom are simply not involved. As for the role of international agreements and our position in them, we can, of course, agree to do something. We can, for example. Accepted to make the Power Institute more independent. Great, let's do it. Is this automatically bad just because the proposal comes from the European Union? Hardly. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator in the hall may object and present the contradiction in a pita. What I feel is most boring about the media and opposers of this case at the General Assembly - this is not true of opposers in the community because they usually find themselves in a different position and do not work directly to have studied that matter - is a problem. Senators who have spoken directly today are working on it. They receive more than a million a month for studying such matters and have a reasonable understanding of them, not that they can always read them completely and know everything about them, but they should have minimal knowledge of them, at least know what they're talking about, not in detail, but in basics. But, hey. Central Party members have repeatedly shown that either they have failed to do their basic duty or they say deliberate things they know are not true. I don't need to recite the bad language that suits that behavior. There is nothing in this bill that gives us reason to keep the council hostage for months. There's nothing to freak out about. There is something against it. I have a hunch. A senator in the hall is opposed to the decision of independence, who has heard interviews during the time of the interview. A senator. But to what it is. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson, mentioned earlier, has been mentioned. He is concerned that government officials are taking over the work of democratically elected politicians. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is leaving, but only if I don't think too much about it because we're talking about consumer protection and surveillance, competitive surveillance. Is politicians to pursue consumer protection and competitive surveillance, a respectable president? Politicians have laws and concluded conclusions and other factors and are in charge of the European Commission. The police are supposed to be an independent institution, but politicians are not supposed to be trying to figure out how the police do their daily work. Politicians are not to be caught in consumer protection or competitive control of the electricity market. The idea is ridiculous. Of course, we can set a law on it, and we will, for example, do it. Here, after a fine formula from the third energy package, which has been reviewed by a large number of countries, a lot of brilliant people have been over it and will find out how good it is to have independent surveillance of this market and to ensure consumer protection better, etc. That's a great solution, and as politicians, we can decide to go that way. I'm going to vote with the way I like it. Hv. Senators do not have to, but do not act as if it is being subjugated by democracy. It's our democratic decision to go that way. It is the democratic decision of the European Union of Iceland to cooperate with other countries and with such institutions as the European Union to accept things like the EEA Convention, etc. It's our decisions. Our freedom and independence are the means by which we can make such decisions. Hv. paritaprevir Empresseur Níelsson can e.g. no party became the EEA Convention, they cannot apply for involvement in the European Union and they cannot accept the third energy package. This is because he is not a free, independent, sovereign nation. [[Up front.]] Not yet. It is only an independent sovereign country that can participate in such agreements. That's what makes them sovereign. Just as free people can pick themselves up for work somewhere without ever being called slaves. Only someone with his own means can buy things and make deals about his money. It's part of being able to be money, being able to owe for an apartment, is part of being financial. You can't do that unless you're good at it. Buying an apartment or in debt for such things is not a limit to the financial resources of the people. Similarly, it is not a violation of Iceland's sovereignty to agree with the high International Assembly of Iceland like the third energy pack. I gave a fine talk about the Constitution and the deed that I'm not going to repeat here because I hope more people will come in. But I think if these bills had appeared without the third energy package, no one would have noticed them, they would have flown through. You never know how it is, do you? The members of the Central Party think of votes, but I think the bills would have flown through without much discussion. It's not a big deal, it's simple. Causing a cable is a big deal, but it's just not in here. The cable is not being proposed. No branch office is being set up from the ACER. It's not here. So much of the criticism that has been found to roam the third energy package could be justified if based on facts, i.e. If the claim was correct, there would be some legal doubt here. That should be taken seriously. But there is no governmental doubt. Nobody. There is no governmental doubt in this matter as it was presented. This knows what it's about. Central Party senators. It's just known. We've talked about it for months now. That's for sure. Everyone agrees on that - except why. Councilmen here in a pita. Why? Because it does not suit their political objective to frighten the general population and to confine itself as the defender of national sovereignty and Iceland's independence to be honest on this matter. Finally, I'd like to encourage the voters to read these two bills again. They're not big, two pages, they can be released. These are two small A5 pages of lyrics. It's all the horror. It's where the sovereignty went for little, the island sinks, and so on. What a load of crap, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u170	The president will note that this is about An hour after the discussion period intended for this part of the program, according to a special agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u171	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his very public talk and encouragement to the people of the land to read just the bills themselves. I think if more people did, that fear wouldn't necessarily be there. One quick question, and I won't take another answer, to what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson: Did the senator ever get fired somewhere in these texts that he has read on the word 'Engine Order', and that such an individual would have a special role in this country already and if we bring in these regulations and set these laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u172	A respectable president. I've come across this word in translations of the third energy package, especially in Regulation No. 713/2009 and good if not also in Directive No. 72/2009. I repeat, 2009. It's been 10 years. It's all the hurry. The National Order is what seemed to cause the original misunderstanding, especially with our Energy who seemed to think that the National Order would be some kind of branch office from the ACER that would come here and get some bad officials from abroad and they'd be in charge of the Icelanders of electricity. A national rule, however, is the term applied to the establishment of any nation that monitors electricity. In Iceland, it's Power Institute. So, the Icelandic one, we're not even setting up a new agency. There is only an expansion of the Agency's work area and additional sources, etc. But yes, the Order of the Land of Fear, which has already been warned so much about, and its name is Power Institute. I'm not particularly afraid of it, and I don't think it will cause any significant damage to the electricity market here in the future. I'm not worried about this. But I apologize to a respectable president for taking this much time in my speech. I didn't realize how fast time was going. I was going to make it shorter. I'll shorten this here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u173	V.E.G. President. It's been really interesting to observe the discussion today, and sometimes you're feeling that you're somehow between two worlds. It's hard to figure it out. In the beginning of this case, I was able to call myself an agnostic, but then when you look at it, it was my conclusion that there was no fundamental change in a pack of three energy. Nevertheless, there has been much discussion about this that has been brought about by the Central Party, and I was only relatively pleased with that discussion. I sat all night in this chair for spring. I think I know the talks by heart, but it was very helpful to me. You can sense how people view things differently. Me, of course, just the old lawyer like a dog. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, look at the text, and I look at the diagrams, and I don't see this problem with a pack of three energy. I'm not as good as many others do reading between the lines and seeing something else from the text, but I say that. I don't see it. For example, it is absolutely impossible for me to conclude that using a pack of energy, three would be the duty of some kind of government to connect with the European energy system. Some call it legal aerospace. It may be possible to use that word, but of course it is not possible to oblige us to do such a thing rather than oblige us to drill for oil or to drill for gas or do something like that. That's impossible with Icelandic law. No cable will be laid unless we change the law. And when that obligation is not in my opinion, of course, there is no harm to be done. That's what it says. That doesn't make it any different than law. I can talk here like a lawyer and say, "It's not like this." But there are many against it. We may feel that it's unnecessary, but that's just the reality. And why do many people object to this? Resources. The energy resource is so important to us, and naturally people become suspicious of us, that we are not handling the resource properly. I understand that. When something is important to us and strong feelings are linked, people may read things differently from me. In such a situation, it is so easy to cause suspicion, to doubt that it may be different or that it is likely to be different. Then people become suspicious, and it is very easy to read between the lines and see things differently than the evidence indicates. Another group against the third energy package may be because, under no circumstances, humans do not want to cooperate or bring any power to anyone other than us when it comes to such a resource. I understand that, too. Perfectly understandable. But then we'll have this interest. It's a fetish. I'd like no one to care for what happens here, I'm not talking about in the resource business, but we're in cooperation. We're in the same partnership as most of us if not all here consider a great deal of interest to us and to this nation. Sometimes both cannot be released and held. Not only will it be released but it will not be held. I'm saying, for my part, after a thorough examination that there's nothing to be afraid of in this energy package. I've told you several times before that I don't need to pull the line here with a pack of energy if the nation feels that there are no other rules to share with which energy or energy resources can be shared. If so, we're going to take up the EES deal and IV discussion. The appendix. Is it really so that we think that our interests are better paid, because this is an important resource, that we are part of this contract unchanged? Some say here and have said many times: We should only reject this energy package. The contract will tell you what will happen then. This will go to the EEA joint committee. That would be the third time the case would go there. Of course, nothing will change there. This is the result of the joint EEA committee. So you're saying, we're not going to be in any interaction with the energy resource, and we're either going to have to take it out or we're not going to. I'm not there. That's how I watch it. Humans are actually demanding that the energy be left out. I'm not ready to take that road and upset everything because of what a three energy pack looks like right now. I'm not an addict in this regard. I don't want to go that way because I don't want to be confused. There's no point in sending it back. There's one thing that bothers me with a pack of three energy, and that was part of what was presented in the speech of the giddy. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson earlier, this phenomenon of independent Power Institute. From the very beginning of 2013, I have been at the convention at the beginning of the main policy for independent institutions, which are some kind of island in the community, for which no one is responsible, democratic elected agents have nothing to say and have no connection there, institutions that only have power. That's why I feel that the European Union and all of that very irrefutable thing are always being moved from elected representatives, which is a very dangerous development in general. However, the problem with this is that we have a surveillance facility that needs to be monitored, including with government companies. That's the problem when the state is in competitive business. I say, Okay, I can accept some kind of surveillance agency, she doesn't have to be independent, just a surveillance agency, but she has a different decision as well. I've always objected to the SEC as an agent. The FDA has issues with companies and individuals. This power agency may have issues with companies and individuals, but then one of the parties has a ruling authority. Who invented this? We are so preoccupied with professional people and some phenomenon in a town that has a ruling authority. We need to think about this again. I've been talking about this since 2013 when I came in to the council. It's all over Iceland's governance system, just some people, for example. Contestant watch that's just a decision. True, there is some appeal committee, a higher authority, but even the Contestance Commission doesn't have to follow it, it can sue. It's all twisted somehow. I think it's a full project for the General to review all of this together. But, of course, it's an outcast. I'm not gonna let this thing cause me to disagree with the energy package. That's not good enough. This, however, is a bad development. It's a bad development that a democracies stand out for their power out and south. We've seen it in many cases. It was an independent dresser that decided something. Wait, Minister just says, "Don't look at me." Lots of other agents on this and that. The Land Bank around the City of Refiners. They're just some people. This is ours. We're in control. No, we don't figure it out. It's some length of arm. Who invented this? We need to think this over completely. Finally, the highest. Mr President, because I promised to be brief. Is there a betrayal yet? Up to it. I'm just trying to say here why I'm on this case. I'm not beinglittled by opponents at all, how they're reading out of this. I just think it's great all these discussions. I loved the conversation here at the spring nightclub when I was sitting here, just great. Like the wife said, whenever you're not home, it's always better. But it was a wonderful time. Thank you, Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u174	Mr. President. First and foremost, I want to thank you. paritaprevir And I thank the son of Níelsson for his excellent speech, and thank him for his good words at the end. They are highly valued. I don't want to extend this discussion, Mr. President, but I would like to direct the same kind of inquiry to what. A senator like me today when I had the opportunity to enter. paritaprevir It's over. Andersen, depending on her position and now it's gone. A senator's view of the views established by the Supreme Leadership of the Independence Party, i.e. ... thepresident of the Independence Party, the highest. Financial and economic ministers, and the vice president of the Independence Party, the highest. Secretary of the trade. Then I'll come to the point. In a very interesting talk, the highest. The financial and economic minister moved yesterday, extensive, well thought and interesting, says the highest. A minister in particular that he feels that it is safe for us to go before the joint committee without having the consequences that some have described here with strong words, and he says that if he felt that he needed to do so, he would. V.E.G. Today, the Minister of Industrial Affairs expressed the same attitude as did the same in response to an answer to an answer from me. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen. Now I'm asking why. Senator: takes it easy. A senator whose viewpoint is that of the greatest leaders and influential members of the Independence Party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u175	V.E.G. President. I would, yeah. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ishundsson, if I had the slightest doubt that we were somehow losing control or control over the energy resource. I would also do so in other matters affecting our resources, which involve the basis of our modern society, such as the energy, the fishing road is etc. I've been thinking about it a lot, and as I said in my speech earlier, I don't see any basic change with a pack of three energy, at least not the way it is now. They made enormous preparations to try to ease anxiety, to address what is read between the lines, and what appears to be the main reading here at council, from line to line. I'm no good at it. I'm so square, it's all gonna have to be in lyrics in front of me. I'm totally clean of this stuff. I'm not an imaginative man. I'm not flying at all, except under special circumstances. If I had the slightest doubt that such huge interest would be compromised somewhere, I wouldn't just refer it to the EEA Common Committee, but I'd say no and no again. You see, I'm very good at saying no. But that's not what this case looks like. paritaprevir Ólaf Ísleifsson. But as I said before, I'm not going to belittle people's concerns that this is somehow different. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u176	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There have been reports that four legal leaders in the Independence Party, including the head and vice president of the Party, three of the Supreme Court's attorneys, have concluded that we are safe without the EEA agreement becoming upset to file this case for the EEA committee with the aim of looking for a release from the controversial activities. The reasons would be that, as if I wanted to make it up, we have a special position in these matters, as if we have a special position in the natural gas. We are not involved in the European electricity system, nor are we anxious among the Icelandic people for this matter. Third, of course, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, on account of our clients, declarations have been made about the understanding of Iceland's special status. Then I refer to the joint declaration of the European Commission's energy manager as far as the European Commission is concerned and to the secretary of state, which describes the understanding of Iceland's uniqueness. Also, I refer to the declarations of our cooperation nations in the EFTA enterprise published on May 8 of this year. on the scene of the EEA joint committee which also describes the understanding of Iceland's unique status. Mr. President. There's been a lot of news here. The Independence Party Headquarters and great lawyers, I allow myself to say, have expressed that opinion. I must say, my mind is with a foreign minister left behind. He agreed that the EEA deal itself was in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u177	V.E.G. President. Now I couldn't hear a talk. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Andersen, nor does he recall hearing this in the prefect of the party. If they say so, I don't agree that rejection of the energy package is going to be unexcited. I'm a member of the EFTA Committee on behalf of this very good agency here, and I personally appreciate it by talking with many men that it's not only the EEA deal being upset but the EFTA partnership as such, because it's huge interests. It's simply as if we're making deals and working together as important as being true because if one says no, that means no to the Norwegians and Liechtenstein. If that's how each state will say no when it's convenient, because people have read something between the lines or interpreted things differently, then there's nothing to be in such a partnership. That's to me, self-dead. I have said, however, that this is always a matter of interest. If I thought we were losing control of the energy, I'd say goodbye to this EFTA teamwork and the EEA teamwork totally shameless and carefree and happy. But since we're not doing this, I'm not going to upset this cooperation because it has a huge significance in my mind for this nation's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. One of the interesting talks was given by a member of the council. Hv. A senator is deeply concerned that, as noted in his speech, the EEA contract will be upset if the case is referred to the joint EEA committee. Hv. A senator is a law-engineered member of the EFTA Committee as identified, and he must explain more clearly the excitement he brings. How can you do that, boy? Senator, are you upset by the deal? It's a contract. We can present such issues to the joint EEA committee. We can ask for an exception. How can that upset you? It's impossible for me to understand, huh? Senator. I think you have to try to explain it a little bit more clearly to us. Besides, I'd like to ask you why. A senator can understand his words in a way that makes him feel that this law should not be applied because it will upset everything. So the legislature isn't transferred to the Joint EEA Commission? Are we not done giving it up? Is this deal one way or the other? Senator? I would've liked to have a better explanation for this at the moment. Senator, especially the upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u179	V.E.G. President. I'll be very upset. I say, this case has been in the same EEA committee for years, which is about to be referred to once more. This is the result of the joint EEA committee, this suit here. There's no point in using this emergency, of course, it's an emergency. To me, this is like a law to walk out of the EU. You're just going out. You've come to your conclusion, but you reject it. You're actually saying to me: Bye-bye. That's how I really look at this law. The real requirement of the Central Class and others is that if it's not approved by the European Commission that the energy is separated from us, we won't be included. That's what's being done, huh? paritaprevir Þórarinsson. This is clear to all of us, all our experts, all the people working on it. It is to say, we are not going to have the power unless it is simply left out in our contract. I'm sorry. It's just not available. I'd like to, but there's also no need to separate it altogether because there's a lot of good in these things that I like and some of these things we've put in laws a long time ago and no one said anything because there was good regulations and good rules. [[The president calls.]] That's how I watch it, what it looks like. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u180	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I asked why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, sitting on the State Department of State, whether she knew that the European Union had revealed that the deal could be upset if we didn't confirm this package of energy. The answer is what? The senator was saying that she did not recognize any message from the European Union as to what it was about. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Don't you think we need confirmation from the European Union that if we don't bring this in, the deal will be dismissed? Hv. A senator has just some speculation. He believes and thinks so and is talking to some men, members of the body, in EFTA about possible upset feelings. We'll have to confirm that, boy. Senator. That's what it's all about. I ask again, "Have a reason." A senator has it somehow confirmed by the European Union that if we don't bring in this energy package, everything will be upset and the deal will be canceled?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u181	V.E.G. President. I'm not the most expert in speculations in this Congress Hall. What I'm really saying, huh? A senator, of course, is that I don't know what happens. I don't know if the contract would be quit. But I still know so much that there are three small countries in the EEA Convention and there's not much interest in it in the EU. When this agreement was made, there were seven kingdoms and some of them. In the EU there were 15 countries. There was much more to it than that. There is no interest in this contract in the EU. Just nobody, I know so much. Of course, I don't know what's going to happen. The key point in this is that I don't want to upset it, possibly bad consequences of it, if I don't have to, if there's nothing in the energy package that worries me. If there was something that would make me terribly worried, I'd worry that we would be losing control of the energy resources, over the holdings, our obligation to distribute this or something like that, I would be quite ready to upset him. Absolutely, just really upset. But I'm not there. And I'm not that good at identifying that there's a danger around the third energy package. I can't read it like that. That's why I'm not against him. But I'm not his special sponsor. I'm not, so I really want an energy package and even more. It would be great if the energy package was out. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, though, that will not be the case. But we'll take a look at the next one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u182	In view of the agreement to complete the program, the president realizes that a meeting meeting will have to be held longer than at hand. 20th
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u183	A respectable president. Here we will discuss three of the four issues related to the payment of a three - pack energy package. There are two basics, one synonym proposal and the existing employment committee opinion. These are changes in energy law and energy laws for Power Institutes, which go on increasing the independence of the Energy Agency in behalf of consumers, secondly, the conversion of electricity law to the linking of the national electricity systems to other countries according to the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems and this is precisely in accordance with the third matter, a proposal to be made to a synopsis where there is a clear obligation to the layering of the navigation of the navigation of the sea cables except to the completion of the approval of the General Assembly. I'm particularly glad that this is a decision to make on the link between the energy systems of the country and the electrical systems of other countries. I have long been in and out of the opinion that it is wise to use the energy harnessed in Iceland, although only due to direct and indirect environmental impacts of sea cable repairs and loss of energy during the long-range transport of electrical energy. I also have strong hopes that progress in technology for the next few years will help mankind to develop renewable energy close to a new location. Much has been discussed and written on the induction of the third energy package in the past month, and not much of it has been added, so I'm just going to cut down a few points and let most of the people's difficulties I feel have reached new heights in this discussion. When it comes to financing of electricity control, it should be the same as the funding of the Land Hospital did for me today, and that of a man who repeatedly talks down to the monitoring agencies. In 2009, the treatment of a three - pack energy pack began with the access of ministers and members of the Parliament. Iceland's government had the case for several months before it came to a government party and four cases. The groups took a thorough look at the matter and provided for the conniving treatment. The Parliament's committees have now examined the subject of a three - pack of energy and have considered it. I have also studied matters and the concerns that have been expressed about them. I have a great grasp of people's concerns, such as me, about self-management over their resources. However, I am absolutely convinced that these issues do not adversely affect our provisional rights on the resources or reduce opportunities to improve energy and resource resources in this country. I will continue to place a great deal of emphasis on work with the challenges of energy and resources. Many of these challenges have come to the very attention of the cases we address here, all of which are both important and justified. Yet, they have little or nothing to do with the four issues that we are handling these days. We have to face the challenges we face in policy development, such as the shape of energy policy in progress, the shape of land activation and Landsnet policy, and the improved energy and resource legislation within the country. Then we need to keep track of and ensure Iceland's interest in the up-to-date energy management of the EEA work, as the energy agreement's regulations of the EEA are continually updated. Energy efficiency and energy use are now among mankind's greatest interests. The economic and environmental energy use of all Europeans is a big interest in us Icelanders and that there is a good way to solve the world's climate problems. But back home. It is important to work on the work that we truly are able to do here within the country. As mentioned earlier, we need even. to establish a single target of the distribution of electricity in the country. We need to create further incentives for the use of domestic energy for food production, such as the garden of Eden. We need to explain the responsibility and responsibilities of the country's ownership and benets and that land will be owned by the people and that the resource regulations will be set up in a constitution. But I respect the viewpoint and concern of those who want to be careful about how and how to use the resources of the country. After studying these whole issues and the context of other jobs and policy plans, I will support these issues. Teamwork is now the key to improving the quality of energy and resource resources in this country and in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u184	A respectable president. I will not waste my time pursuing outcasts and disproportionateities toward other members of Congress, that is to her reproach and no one else. I'd like to see if the senator has read a report in the morning newspaper from Britain on the Finland News web, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ On the news site of Britain's French Trade News, the Society's plans for Atlantic SupeConction to lay a cable for electricity from Iceland to United Kingdom have already met the requirements of the materials set out in Icelandic law. Furthermore, what is mainly lacking is green light from the British government. Has the senator been informed that this is the way it is and that they are just waiting for approval in Britain? The next question is, Has the Senator examined the European Commission's conclusions on Norway, but Norway applied for an exception from the loss of the sea cables from abroad to their drills under the third energy package? The Commission concluded that the cables available in the oil farms fall under that directive, even though they are in Norway's economic legal history and on Norway's land base. I'm asking why. A senator whether this matches the claims of the senators who are a member of the case and have pointed to the sea's rights or so as to confirm it? [[Foreground on: The News Covenant]] The Good News Convention? And that's what they said, there's a difference. to report from the attorney's office, that the right of the sea, and the base of the land, have nothing to do with this? However, the European Commission tells them that this type of work means and rejects Norway as an exception. Can the senator explain to me how all of this works? Third, I ask if the senator can tell the difference between a so-called Belgium language where the Belgian government is now under the microscope and bringing in a pack of three here with a warning that has never been made before, and does not agree to what the EEA treats through the introductions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. I have not read a news item on the morning magazine's Web site, but I have wondered what Icelandic law's demand is being referred to. The Senator may be able to explain this. Environmental evaluations have not completely taken place, and these will take some years in this context as well as in other aspects of the marine covenant. It is clear that the energy package covers only transport, where the senator refers to certain factors, energy across borders. Of course, the transfer of energy and sales of energy to the Norwegian farms is the same as that of Norway's energy agency, such as energy transport within the country, under the National Energy Institute of Iceland. Other than that, I can't figure out the senator's question. In Belgium it has been studied several times today, and yesterday it is simply the source of the energy agency in Belgium, the agency that does the same work as the Icelandic energy agency, simply does not have the authority that it should have in accordance with the Belgian induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u186	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. You're right. Belgar misinformed the order. That is exactly what the Icelandic government seems to do. This energy package is introduced into the law in the wrong way. Hv. A senator may want to listen to the fact that never before in history has been introduced with one - side notice. Never before has a state taken one - side notice of its introduction to legislation from the European Union. As a result, the induction cannot be correct. That's what I'm talking about. A senator telling me that if we do this, it's the right way in? Second, I'd like to ask a senator: If that's how a third energy package works in Norway's economic legal history and Norway's land base, is it not in Iceland's economic history and land base?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u187	A respectable president. I don't think it's been shown in my case earlier that we haven't been working on a pack of energy in Norway since we haven't finished his payment yet here. So it is very difficult to refer to how things are being done there. That's what it says. [[Up front.]] If I go back to the Belgium question then Belgium has not supported the authority of the Belgian electric Commission so that it cannot make binding decisions against electrical and gas companies, but has only proposed proposals to the government that such decisions will be made. [[Up front.]] That's what it's all about. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u188	Madam President. I am aware of the shortest time in my life, and I will be careful not to talk too long, though many struggles are in progress. For the past two days, members of the Parliament may prove that it would have been good to have more time for this discussion about the third energy pack. It has, for example. Shows up in the debate today that some senators do not seem to realize how the E.S. regulations work, have waved here the bill, one bill of four, and they just don't feel anything on the bill to worry about. They simply do not seem to realize that once the council has been fully authorized to produce the government, as in this case, the European principle here will be lawd, not just the text of the warrant for its introduction. No, what the European Union suggests, the third energy package, will be the law here. I find it amazing now to hear at the end of this discussion that it is members of Congress who are unaware of the effectiveness of European regulations. It has been suggested that the third energy package is too much read, but it ignores the fact that Europe's right is greatly motivated by the aims of the principle, so that the rules of the approach words are interpreted in the spirit of the alternative words. These are the ones who set the lines on how to interpret what follows. It also worries me that prominent members of the Parliament, some of them, are speaking for the change in how we approach the EEA Treaty and are no longer taking the contract as a contract of sovereign states that should provide mutual practicality for all parties and that they are approaching the EEA Convention, which seems to be going to do so in the future, in the way that it holds an invitation to Iceland. And let us not dare to question that authority, not even allow us to take advantage of the terms of our contract to get our solution, a law that is clearly written into the contract itself. No, now we're supposed to be so scared to be expelled from this contract, no matter how it worked, because no one would want to make a deal with us again, that we just have to give us anything. What message is being sent to the European Union and to our fellow alliances in ESAs with such talk? The message must be that we're just going to have almost anything because we've become afraid to be dumped if we have the nerve to use articles in the contract. True, it was in debates today and yesterday, both from the head of the Independence Party and its vice president, that they quite realized that we had this authority under the contract and that the use of that warrant would upset the agreement, but they did not consider it a cause. At any rate, these leaders of the Independence Party recognize that this authority exists. If we don't use it now, in this large issue, when are we going to do it? If we're using it, we're applying the article, we're maintaining it, we're strengthening the EEA and showing that this involves, not the invitation of foreign countries over Iceland, but the possibility of making peace when people have doubts about the induction. It's still not been able to explain why we have to introduce it, what's in the best interests of it. There have been some game treaties on consumer protection and such, informative reasoning that has not been applied to Icelandic conditions. The reason we haven't been able to explain why we can't send the case back to the joint EEA committee, why we shouldn't have, and in fact, as I had within the past, is that the independence party leaders confirm that there's no basis for that, if we wanted to. Many have pointed to the Central Party and have said that these great doubts and much discussion of this matter simply revolved around the opposition of the Central Party and some of its political loops. I feel that with such talk, there are people whom they demean their associates in their ranks and in effect demeaning the nation because the opposition to the induction of this third energy package is widespread. She's not just a member of the Central Party. It is indeed in the backland of the Independence Party, in the backland of the advance Party, in the backland of the green and among the voters or supporters, as well as in the exhilaration and solidarity, where more is opposed to this induction. Then, allowing themselves to come here and say that this is just the middle party gathering up a mud storm, thus giving their own comrades a long nose. There have also been many real - life experiences of the effects of introducing the third energy package in the discussion during and in the past. The domestic issue in Norway may be one of the latest, first of all. paritaprevir The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir thought it was a question because the Norwegians haven't introduced the package yet because we haven't finished, it's not about that. It is simply a matter of confirmation by the European Union that Norwegians are not allowed out on land base. In other words, a pack of three energy is just as important to the land base as it is to the land base, and the geologic deduction on a cable is not effective. The European Union is involved in litigation with the 12 states of the Union because they have not agreed to supply energy resources, to provide forts built even government companies decades ago - but they ignore this. If offered out, what is involved? Yes, the disintegration of the enterprises, including large-scale energy companies. Earlier this summer, the European Union presented Belgium to the European Court. I traced it to a previous talk like that, so I'm not going to spend many words in it right now. I just want to take this opportunity from a talk. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Liquíts to point out that she was absolutely right. A senator said, this case was changed even. reports that Belgium had not received enough power, not the power to make binding decisions in the national energy sectors. What was the answer? Secretary of finance for this? Yes, this is not going to be a problem for us because we're going to give it to the National Order of Power. In other words, the Icelandic government is going to do better than Belgium, giving in to a democratic power to a agency that accepts the invitations from abroad, from foreign officials, and thus we are going to meet better than the country of the European Union headquarters. It has been tried to argue that the situation in some way is not comparable and that this does not mean that we may have to authorize an aerodynamic cable, even though it specifically refers to a link between the border and the national rule over it. But let us look again at the reality of Cyprus. Cyprus is an island like Iceland, as you know it. Cyprus is now being linked to Greece by means of a cable - and how does that happen? Yes, investors were interested in laying that cable, privates. They reported their interest in ACER. Since then, ACER has progressively returned reports on the course of the problem and monitored that Greece and Cyprus do not get in the way of the project but follow the guidance of this joint European organisation. The evidence that I have most likely heard from the supporters of the case today is that it's been in progress so long, that we've had it hanging over us too long, and that's why we have to agree. I don't agree to the motion, and I'm not showing the same person that this case won't run out on Monday. Although the discussion is about to end, the effects of the induction are just beginning, it will be accepted on Monday. Such a decision will have consequences for the long future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u189	President. I've been thinking about how to paint now. A senator and his associates and these countless hours. It's an old-fashioned hero girl who goes out of it in most words. A senator is right by himself and the people around him. Everyone else is wrong, no matter where people come from, whether they're experts, if they're really nervous. A senator inside or whoever he is. I don't give anything for politics like that. Nothing. [[Up front.]] What you do, then? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. I'd like to try to have a word about real things that lie on the three issues that are discussed today at the moment. Senator, not in some sideliness. That's what I'm talking about. A senator who objects that the European Union's electrical power system will not be attacked by another country's electrical system through a cable unless its approval by the Generals? First question. Another question. That's what I'm talking about. A senator objects to the linking of the nation's electrical energy systems to other countries through sea cables, if necessary, according to the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems? That's what I'm talking about. A senator protests that the Power Institute receives new duties in the consumer protection and the monitoring of local sales and markets?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u190	Mr. President. I'm not saying I'm alone. Another closer one. I don't know why. The senator missed the first part of my speech. I was just pointing out that this case is not about me alone, it's not about the Central Party alone. It is about the attitude of the people who have doubts about this matter. I'm not the only one. The Party of the Central Party is not alone. The majority of the sponsors of the left movement ◯ green supply agrees with us at the Central Party. The majority of the candidates for the Agency are also, and indeed, a majority of the members of the Independence Party. And speaking of wish. A senator discussing real things, that was exactly the real things I was drawing up in my speech and pointing out the facts. But, of course, if I answer the questions asked for me, I do not feel that there should be an allegorical cable, and, of course, I do not agree that such a thing has to be done according to government policy, as is already the case. With regard to the Institute of Control: Yes, I disagree that it will receive power in the way proposed here. Even though I had agreed with the first two events of my life. However, a member of the council mentioned it to me to suggest that if the third energy package is fully introduced, then imagine that later it is possible to decide, whether at the General Assembly or in the National Bank, not to follow the third energy package, it is at best wishful thinking and attitude for which no senator should allow himself to speak, so far-real.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u191	President. Again, we're in a sideliness situation. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. How many experts have spoken of this as being a means of making sure that this is the case? Experts as dog. A senator never testifies. He handles the few experts who comfort him, and doesn't even show the respect to address the others and refute them if he thinks he can do it, I think he now thinks he can drive down almost anything in this world. It is impossible, President, to draw another conclusion from the words of the day. A senator in response to my opposition here but saying that he is saying full feet that this is not in the hands of the Icelanders whether there is a cable or not. I remember that various members of the Central Party have been trying to run from that opinion during the last days. It's fine, then, that the head of the Central Party makes it its final focus in this discussion to say that it does not matter what Icelanders, Icelandic governments, or anyone else in this country feel about seaband repairs. We have no control over that. This, Mr President, is an example of this sideliness in which I refuse to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u192	Mr. President. It is not new that in large and controversial political affairs experts give conflicting opinions, differing views. Then it is political to evaluate things and do what they think is right. However, it is rare to live in the luxury, so to speak, while considering things, that the facts of the matter are revealed so that you no longer have to wonder who is right, which is simply demonstrated, as I have traced them to previous talks, with numerous examples of how the third energy package after induction actually works. With regard to the question of votes at the General Assembly and that is why it is a national bill, I reiterate what I said earlier: of course this is in our hand. We could have decided here at the council not to meet the requirement to allow the import of raw meat and unbounded food. But we were told that if we did, we would have to pay damages to the infinite. This is the situation that may now be setting up Iceland, taking the chance of fully implementing it, and if reality appears suddenly again, as it has done in Belgium and elsewhere, we will simply refuse to obey what we have agreed on. The General will refuse to comply with the rules that they have agreed on, had incorporated, to legalize. It does not free us from the claims of damages, and it certainly does not strengthen our position in the EEA community. Those who speak in great numbers for national relations, good business, and international relations may well have more than others to be warned on Monday and show that the EEA Treaty actually works to protect the interests of the countries working there. [[The president calls.]] If they don't, I'm afraid there are many instances where there will be reasons to remind them of that decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-29-131.u193	A respectable president. It's with great joy that I stand up here to measure the last case we're going to take care of here at 149th Congress, especially after the much discussion that has developed about a so-called energy package. I mean, here's a lot more exciting, fun and important stuff. So this is our opinion of the Committee in a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to legalize the switch to income taxes and the tax market on capital gains, i.e. taxation of capital rights. The reason for this bill, which the secretary of finance recommended for our last spring, is that in the Government Treaty, it is stated specifically that the change in taxation of music, Icelandic, and media is to be considered. The bill got a good report from us on a financial and business committee and we had a meeting with a number of people, including the U.S. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the head of state tax, the Editorial Union, Astrophysics, STEF, and the Union of Icelandic rural society. In addition, we received reviews from more sources, memos from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the head of the state tax. The National Association of Iceland and others sent us envelopes. The bill, however, suggests changes in income tax laws and laws on local taxes on capital income. The changes include paying to individuals who have the right to the rights of the authors of the established rights organisations to make money without subsidies, and that such payments become a standard payment due to the law on tax payment on capital gains. There was a lot of discussion about this in the moment. At any rate, the economic and business committee and the greater part agreed that there would be a reason to respond, but on the committee's discussion there were significant criticism that tax exchanges would vary depending on whether rights would be paid by established rights groups or not. Then there was a view that such a project would conflict with a principle of social equality and negative freedom. In the financial and economic memo for the Committee, after asking for it, the proposal is made to change the wording and the Committee decided to change the bill to the state that the criteria for payment will be removed from the established legal organisations. In this way the more part agrees with the suggestion found in the memo and suggests that the bill's range of values covers authors or other individuals entitled for later use after work, according to Article 1. God's Word, No. 73/1972 has been made available to the public, published or published, as indicated by paragraphs 2 and 3. Same song. So I further explain this, the more part emphasizes that the range of values of the bill applies exclusively to the range of tasks in the sense of Article 1. Authorial and only given that the project has been made accessible to the public in a sense of 3.◯5. mg 2.g. the same layer or protocol as it is defined in Article 3. Their law. By means of the following words, the plan is to set down the range of values of the bill, on the other hand, on the basis of income that falls to be made available, published or published, and on the other hand, in terms of earnings produced by use rather than income of copies or other similar items. With the bill, it was not intended to interfere with the principle of paying for works equal to any other sale of goods, such as sales of publishing rights, books, music, paintings, entrances on artistic events, and so on, it was considered to be a common gain for the individual. The same would be true if an adjustment was made to the majority of the segment agreed. For example, the revision of a book is thought to be according to the understanding of the greater portion for sale and therefore does not belong to a set of values of the bill. The same is true of buying a track for corruption and other direct incomes of sold copies. On the other hand, indirect revenues in the use of tasks below its range of values, such as on the basis of transporting a job in a radio or show, income due to the use of art on opportunities, income on the basis of available literature readings, etc. Finally, it should be noted that the value range of the bill is limited to the earnings of non-employee dishes, not to the earnings of lawmakers or non-employees. Since the revenues under the bill are counted as property income, according to Article 1. A national taxpayer's memo to the Committee suggests that a minister is particularly allowed to set up a regulation on further implementation of taxation income of the author's rights. The majority believe that such regulations are included in the terms of 1 mg. 121. g. a law on income taxes and encourages it to become new to explain further details about the implementation of taxation within the limits of the law. In the above, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill by means of a new proposal, which is faced with the Commission's list. Under the heading, President Óli Haraldsdóttir Bryndís Kállson, cosmitas Haraldsdótttteur, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, and Willum Þórsson Þrsson wrote: "I's daughter. So I put it more in human language than in the opinion of the committee and the text, in effect, we agree with what has often been discussed in this sector, that creating art is comparable to the structure of other assets, resulting in the use of such a project paying interest taxes, comparable to that of the person building houses and renting out the apartments, it pays off the same taxaturation and the capital taxation taxes. With this in mind, we are coming to meet and further encourage creative articles. Despite the fact that in the original bill the effect is that it may be a trust fund loss and then also a loss of income for rural society and that there is reason to believe that the comments made by the Icelandic Community were made on the subject, as the Union of Icelandic rural society is accustomed to making and taking care of the interests, I think, by all means, it was a number of our evaluations, that this may ultimately lead to an increase in income. This provides a competitive prenup for Iceland, for those who are doing good things in art and culture, to encourage them further to have a tax home in Iceland and to pay taxes to the Icelandic government fund. We feel that this is in full harmony with the vital importance of supporting creative articles and promoting the creation and culture of this country. So we suggest that the bill be approved as suggested in the Committee.
