ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, and environmental and resource ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u2	Mr. President. It is not impossible at the highest. With regard to contracts of a general labour market, a minister of finance may have differing views about the administration of governments, but both of us will likely agree that the government needs to take a big step in managing matters. First of all, the housing issues are a huge factor. The United States produced in the fall of a multijoined plan, now in connection with the council. Today, the government has published its suggestions, which in many respects are similar to those of great joy, but they are unsettled and late. So I ask a minister: How will he finance them? Secondly, the highest. The ASI concept of the multi-stage tax system was not well accepted by the secretary of finance. However, if such ideas were to be observed by the government, the union has not ruled out the possibility that we could support such ideas. So I'm curious to hear whether a unity is within the government on taking a look at these matters and meeting the labor movement or whether the highest response is possible. The media secretary of finance is the ultimate answer. Third, and perhaps most important, the decision of the Council of U.S.A., in the winter of 2016, gave rise to very low - quality blood in many of the countries and the labor movement. Some changes have certainly been made here at the council to meet the criticism, but they generally do not have enough. I believe that it is unavoidable to respond even more, so I ask a minister if he agrees with me. Finally, I would like to ask him if he would consider freezing the money of senators and Ministers longer than expected or if he had other ways that might be acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u3	A respectable president. Yes, it is a matter of concern. It is very important for society up to the completion of employment contracts, general markets, public markets. The treaty begins, and the government is often viewed. I believe the government has already been able to help by various measures, step by step. I mention actions related to the budget of the current year, such as a special increase in child improvement to the low income; changes in person discounts and limits between the upper and lower stages; increases in unemployment improvements over the past year; a very large rise in the government's capacity; prolongation of birth code - all of these are factors that concern the labour market. Here's a word. A member of the body of special housing and a recent report on what I would like to point out is not a government report but a cooperative relationship between the labour market parties and the government. We are working with the conclusions of this group - a very good work we have been in. She's been well received. We simply need to consider the financial cost of extraordinary suggestions. Some do not require much new expenses, such as. that we normally put in more data collections to know the exact space in the housing market at any given time. But others require money, such as. to increase the number of apartments in the general apartment system. I have to use a second answer to get into the taxes a little bit more, but I'd like to say with the advice that we've made a huge change there. We've actually, with a new bill, said that the 2016 CREEP decision is valid up to the middle of this year. The next three - year freezing is for all who hear the decision. [[The president calls.]] I think that's true, as a matter of fact. According to one U.S. senator, the new arrangement may need to be kept safe from those who sit at the council and take a salary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u4	Mr. President. I'm not going to belittle the fact that the government has done a lot of good things and steps in the right direction, but I'm afraid that's too small. We work for the people of the country and must have conversations. If we put into practice some ideas and are alone - they are not enough for people's minds, we need to take a closer look. In the case of child reform, the fact is that while the limit of the impairment has moved slightly, there are 12,000 who get pedophiles today than ten years ago. Today, more than five years ago, there is a total of 20,000 interest improvements. I'm asking you if the government hasn't considered the Union's change proposal that made it possible to spend more money on those actions. There's not even been a general debate, that I never think that the terms of any senators and elected agents should be on the basis of the country's lowest salary or on average. Even if you can show that this is freezing for three years, I repeat the question: I feel the highest. A minister would consider freezing it any longer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u5	A respectable president. First, only the tax matters asked in the previous inquiry. What I've always had with ASI's suggestions is that they're increasing the perimeter taxes. What I find to be a certain misdemeanor for many in connection with the building of the entire tax system is to take on a very high level of free income, and then low taxes for those who first enter the tax system of income tax. You have to make a choice between the two. I would have been rather a spokesman for having a lower income limit and starting off with a lower percentage, but this adjustment in the case actually makes us too much to increase the tax percentage in the middle of the cashiers. The child - reform system has been greatly strengthened in recent years. We're getting about that. The same donations as used to be used for growth improvements. We can make changes in income taxes so that they benefit especially those in the low - income groups and that we will do so and that our suggestions will be made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to say anything about the CREEP case beyond what we already have. This has to be an assessment point in the overall context of the objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u6	V.E.G. President. Well, earlier this week, it was the highest. Thus, the minister of education and culture would definitely agree that the loan system would be revised and that it would intend to raise the supply of LIN which is today more than 185,000 dollars. every month, an increase of the average holiday target today, by 930,000 dollars. In addition, this requirement should be increased up to 100% per year, i.e. From 96% to 100%. In fact, it was not completely expressed the magnitude of the increase, but ambition is great, and it is a cause for great rejoicing. It may not be the only minister of education who has shown great ambition in reevaluating the loan system, it did both Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter as a minister of education in her day and, more certainly, an Illugi - advised son of Gunnarsson, who, in effect, tolerated some earlier ideas, put in the form of very interesting ideas that included much requisition for students. A bill is being declared in the fall, and hopefully we'll be happy to do it. I'd like to ask, however, the highest. Financial Minister: As foretold, has this rise in student loans progressive? And if a financial minister could tell us what that would be like to be done, I would be grateful. Second, is a student's loan guaranteed to be in line with unemployment rates or minimum wage and to be paid 100% of the student's calculated extensions? Third, will the Ministry of Economics support the Ministry of Education in raising the credit card market and helping students to work during summers without significant reductions in their academic loans?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u7	A respectable president. This question is being asked about a case that has not been published, a case in progress. It's based on previous primes that have lived before a council but have not been paid off. I believe that the big change during the discussion was just in the time of the Illugi Gunnarsson as a minister of education for which it was decided to bring us in a very firm direction in student loans and in the support of students rather than completely rely on this oscillating subsidion system of interest to which we have been up to this point. I think it's a very progressive move. This is a very fundamental change in my mind. Here at the council, opinions have been changed, including the factor involved in borrowing. that even those who are not in dire need of support can be strengthened, but there are other factors. I can't really get into material discussions about all the issues involved. With regard to financial support, we in itself have nothing else to do with today in this context but the relevant financial policy. It's not that the budget is in the finance Department, it's here at the council. We need to take a deeper discussion on how the changes in the system will be financed when the overall proposal is established and how the Ministry of Education intends to establish priorities from the understatement of the Ministry. It's simply not becoming a test of these matters that the senator asks me about, how the Ministry of finance intends to respond to non-profit proposals from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u8	Mr. President. I understand the highest. The secretary of finance is cautious, and in fact, it is his role in this matter as well as in anyone else. I'm not secretive that I'd wanted to see and hear unambiguous support in that situation, like the highest. Prior this week, the Minister of Education made it very clear that the education platform will be increased, the holiday goal will be increased. That's what was proclaimed. But I would like to agree with that at the highest. A minister that it's important to jump into the student loan system. I point to the fact that many of what appeared on the bill from the Illugi Gunnarsson was very interesting and would push us closer to the North American system. No question about it. But there are also critical factors. I hope that the bill that we receive this fall will include real requisitions for students as we enter our modern era. But I still state that I still have the highest support. The secretary of finance for reimbursement of student loans, and for the next fall, the payoff target will be up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u9	A respectable president. You don't quite know what to say. Here comes the minister of the jury, claiming to have a definite focus, and other ministers are up here asking if they will support the Minister in following the emphasis at his office. I'll do it very strongly. I don't think it matters whether it's the secretary of finance or anyone who's asked about it. I'm a minister of education for these changes. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator agrees to make changes in support systems with students. It has to do with the production and the operating market for employment so that it is possible to improve their status at the same time as they are studying, and the direct strength will certainly do so. It also matters, and it is an important part of the changes in my mind, encouraging to complete study of time, that it can affect government support in the event that progress in education is not expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u10	Mr. President. Recently, there have been a number of planned ideas about changing the structure of the financial system and other aspects of the process, and some questions arise that I think are important for us to be answered. I'd like to ask the highest. The four financial secretary of four questions, all of which have only two possibilities. I hope he can help me understand these things. The first question is: Which governments are in government so independent of their jobs that it would have been impossible for a minister of finance or someone else in the chain to interfere in any way with the sales of Borg at their own time, or are the governments of banks so self-involved that they cannot compete with one another? Other: Which is the opportunistic cost of having 420 billion dollars in banks so huge that property is released to prevent an economic accident, or is it necessary to place some 500 billion people in an investment reserve to prevent an economic accident? Third: Whether a bank rule has become so good in Iceland that there is no reason to fear another bank crash, or it is so dangerous that the state has properties in its banks that it is normal. For example, before another crash, the secretary of finance dislodged that property? Fourth: Which government debt has become so low that investments on infrastructures, such as the road system that have sat on the side for years, or is the status of a government fund so bad that only the necessary roads can be taken back and transfused in the form of roads? It would be good to have some kind of input into these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u11	A respectable president. The government of the state banks is a law-enforcement policy, I mean, part-friendly law, but also according to the special arrangement we've come up with. As discussed in a financial report on a white book on the future of the financial system, the senator is continuing to carry a suit on the paying matter. I think it is time for the senator to understand how the Minister of finance should have intervened in the Cities because he has lied about the intervention of the secretary of finance. The question is, Does this mean that there is a huge amount of opportunities involved in tying this huge amount of money in the banks? I think it's totally undisputed, and it's not in any direct connection to the idea of a national treasure that's thought over the long term. This is not so that we can either build up our national funds or own our banks. This is not in my mind, nor is it in the real world. Rather, it is the idea of a national treasure that is completely unrelated to whether it is necessary for the State to invest much of its money in financial companies in the country. Government debt has dropped very significantly, and at the same time, our growth has been possible in order to increase ininvestment, resulting in today's effort to finance the road system. We set out immediately during the first few steps to increase investment in the road system in Iceland, in transport. Similarly, social infrastructure is a major source of strength. Since 2015, budgeting has increased from more than 4% to less than 10% per year. That's because the state's position has improved a lot, so we're on better options to invest. [[The president calls.]] I'll come to the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u12	Mr. President. I thank you for much better answers than I expected, of course, only two of the four questions. It sounds to me that banks can be completely competitive because their governments are independent. It's very good to hear it. At any rate, there should be no reason to dispose of those assets very fast or faster than reasonable amounts. It is also very good to hear that the treasure of the Kingdom is a good thing to say that expenses may not be necessary, that there are other ways to build up. This is very positive news for me. I look forward to the second two answers. My concerns have simply turned to the fact that much has been done to try to convince people in the country that they have too good to complain, but at the same time that the state funds, the status of the system, are so bad that nothing can be done positive. A lot of positive things have happened, and I don't slow it down. But we must start to realize whether we are rich in land or poverty, whether we can afford to do things well or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u13	A respectable president. The White Book discusses competition for financial services in Iceland, and it argues that a variety of holdings could result in an increase in the competition of the Icelandic financial market. The evidence that I see is presented. A senator doubts and believes that independent governments in state banks are a good way to ensure great competition between banks. I think we're here and we'll continue to disagree. The possibility of a bank crash was asked. I don't think a bank crash is a danger right now, but people have to be careful if they're going to predict the future far. I believe in itself that we all have tools and tools to protect or build caution on such harms without direct property. That's in my mind the main thing. In terms of the ideas that have been floating lately about furtherinvestment and particularly in the road system, the main question is whether we want to speed up progress or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u14	A respectable president. The government is on billions of dollars to be used to meet a crown of disability. The government is lying on them like a worm on gold and does not seem to intend to give them to those who are in need of the money. Poor farms have died recently, and after more than six months there seems to be no chance of doing anything. The explanation is that they lack money. These are the financial resources taken from society's worst in life, people who live under it, people who either need to be placed on their marriage mate or social benefits. I'm asking, has this been financed? And if not, why? At the same time, I'd like to point out that collective contracts are in place. The state has found the right forward, and there are 392,000 dollars, which are an artist's pay inaccessible. It's cool, it's really good, and it's great that we've already found it. But I ask, aren't we going to come up with the same level of crowns, incompetent, desperate, older citizens, unemployed? So that's a minimum wage in the country, isn't it? If we saw that we would do so, we would give a lot of people the opportunity to work. There must be a policy for everyone to win. But while we have a crown against a crown, we condemn people in a poverty trap. We'll cut some compensations, such as death damages, mothers' compensations, a father's salary, and then there's a dollar against the impairment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u15	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator when he says that a dollar to a dollar is bad. As a matter of fact, we've made a system change in our pensions, and we've abolished this team of reforms. However, it must be remembered when we discuss the specific progressives that the deficiency rule applies to the fact that historical history was intended as a replacement for those who were in the worst position. This was at the time the injection of a government government that was to be directed particularly to those in the weakest position. For it not to spread to everyone, including those with employment or other services, it required a severe decrease and a daily allowance against a dollar's impairment. If we hadn't had a cent against a dollar when the special supply was made at the time - long before I was in the government - the funds would not have used those in the weakest position. This must be remembered. Now that we're in an active conversation, and the Minister of Social Affairs is leading them to work today, in order to make a basic change in the group of benefits it will not be done without other changes being considered, otherwise we would be doing nothing more than subtracting support from those who are in the worst position. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that the only thing that will be done is to cut off a cent from a cent in return means to be less used for the same amount of money to this group, unless you are about to fund the financial cost of making it available to everyone, who was originally conceived for those who are in the worst position. [[The president calls.]] Then we're just talking about something completely different, and we need to be worthy of it. We need to ask ourselves, " Is this the most important operation that we have? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of finance answers, but he spoke of people he has set up in a poverty trap, that people can't support themselves. I just can't accept that there's somewhere, just because, like, things like that. We have to solve this. This sucks. I'm gonna ask him again, "Do you think he's 392,000? for everyone, physically impaired, not just a great solution? Shouldn't we have the constitution as a role model, that everyone is equal to the law? Are we not obliged to see to it that people can live a decent life in their reward, that they have for housing, not just for their housing, and that they need to starve? For my part, I say, we have an obligation to make sure that everyone does. Then I would also like to know if the funds have been financed. What is to be done with these billions of dollars, who are still sitting on the floor?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u17	A respectable president. You know, about the farm defects, like the colic. A senator calls it, so I think we need to find out who the personal rights of the individual were. When found out - but the U.S.A. has said that each case must be considered separately - it does not in itself matter because it contains only legal rights that we must meet. It's just a promise now. That is what people of the State have, and they are counted by a treasure, whether it has been financed or not. We are awaiting the conclusion of this consideration of the total budget. As to what is appropriate progress in this country, I think we can spend many days discussing it in particular. I'm asked if 392,000 is right. In itself, I have no grounds to say so specifically, but these are official statistics. There are, of course, criteria that give a number of factors, and I think people's situation is very different. For some, this is no doubt too small, and for others it is possible to survive. In the foundation, we need to agree to try to maximise the value of our country so that we can lean on one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u18	Mr. President. We know that there is no shortage of traders. This is evident regularly in the media, the lack of industry, and as headlines in magazines, etc. The Government Treaty speaks of not promoting industry and projects through large education in the interests of varied employment and better society. Of course, these are noble goals and statements, but if they are sufficient to make changes in order to increase their interest in industrial education, time must be revealed. I certainly hope so. The management director of the Industrial Association has called for the legitimate respect of industry studies and for the country's change of viewpoint against industrial education. We also know that a much lower percentage of students in this country will register in industry than in the European Union, numbers from 2007, reminds me, shows that there are only 14% here on land at the same time as there are 50% in the European Union. What I want to ask the highest. Minister to himself: How is it that a minister sees to live up to what is presented in the Treaty, and how is the cooperation between the Ministry and the Ministry of Education in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This highlights a very important matter that we now discuss and move in the right direction, but I believe that we could do much better. Industrial and industrial education simply provides the basis for innovation in the country. This government and the rest, and the council, have set priorities for the development of the entire educational system, of which it is to be made available for industrial education as well. I believe that bill is what it is. paritaprevir The Masters of Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir also made a difference, not only in terms of silence and action, but also regarding the change of outlook as well. A senator mentioned, and I myself am very busy. I think that in part the problem is simply our own attitude toward this education and often the attitude of parents when children are choosing to study. Of course, it's colored by the way we've created the system, that it's always safer to complete a student's test, etc., even if kids have long already decided that they intend to pursue their industrial education and work in that field in the future. I think a change of viewpoint is a key factor in this, and it's how we all speak, including parents, and it's also important that the system is not that we are really indiscriminate or raise another education at the expense of industrial education. New creationism and education will need to talk and talk. It is a key element that what is said and proposed in these policies falls into one. It's important that we work together. I can only say that I agree with the emphasis. A senator mentions and reiterates the fact that industrial education and industry are the basis for innovation. [[The president calls.]] I think we can do much better to link these factors together, that university, professional, and school systems also work together. [[The president calls.]] It all matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and take heart of what she said. As for the change of viewpoint, I fully agree with a minister that this is also important in the homes, among the parents, to arouse interest in trade. It matters. I agree with that. There's something else I'd like to come in for. A study at the University of Bifrost last year reminds me, asking about attitudes toward trade among students and those who have been working in this article. The result is quite remarkable, that many unskilled people were working in these articles, even speaking languages in their own country of origin, i.e. Foreign employees. And it was common to this interview group in the study that everyone was very concerned that people were working in this sector that did not have proper rights and that the study was actually being reimbursed in this regard. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How is official monitoring of this procedure? It is very important to me that individuals who have legal rights work in these articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u21	Mr. President. First, a little more specific about what is important. We need to look for the building up of our study and how it can be developed, which, of course, requires constant consideration. Then you need to strengthen the outside by training and training, and that's what you might have to do. A senator also mentions here. Adding and simplifying the bioavailability of students is required for study and work. We know that there are some necks of bottle when people finish their education, but they have to get on a contract to get the right law. We have very powerful, very strong companies for these industrial companies who are very careful about this. We also know that there are jobs done by people who do not have these laws. Of course, we have also needed them because of the lack of such qualifications. It is a labour agency that will supervise this operation. Exactly how I would need to find out more about this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u22	Mr. President. I deliver a report from the Council of Northern Ireland on the Norwegian partnership in 2018. The report is too long for me to be able to speak from every word to word, but it is available on the Web site of the Generals, and I encourage most people to study the report and the activities of the Council of Northern America. It was mainly noted at the 2018 Council of Northern Congress that there was a significant increase in translation into conferences and other material related to the work of the Council of the Union of England, Icelandic, and Finnish as well as the interpretation of the Council's meetings. From January 1, 2020, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Finnish, and Icelandic will be defined as the official language of the Northern Council of England, but in the Copenhagen office of the Council, Scandinavian languages will still be employed. The decision to make these changes was followed by a proposal made together by Finland and Iceland in 2016 to turn Finnish and Icelandic into a work tongue in the Northern Council to the Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian. Iceland's National Department worked against the Norwegian Minister's plans to cut down the budgets for four Norwegian research institutions, including the Norwegian volcano site in Iceland. It had been proposed that the North Forsk Agency in Norway should be assigned to assign the capital in the form of a project developers. Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, chief. The Minister of Education and Culture, and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, a fellow associate minister of the Northern States, adopted the views of the Icelandic Council of the Northern Council, as well as other members of the Northern Council. So the proposal for the cut-off was not available for treatment in the Northern Council, and the Norwegian Minister's Committee has reviewed the case. The spring council of the Northern Council was held in Akureyri, dedicated to the affairs of the sea. In September, the Northern Council held its meeting in Nuuk, the capital of Greenland, the first time that such a Norwegian meeting was held in that country. In the United States alone, two of the five prizes of the Northern Council were given in connection with the Northern Council in Oslo at the end of October. The Auður of Ava Ólafsdóttir received the literary salary of the Northern Country Council for the novel Ar and Benedikt Erlingsson received the film award for the film-fiction woman to go to war. In 1952, the Northern Council was founded, and it is the cooperative site of Congress in the Northern countries. Islands, Faeroe Islands, and Greenland are involved. The Council has been in the council since its establishment. The Northern Council meets with two conferences a year and concludes on the Norwegian matter during a brief spring meeting in one day and during a traditional three - day assembly in the fall. In addition, the Northern Council gathers three times a year as committees. The Council of the north is responsible for a number of Norwegian projects taken by members of Parliaments, committees, groups, or local departments of the Council. The Council of the North has the proposal and review right to capital granted to norse cooperation every year. Members of the Northern Council are members of Congress who are elected by the Norwegian Parliament in accordance with the recommendations of members of Congress. The council has a seat of 87 agents. The Congress of Norway and Sweden owns 20 representatives, Finland 18 representative, Agent Denmark 16 of the United States of Iceland, two agents, Greenland, and two representatives of the island of Ireland. The ship of the delegations, also called Branches, will reflect the strength of political parties at the councils. The President of the Council of the North comes from every state every five years. During the traditional Council of Northern Congress on the October/November monthly, it is discussed with suggestions and direct the Council to the national or Norwegian Ministers Committees. Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers of the Northern Union provide report to the Northern Council and Ministers or Prime Ministers answer queries during a special question period. The budget of the coming service year is also set up at the council, with committees and trust positions in it. In the spring of spring, special emphasis is given on a subject. In the Northern Council, five groups operate: equals, center men, right men, Norwegian freedom, and Norwegian left green. Groups form a common view on individual matters and choose members of the committee. In the second place, the work of the Northern Council is based on the National Focal Points for Member States. The Northern Council's topic work in 2018 was largely carried out by four professional committees, as well as the prime committee, i.e. Knowledge and cultural committees, economic growth and development committees, sustainable committees and welfare committees. Between councils, the Presidency Committee directs the work of the Governing Body, refers to committees, or cancels them. The Presidency Committee also conducts foreign and security matters as well as contact between the Council of the North and other international institutions. The Commission then reviews the annual accounts of the Council and institutions of the Northern Union. Finally, a panel is assembled to make a recommendation for committees and confidential positions by the Council of the Northern Country. Mr. President. The National Council of Iceland was thus appointed at the beginning of 2018: President Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdótsdóttir, Council of the Youth Party, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, who stands, vice president of the United States, Collin Ottar's son of Proppé, and Steinunn Þóra, Council of the Left Fights, Vilmill of the Year's House of Independence, the Ísleifsson Iconsson, the Party of Flocks, and Árnadóttir Colbröll, the House of the Group of the United States. The Watchmen were Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Lilja Réney Rafney Magnúsdóttir ◯ Green volunteer, Braunsr Níelsson, General Assembly of the Independence Party, Ingi In Kristinsson, National Congress, Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, United States Congress, Willum Þór Þórsson, Group of the Fundament of the Fundaults, and Þordur Sæmundsson, members of the Central Party. On December 7, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, a member of the Gangs, took the seat of Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun as the chief man, and Sæland-Endand took the place of Guðmundur Ingi as vice. Þorsteinsson was the secretary of the Northern Council of Iceland in 2018. The representatives of the Council of Northern Ireland in committees and offices were elected during the January meeting of the Council of the Northern Council of England in Stockholm, 23,◯24. January, 2018. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Gunnarsdótttir and Oddný Harðardóttir Ólafur was also appointed as vice president of the National Commission of Monitoring. Vilhjálmur Árnason and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé took their place on a sustainable committee. On October 29 to November 1, at the Council of the Northern Council of Development and Development, Steinunn, the Year's Árnadóttir, left the Presidency Committee on Presidency and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé moved from a sustainable committee to a welfare committee. At the same time, it was decided that Kolbrún Kolbönóttir of the Year's Árnadóttir would be formally removed from the welfare committee on the Board of Knowledge and Culture, but the change went into effect on January 1, 2019. In addition, Iceland's representatives were represented by the Council of the Northern Union of the Council of the Norse Institutes. The Þóra Árnadóttir was in the management of the Norwegian Culture Fund and attended her meeting at ThorsLarla 29,◯30. May and November 30, Copenhagen. She also attended the Fund's policy meeting held in Copenhagen on February 8th. Vilhjálmur Árnason was on the National Investors Commission and attended her meeting in Helsinki, March 9. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was the head of Council of the Northland at the Summit of the Baltic Sea (BSPC). She attended a meeting of the Basel Committee in Brussels on February 22, and the 27th annual meeting of the Church of Mary, held in the Aland Islands, 26,◯28. August. Silja Dögg was also on behalf of the Council of Prime Ministers of the Northern Country, in Helsinki on matters held on May 8. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was the representative of Generalis in BSPC. He attended the annual meeting in August and meeting of the Constant Committee at the Koli National Park in Finland, 14,◯15. May 13 and November. The Northern Council of Iceland met eleven times this year. January (twice), February, April (twice), June, September, October, November, and December (twice) were met. The Department's meetings were offered representatives of the Foreign Office of State, the National Society, the Northern Council of Youth, the information services Hello North countries, the Norwegian House, and other individuals and organizations associated with Norwegian cooperation. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, associate minister of the Northlands, met three times in the Northern Council of Iceland during the year, in April, September, and October. The Presidential Committee of the Northern Council is the highest decision - making authority between the council meetings and can make decisions on their behalf. It directs and complies the work of the Council of the North, responsible for total political and administrative emphasis, foreign and defense, and implementing the Council's budget and budget. The Presidential Committee of the Northern Council is the highest decision - making authority between the council meetings and can make decisions on their behalf. It directs and complies the work of the Council of the North, responsible for total political and administrative emphasis, foreign and defense, and implementing the Council's budget and budget. In 2018, the prime committee was appointed president, vice president, and up to 15 members elected at the Council of the Northern States. The president and the Vice President are from the country that will be hosted by a traditional assembly meeting in the fall of the year they are doing their job. All states in the North and all groups have members on the Committee to Presidency. The Presidency Committee can appoint members or work groups, an audience and a check-up on specific issues for a specific period of time, such as a financial group, which will discuss with the Norwegian Minister on the budget. The Presidency Committee is also responsible for harmonization of relationships with the National Assembly and other regional and international institutions. A total of six meetings were held by the committee in 2018. Six proposals adopted by the Presidency Committee were adopted as Council of the European Commission's proposal: on international nuclear disarmament, on increasing normatic cooperation in North America, on the norological effects and cooperation with the G20, on the norological impact assessment of EU legislation, on increasing nobility on overall protection, health and distribution security plans, and on the budget of the Norwegian Minister of the 2020 Committee. At that time, a prime committee three issues made decisions on internal issues: on languages in the Northern Council, about a Norwegian flag day on March 23 and about changes in Council procedures. The Knowledge and Culture Committee of the National Institutes of Culture, Research and Education, Basic and High School, Adult and Common Education, including languages sharing, new media, development, and innovation in education. The Committee is also involved in matters related to civil society and the forces and activities of volunteers. Sports, languages, movies and media, general and varied art and culture, as well as culture of children and young people in the fields of the Norwegian Knowledge and Culture Committee. The committee met five times this year. Five proposed proposals from knowledge and cultural committees were adopted as Council of the Northern Country of the Union during the year: for the support of students at risk, of mutual recognition of judicial action due to ultimatum, support for the project Stories from the Ice, on cultural reporting and the testing of the possibility of developing a mutual PhD. The Norwegian Economic Economic and Development Committee is involved in the affairs and activities of the work and work environment, employment, trade, industry, energy, policy-control, transport and safety. The Commission also deals with issues related to financial and employment policy - including the framework of research, production and trade, followed by free mobility of markets and markets in the North countries. Building and building policy, communication and information technology are also in the work fields of the Norwegian Economic Growth and Development Committee. The committee met five times this year. Four suggestions provided by economic growth and development committees were adopted as Council of the North countries during the year: on membership in trade unions, on national consultation committees on administrative barriers in the North countries, on transport policies in the North countries and on the well- working conditions of sailing. The Norwegian Sustainable Commission is working on environmental and natural protection and natural resources - including the use of natural resources in agriculture, marine outlets and forestry. Climate is also an important part of the work of the Committee - including the consequences of climate change, especially in northern regions. Other members of the Committee include consumer rights, fishing management, agriculture policies, food, nuclear security, biodiversity and sustainableity. Nine proposals adopted by Sustainable Committees were adopted as Council of the European Council of the Environment: on the National Institutes of Forests (two agreed proposals) of a joint nobility on a environmental port, on a review of a decision to accept ports for shipping of waste from ships, on less emissions from shipping in the Northern countries, on plastic particles in drinking water, on the impact of the Northland's International Convention on Biodiversion, on the development of the impacts of the international impacts of the UN's international Convention on biodiversity and on the cooperation of the environment and climate change. The Norwegian Health Committee stresses the North American welfare model. The committee comes in, even. for situations that involve child care, young and elderly, disability, alcohol, drugs, and abuse. There is also a topic related to equality, civil rights, democracy, human rights, and the fight against crime. Implementation of immigrants, migrations, and refugees is also under the committee, as is the case with the indigenous population. The committee met five times this year. Five suggestions provided by a well-being committee were adopted as Council of Northern Europe during the year: on related cohesion treatment for preservation of separation and separation, on a joint Norwegian equally payeration, on job equality, on the prevention of job colds, on harmonization legislation on gay people in the North countries, on increasing normic agreements in health matters, and on the implementation of a non-political partnership on disabled people's issues. As you can hear, the topic of the committees is broad and relevant for the Norwegian community and very important for Iceland to participate in this field. The Council of Nations was observed on behalf of the Parliament, with a work that is funded from the joint funds of the Northern countries. The Commission also oversees matters that involve the interpretation of agreements for Norwegian cooperation, for the work of the Council of Northern Nations, and for other internal issues. In this regard, five meetings were held in 2018. The Environment Committee of the Northern Council prepares and offers suggestions for meetings and secondary elections on the Presidency Committee. No Icelandic senator served as member of the Committee in 2018. President. The report, which is on the front line and can also be found on the Council of the Council of Northern Ireland, provides a detailed discussion of January meetings in Stockholm, the Council of Northern Congress in Akureyri, a meeting of the Council of Prime Ministers in Norway, a meeting of the Northern Country Council in Nuuk, the Northern Council of the Oshol, a meeting of the Presidency Committee in Echo, the Council of the Council of the Baltic States in Hamburg, the Prize of Northern Congress, and the focus of the Northern Union at 2020, with the emphasis on the issues of the year 2020, climate, government, and democracy. President. I have concluded, but I would like to point out the importance of cooperation among the northern countries for us Icelanders. That is one of the most important international cooperations, so it is very important that Icelandic senators be active there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u23	President. Thank you. A senator, an active chairman of the Icelandic Council of Northern Ireland, well-historic. When the lights began to flash, I thought that we would have more time to do this, for much of it is taking place on this team like that. A senator went well over. The list of all the projects that we share in this cooperation almost surprised me, and I have been working on these matters. It is extremely important, President, that we do this work well because good cooperation with our closest neighbors, both in the Western Council and in the National Council of Iceland, is a key to our foreign policy; to have the best and near cooperation with the people closest to us in a geographic and ideological sense. I, myself, have had the wisdom to sit on two committees in the Northland Council, as it were. paritaprevir For example, Oddný G. A tough Harðardóttir arrived in her report, one of the Sustainable Committee and recently on the welfare committee. There is no question about the magnitude of the problem that all the countries face. I sit there and here in this hall, and in the committees of Generalis, and I see that to a large extent, we are dealing with the same issues in the whole job. I have also served at the Council of Parliaments of the Baltic Council, BSPC. There we are again working on the same concerns, the marine environment, how to reduce pollution when it comes to shipping and what goes into the sea. So this cooperation is of utmost importance, and we should be proud to be a voice on its equal base. I'd also like to introduce something that is not least important, and in fact, I've thought that it's perhaps the most important part of the northern community, which may be the case. An active head of Iceland came in here at the very end of the report, a cooperation between the northern countries on the removal of administrative barriers. This may be the work that people experience most in themselves without even being recognized. The ability to cross countries, maintain rights, and if it becomes clear that national rights are not compatible, it can be specifically directed inconsistencies in the process of putting over a group and staff who do their work to eliminate these governmental barriers. This is the key to the environment we want, that we in the North countries can move around and between countries at will. - I was almost done saying, Mr. President, where I'm talking about northern society, but where the matter is Icelandic, I could just sit. In the northern community, people have been stressed, that they are not about committees, and that they speak beautifully at times. In this work many important things are important, especially those of young people. That's where we've been stuck together in Iceland. Sad to say, there have been some ideas about surgery. In many parts of the world, it is possible to wonder whether such projects are too much to be given or where to save. However, we have made sure that this place will be a special guard of all challenges to young people. In particular, I look to such things as Nordjebb, where youths can go from country to country, do various jobs, and try to live in one of our neighboring countries. Finally, I want to agree with what. An active chairman of the cohesion and solidarity of Iceland. As we work together in this field, we find that we speak in one voice. We agree on Iceland's issues and the emphasis we want on this job. To me, the Northern Union is a cornerstone in Iceland's foreign politics. We are to keep our focus in foreign politics on this peaceful agreement, conversation, and cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u24	V.E.G. President. I come up here just to say the words that were said here by my colleague and thank you for the acting chairman, the Oddný Harðardóttir, a great deal for the report she made earlier. First, it is very necessary cooperation, and it is rewarding and very important. What I might want to add to what has been said here is to thank especially for all the assistance we've received in the Northern Council of Iceland. In particular, I would like to thank you for the interpretation that we have enjoyed and for the staff who are very comfortable with our work. I'd especially like to thank the secretary of the Iceland Department, Þorsteinsson, for the very good outside, and how he has led us through this current drive. I just wanted to mention it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u25	A respectable president. I present the General Report of the Western Council for 2018. I'm picking on a large but detailed version of this report is available both in written form and on the Generals web. Before starting my report, I would like to look back on a brief historical chart. The Council of the Faeroe Islands, the National Assembly of Greenland and the World Council established the Western Council of Parliaments in Nuuk, on Greenland, on September 24, 1985, as a cooperating site for the three Parliaments. It was thus a formalized partnership with the countries, often known as the West Witches, or Westnorden. The foundation of the Council was primarily based on national background in various areas, both in the context of historical and cultural heritage, and in the context of common environmental, transport and economic interests. At the Council's main meeting in 1997, its name was changed to the Western Council when a new work contract was approved. At the same meeting, the aims of the network were sharpened, new work rules accepted, decided to set up the Council's office and the management board. The Council of the Telepaths, the General Assembly of the Icelanders and the Greenlandan National Assembly each selects six representatives for a session in the Westnoric Council, a total of 18 members. The objective of the Western National Council is to work in the best interests of the West-Northern, to protect resources and cultural heritage of the North Atlantic, to promote cooperation between the government and the national administrations of the West-Northern countries on important issues, and to be a contingency between Western partners. The Western Council has concluded on a number of issues, including environment, resource and transport, rescue and security, Northern health, culture, sports and youth issues, to name just a few. A annual meeting has the highest decision force in the council. The Western Council Presidency Committee organises the annual meeting projects and activities of the Council. The prime committee consists of one representative from every country, the president, the first vice president, and the other vice president. Prescientity is divided each year between the three countries. The Council can also appoint specific work committees, as it has been, on individual matters. A annual meeting agrees with conclusions on a number of issues that are then proposed to the National Assembly as a conquistador proposal. It's remarkable. Acceptance of these conclusions is directed to the appropriate advisers who are responsible for implementing conclusions. Each annual meeting will decide what theme theme will be considered the following year. In 2002, a signed agreement was signed on the cooperation of the Western Council and the governments of the West Nile. The contract required that the three countries make a report of the implementation of the current conclusions to the annual meeting of the Council. In addition, a prime committee would have the opportunity to meet with the legislatures of the countries in connection with the Northern Council each year. As far as possible, ministers of the country also took part in the discovery of the Western Council. Often it has been done, but busy people sometimes stop. The Western Council also operates on the progress of its targets through active participation in the Norwegian and European cooperation and Arctic cohesion. In 2006, a contract signed by the Western Council and the Northern Council was signed. The contract gives the Western Council and the Northern Council mutual participation rights to each other's meetings and shape the partnership further. The contract does so even. it is possible that the conclusions of the Western Council should be taken into consideration in the Northern Council. In 2011 the Western and Northern Council held their first joint conference on safety at sea in the North Atlantic. Another conference was held in 2013, discussing the use of marine resources and the third in 2016 on sustainable regional development in the north. All of these are important interests in the area. In 2008, an agreement between the Western Council and the European Parliament had to hold a regular meeting of information and consultation. In addition, the Westnoric council has an audience at the Arctic Council and a council conference on Arctic languages. Finally, in 2016 a cooperative agreement with the Ringboard of the North reached the North. A respectable president. Last year, Iceland's Department of the Western Council held nine meetings in which current issues and preparation for a joint meeting of the Westnoric Council were being discussed. The Western Council meets twice a year, for a theme conference in January and for a annual meeting in August or early September. The Western Council's theme conference last year was held in Ilulissat, Greenland, January. The theme conference's products were opportunities and challenges for tourism in Western countries. A lecturer noted that both the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlanders had benefited from the popularity of Iceland among tourists. The lecturers even redesigned. the possibility of increasing travel services with new airports decided to build up Nuuk and Ilulissat. Challenges were the primary means of distributing the pressures to protect the natural world and its way of life. The increased cost of tourism, e.g., should not be overlooked. for enforcation of infrastructure. At an additional annual meeting together with the theme conference, the Western Council agreed to set up a special committee on the issues of the north. That was done, and a representative of Iceland in that special committee is Brís Haraldsdóttir. A project proposal was also adopted on the topic of the Council's focus at the Arctic level. In the project proposal, it was decided that the Westernological Council would highlight increased research on the use of drug drugs in the north, in cooperation with the company Research and Analysis. Their success has brought to the attention of many countries, and in fact, the company is providing services in many lands. The project proposal assumed that a special task would be set up at the Arctic level and that the Western Council's Office would handle project management and assist in the implementation of the project. A prime committee and annual meeting covered the matter a great deal during the year, and it was considered as a means of bringing attention to research and analysis at a meeting of the Icelandic Presidency in the North Pole this fall. A annual meeting of the Westnoric Council was held at the Council of the Thorsla in the Faeroe Islands 4,◯5. September, for the second time, a annual meeting was held in the local Assembly Hall. Foreign Ministers of the three countries participated in a telecommunications meeting that featured the resolution of the Western New Nile into the new reality of the international politics. The theme came from the 2016 Western Council's resolution to hold a common conference in which this situation would be crushed. This convention was held in Reykjavík yesterday. The Foreign Ministers of the United States represented a seminar on the issue of the North Sea's Ringboard in October, and it was decided at a annual meeting that yesterday's Western - American Conference would be placed under the issue of several seminars that would be opened to the public. The conference was very successful and informative. It can be found on the Vestnoric Web site. At a annual meeting, two conclusions were agreed on both of the Iceland Department. In the first, governments in the Western Netherlands were encouraged to investigate the potential for increased teamwork in the sports field. It concluded that it was important for Western children to get to know each other in the field of sports and culture. It would be an ideal setting for young people to get to know and meet in an upbuilding manner. This could be done, e.g. by promoting Western sports events for children and adolescents in cooperation with the sports authorities or the sports organization in these countries. Another conclusion called after the development of a research site on the future of Western languages in a digital world. The conclusion highlighted the threat of smaller languages following the digital revolution. It would be important to cultivate language technology to strengthen the position of the languages. In Iceland, professional work has begun in that direction. The mind of a representative of the Western Committee is in cooperation with the good people. The conclusions will be presented as suggestions for understanding the Council at the spring council, which is currently being held. The Western Council Presidency Committee, consisting of presidents of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands, had their annual meeting with the European Parliament's delegation in February. The European Parliament expressed their interest in learning about Icelandic law on the equivalent of a workaturation, which went into effect in January 2018. The meeting also discussed the import of trade products to the European Union and the affairs of the north. Then, at the end of October, a prime committee of the Council of the 70th Council of the Northern Country of Oslo was involved in meeting with the councils of the West-Northlands and the prime committee of the Northern Council. A discussion at that meeting included procedures to prevent plastic pollution in the seas, northern issues, and the protection of languages during a digital revolution. A respectable president. The director of the Western Council, Inga Dóra Markussen, retired at the beginning of the year, and in January a prime committee from the assassination Sigurður the Ólafsson of Olafsen. Following the introduction of the Western Council to an audience at the North Pole in 2017, the terms of the Council's Member States have increased and, according to the Western Council's conclusions, increased funds were being made to hire another employee in the council's office to half rank. In December 2018, ad was observed by an employee in half position and will be hired in the following weeks. This indicates the increased emphasis of the Western Council on the affairs of the north. The National Department of Iceland proposed five suggestions for action during the spring months of 2018 based on Western Council resolutions from the 2016 / 2017 annual meeting of the Council. The five decisions were adopted at the General Assembly in April. A respectable president. I have made some comments about the activities of the Western Council in 2018, which was flourishing and practical in many ways. When I sat down in the Western Council, I did not have much knowledge of the operation, but I realize how important it is for all the Western countries. We're facing a lot of threats. We all know the climate discussion, there are environmental issues, there are languages in those countries, there are marine security and traffic, and there are interests that connect us, jobs and other factors. There are many things that rock the countries together. Iceland is in a position to be a big brother in the partnership, so it's a job to find out how difficult it is. We had experienced that this cooperation is extremely important to the Greenlandites and the Faeroes. In their national or national situation, it is important to them, for this is the scene where countries have and in many respects a window into the world without having the monarchy breathing into their neck language. I realize there's a lot of work to be done. During a recent meeting of the Western Council, which is actually being conducted in Iceland these days, meeting officials took a small view of the role and future of the Western Council and become curious about what comes out of it. They agreed that the importance of the Western Council grew. One of the questions we wondered about was: " Would we, if we were wondering, would we start a Western advice today? No doubt we would, even more powerful and more readily, in all our activities than we do today. Finally, I'd like to thank the staff of the Generals for all the work and the assistance that the Western Council is allowed to enjoy here. It is of great value to have qualified people who are well acquainted with localities in this region. We hope that the Western powers will last indefinitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u26	Mr. President. I wanted to ask about the theme conference held in Greenland at the end of January of last year and about the travel services in the Western countries and perhaps especially in the Greenlandns. That interested me. You are thinking of building tourism in Greenland by building aviators and other parts. I wanted to ask about the security issues, communications, and transportation issues in general that relate to these issues, how the discussion was about that subject, and particularly security. A man looks at cruise ships that sail far north, we have the Scoresbysund. There, the traffique grows from cruise ships, it grows, and it grows. I'm asking why. A senator whether or not this was discussed with the theme conference as well as with what has to do with the security issues north of Iceland and especially on the East Coast and on telecommunications. It's also interesting to see the numbers. The fine report of the Western Council shows that today, some 37,000 tourists in Greenland and Greenland predict that by 2040, the tourists could increase by half of them. How do they view the importance of this? Then there is the factor that you have heard, mentioned in the report, that the local population does not seem to be working in the article, that these are a lot in foreign tourism, which brings its own equipment and its employees so that the economic effects do not reach the relevant community. Was this discussed at the theme conference? This is also what you think of at home, what remains in our community, the value created by e.g. travel service. This interests me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting inquiry. These subjects were discussed. With regard to these countries, it is so interesting that although we are all few, the situation is very different in the countries. All the countries are amazed at the success of Icelanders in tourism and do not understand it, do not understand how we can do this. Greenlanders are interested in increasing their tourism. Of course, the structure of these flights is part of it. So are conveyors. But they look at this very differently. Greenlanders are much more occupied with protecting their country and controlling its lands, but its infrastructure is not very strong. They themselves complain that there will be persons and players over the middle of the hour, render some service, and then have gone away. There will not be the necessary knowledge in the land and the need for stability. It's a lot like our kind, but it's a lot less than a scale. Of course, they will be aware of the interest of the superpowers now in the construction of the airports. They'll be aware of the interest of Americans who want to have some conflict there. I think we're about to have some deal with this airport. It is remarkable, though, to experience this deep - seated desire and love for the Greenlandns of their country. They don't want to sacrifice their land for tourism. They want full control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u28	Mr. President. There was a very interesting development in Greenland in September ever since, when things were happening quite fast that relate to the airports and their structure. This is what people think about, based on safety issues, and in general, traveling through the extremely expensive Greenland to build up the ground in Nuuk and Ilulissaat and Narsusaq. I find this very, personally exciting. This increases safety in the Atlantic Ocean and international traffic and in the large context of the parts. There's been a certain development, like what happened. paritaprevir The Brjánsson mentioned this interaction, however fast evolution was in September regarding the airport structure, the Chinese, the Americans, and the Danish government. A lot of theft. I'm considerably concerned about the safety of the North Sea, and I want us to do much better, and hopefully the Western government will continue to work and look into it. I know there's a lot of security checks in the North Pole and elsewhere. But then I have a very personal interest in satellite guidance and improved communications through satellites and technology. This would be extremely effective in Greenland and Iceland if we were to follow the steps of the Faeroesans and try to achieve the results that the movers have achieved through a satellite story in their Vogga airport and that they have completely altered the environment there. It would be an enormous step for Greenland and Iceland to achieve similar technology across Iceland through EGNOOS and ESA. I hope there will be continued work in the Western Council of pushing on these objects and maybe they'll open up issues a little in the council leading to a satellite guide in the whole area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u29	A respectable president. Thanks for the cross. Senator. Of course, communication is a difficult task in a vastly large country, and it is just like Greenland. That's one of the major challenges for the Greenlands. They are also concerned about the increased traffic of large ships, both ships and passengers, along the coasts of Greenland, and they complain that there is a need to tighten some of the rules of the landing of cruise ships to the country, for they simply say that the cruise ships allow people to land without supervision and without permission. This is one of the challenges. Of course, we have discussed in the Western Council whether we can work together on some common view of these matters. But they are interested in safety. There is no doubt about it. Regarding the flight guide: It is also a major project, and we naturally assume that Greenland is going to take advantage of the best available technology. Entres have been very effective on their aircraft that landed in the Faeroe Islands and I understand, although I don't have the knowledge that they have special equipment that doesn't have the means to use or that not all airlines have the ability to use. But, you see, the Faeroe Islands have been very successful in flying with these big airplanes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u30	Mr. President. Although it's rather unorthodox, in view of my current position here at the Generals, I'm going to indulge in a few words when discussing the norological partnerships as we did before and now in the Western language. I speak first and foremost as a senator who has been doing this kind of cooperation for a very long time, to be honest, almost continuously. In less than 36 years of my work here at the council, I have either been a member of the Western Council or a Council of the Northern states, or I have been a member of the Norwegian Minister's Council. It may be, because this was mentioned lightly in the introduction to the Western Council or its founding meeting in Nuuk, Greenland, on September 24, 1985, that I was sitting in that meeting, and I'm expected to be left alone, all the ways in politics. In fact, I was on the preparatory committee of the Icelanders, Greenlandians, and the Faeroeses, which in 1983,1985 laid the groundwork for the Western Council. It was a good school and an amazing experience for us to meet such gross politicians as Jónatan Motzfeldt and Erlendur Patursson's son from a village where our leader in that case was Páll Pétursson's son. In fact, the Erlendur Patursson, the magnificent politician, was the main promoter for the formation of the Westnorological Council, who presented such cohesion in the Council of Northern America and actively fought for the establishment of cooperation. To him, of course, apart from the good cooperation of these neighboring nations, it was a matter of taking steps toward greater independence and becoming a valid members of international cooperation. That's even. The remarkable thing about the Western Council is that the Faeroe Islands and Greenlands sit on equal terms to a table with a sovereign and independent state. The Western Council, or this cooperation of the Assembly, serves in my mind a variety of purposes. Its decisions and jobs are of great value, but no one should overlook the fact that, over three times six members of the council, reflecting most or even all the divisions elected in the local Parliaments, are at any given time 10% of the members of the Parliament, and about 20% of the great and Dutch senators are active participants in Western cooperation. They have thus accepted the responsibility and responsibilities to build up and promote this cooperation. They form a strong network and a relatively large number of members, compared with a number of members of the local Parliament, who have these obligations. It means a lot to the Western cooperation itself, and no one should underestimate it, not only in getting along well with them, but also in the presence of problems in cooperation with the states, because it can happen. While we generally view this cooperation as successful and good, it is a matter of course that these neighbors and friends also have to resolve matters between them. It's been that way for a long time. At that time, it may be important to have a well - known political network that can communicate, both over the border and also within the politics of the countries. Thus, the Western and national authorities in the sections have been used. So it was to form the situation that between Iceland and Greenland had not been able to reach agreements on many important interests and particularly on the seaside. There was a disagreement about markets between Iceland and Greenland for years, Greyloasy, karape, shrimp, and other important species. At that time, members of the countries promoted the need to resolve the matter. In the 1990's, there was a debate in Iceland that there was no reason for them to leave live in Iceland with Tuna. At that time, the National Council of the West African Council opposed such ideas with the argument that it would be harmful for long-term cohesion and cooperation, and it would be foolish to push the Faeroe Islands out of the Icelandic jurisdiction, where they had been allowed to be one of the nations after we moved the weekend out. Happily, however, the Faeroes kept their quotas, while they were most difficult during the 1990 crisis, they were added to furovates. And if you know, a few years later, it became important to Iceland to have access to the ever - increasing legal history when we started fishing again in Norwegian-islensk herring and, in fact, other species. So, Mr. President, I'm doing this a little bit, that there's a similar situation now. Unfortunately, in dealing with Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, the Hoyevík Convention, the Free Trade Convention, has been reported, and no fish contract is in force between countries. It's an unacceptable situation, in my opinion. I'd like to use this platform to challenge the national and national governments, and particularly those of the Western Council, such as the 5th and Icelandic, to put pressure on governments to actually sit down and solve this. With regard to the Hoyevík Convention, it has been known that he has been a source of care and that not all Hoyevík people agree very much with his specific requirements. The Hayvík Convention's decision, on free trade and investment freedom, has come to meet with a new fishing legislation that places restrictions on foreign investments in the fishing industry. As a matter of fact, I'd like to say that Icelanders should be careful to object in their own way that the Faeroess put such regulations in their fishing legislation, for decades we have done it, to limit or completely ban the investment of foreign fishers. However, this situation needs to be resolved with reasonable measures and thereafter, with a review of the Hoyvík Convention's decision, which is now contradicted by advanced legislation. In my opinion, it is an easy task to find a solution. Other than that, the contract has served both countries well. Businesses have grown dramatically in the time of the agreement. In the last few years, the very pleasant development has occurred, especially in two, three recent years, that movers are coming into plus when total land trade is developed, i.e. both product, service and capital exchange. I repeat my challenge and insistence on this matter, that it be won. The same is true of the fishing contract, that is, of course, a solution to get it back on, and it has to be done at the latest before the spring before the Far East, according to the custom, started coming here in Iceland on its own lineboats to hunt their share. I'd like to finally thank you in general for the work of the Western Council. I had the opportunity to sit a part of yesterday's theme conference in the Norwegian house, and it was a pleasure. These included: Very interesting ideas that I just want to raise are that the Western government makes more relevant, and against even common Western emphasis on Arctic affairs and the following events in the climate change and the like. I think it's a very exciting, big, and good idea, and rhymes well with the recent audience of the Western Council to the Arctic Council so that I also encourage men to impress them. I think it would be very exciting and wise to strengthen the Western dimension in this context through some common emphasis, that men developed in this field. The Arctic and Arctic climate is at great risk to one of the countries, i.e. Greenland, the development of Greenland. All the effects there may be most proud and most visible of the warming are often seen in Greenland, followed by Antarca. So it's exciting to be in and link Iceland to that, and after what happened also to Faeroe Islands, and it could even. has taken place in common policy measures of this kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and our distinguished president for a little storytime and information. It's amazing. A senator has observed the work of the Western Council from the beginning and is one of the conditions of the council's fathers, let's say, there's more than one of them in this case. And there are the same issues that still exist in this cooperation, and many of them need to be sharpened. The committees were climate issues. It's just the way it is, and it's been shown at the theme conference yesterday that Greenland has already begun to feel a great deal about the changes that take place in the environment. Fishermen and fishermen on the North Coast cannot do their work as they did before; they cannot take the water and catch it in the same way that they did sooner because of climate change. I just want to direct it to a respectable president, ask him, because he's been following the Western Council from the beginning, whether the Western authority evolved in the direction he had considered, and whether the Western Council is in his mind, under the expectations of men and where we would have to do better. I'd like to mention, though, that we will take seriously his urgency regarding the present time and will send a conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u32	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear, and I'm excited to hear the conclusion that the Westnoric Council is giving up on this occasion. For the season of history, I don't want to add my share to it. The case was moved, and, as I mentioned, the initiatives of Erlendur Patursson were especially taken, and the subject was well submerged, with interest in all the countries. But it was certainly a pleasure to participate in that birth, to work in the preparatory group, and then to join the foundation meeting. On the 30th anniversary of the Western Council held in the Faeroe Islands a few years ago, I was offered particularly as one of the few still in politics to commemorate the milestone. And I said there in addressing that I thought of myself as a sample, a showcase, such as a museum piece, I'm sorry, President, and I'd be there primarily for a show, to see what those men looked like that had done at the time. Regarding Greenland and how the climate impacts meet that country, I join with the wind. A senator and I mentioned in my short list that, of course, very many of these matters are going to disappear on the situation there. When it comes to its impact, Greenland is very much involved, except for its being as dramatic and remarkable as it is. Our emphasis on this and our voice into the Arctic Council, or other places where these topics are primarily discussed, is not to be considered among the most important points in the lives of the local people. You see, that's what often needs to be reminded of in this discussion, that the Western North and Arctic regions are not just ice or resources, but are also people. Finally: Has the Western Council lived up to its expectations? Yes, it has, in my opinion. I can only say that in the process of brain contact, I am very satisfied with its work and development. And now I think it's strong. [[The president calls.]] But I can certainly admit that there was a time when I was worried about the Western Council, and then you heard too much talk about whether it was a useless coffee club and had something to do with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is a unique partnership in many ways, such as a dignified president. There is a discussion in the field of a special nation and nations that are somewhat dependent on other superiors. Teamwork is a success. Here, personal acquaintances are a major factor, and it is the crucial factor in many cases, such as the driving factor. A senator knows long experience in handling matters. It takes more than formalities, it takes more than meeting officials and politicians; it is personal acquaintance and personal trust. There have been many successes in the field ministry. We love each other. It's like a big family. It may be an inexpensive cliché, but it's still like that. But then there's something where we're competition. We are competing in a commercial market, such as the fish industry, where we are at great stakes and where people may lose something of their feet and lose focus and may not have the common vision that we need to intervening. Therefore, we stress that the Western, careful, but targeted, approach in a formal way to the present problem of communication. [[The president calls.]] We also wondered: " Should we expand our cooperation so that three nations will make themselves free trade contacts? [[The president calls.]] This did not happen at the time of the Hoyvík Convention. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator may be able to help us understand why this is so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u34	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u35	Mr. President. I think that the reason the Greenlandns didn't trust in such a large vacation agreement that the Hoyvík Convention was primarily because they thought they were ready for it and not prepared for such cooperation. Of course, there are many things. The Tolla and their tax system are in quite different places from ours, etc. I think it is very important to stress the long - term values and long - term value of this relationship when a temporary problem arises that needs to be addressed. The danger is that the politicians will be too established, too narrow, and just looking at their share in a single species of fish or whatever it is, instead of looking at the combined effects and value of working together in neighboring countries. It is so much and far more valuable to countries. We can take the tourism services there and the cohesive effects of its building and building up. There's a lot to attend for Greenland, and after an incident with the Faeroe Islands, how much has the rise in tourism in Iceland, since there's an overrun from here, etc. This is how it needs to be watched. I'd also like to mention, and honestly speaking about it, that it has always had some effect on me and directed me that there we Icelanders are working with, not only our neighbor people, but also nations that are on their way to greater independence and are pursuing greater self - control and home management and have that goal, at least Many of them in politics that they should end up as independent countries. And, of course, it is very close to us Icelanders, who are not further away from our sovereignty than 100 years, to be rather helpful in such cases than the other. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir He's the Guðjón of the S. Brjánsson for reporting the report to us. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, a respectable president of the council, for taking part in the discussion. I think it was important to us who are rather new in this work to hear the story and experience that a respectable president certainly has. I'm sitting in the Iceland Department of the Western Council and I've been doing this since I entered the council and must say that this is a truly interesting international organization. I'd also like to say that it may be far more important and more important than many might think to think at first sight. We work with these neighbors, their national conventions, who are not entirely independent of nations, but who still have considerable self - control in their affairs, although not in all of them. It may also make it a little exciting to look into our experience and history. A respectable senator who spoke before me spoke of most of his leading in that direction. Then I think these nations have much to share with them, and their interests are, of course, very similar. These are all islands in the middle of the North Atlantic, we have very much under the resources of the ocean, and hence their influence on our oceans, the health of the sea, the acidification of the sea, the melting of glaciers, the huge issues for all these nations. I think in these exact cases, these nations have a very effective voice and should have a very strong voice when it comes to speaking for peaceful international cooperation in science and research in the north. Now some might think that I was primarily talking about the Arctic, and I know that why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who has been a member of the Council for Congress on North Pole, has been a prominent member of the Council of Congress. There's a lot of interests going together. We are, as we have noted, maintaining a theme conference these days, holding a theme conference yesterday, and holding an internal meeting of the Western American Council these days. It was very interesting to listen to the lecturer yesterday and especially to the discussion on just this development and how the nations saw them developing. It is possible to go to the pessimism and say that we are taking a great deal of risk from climate change, and it is absolutely uncertain about the health of the oceans and the resources we have throughout the ages depend on the most. But it is also possible to look for opportunities in threats. It is a question of how we can make use of that opportunity, at the same time as we try to protect nature and resist when it comes to global warming. I think it's inevitable, though, to look at the ice being melting and that at the same time, it opens up an opportunity with certain threats. That's why I think it's so important that these nations share their vision and cooperate with each other for a certain purpose. I'm one of the members of the council who's on the Subcommittee that the Westnorics cross a north-language policy, and I think it's important. It's not very simple. It came, for example. To the conference yesterday, people start to wonder about things and to say, "Wait, it's foreign business, it's foreign business, it's not foreign business, it's not a matter of state. Danes actually treat their foreign affairs. But I now trust that we will achieve such a course and that our fine companions, Danir, will also agree that these nations cooperate with them in this regard. I feel like I can't come up here and talk about the Western Council and what we've been doing differently than coming into the Hoyevík deal. I find it very sad that the situation is that the Faeroe Society's foreign minister has taken it before the council to get approved of breaking up the deal. As a matter of fact, the Senate agreed. I understand it was a little under the cover of night, but there was not much discussion about it. Of course, there has been talk about the Hoyevík Convention for a considerable period of time after the moveees established new laws on fishing management, where they actually forbid foreign people to have a part of the quathane. I can have a certain understanding of the situation that happened at that time, but unfortunately, we have not yet been blessed with finding out how the future vacation business relationship can be with the Faeroesses. However, I have to say that I feel that the good news is that after we have just met at this conference and discussed the matter, whether at the conference itself or at dinner yesterday or on the bus right now on the Smokejaness, where I know that a large part of the group is, you find that the goody senators have every desire to do a vacation shop in Iceland. I think that's a big understanding of the fact that it's important in the field of employment in the Faeroe Islands. I believe that free trade agreements are of utmost importance and that increasing trade between countries in addition to other forms of cooperation. They promote cooperation in culture, art, education, and education, for free flows of people, and it just becomes so much more when it comes to the strong business of countries. I agree with what was presented in the case of the day. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I was, in effect, surprised when I began to look at the business story that when it comes to the product exchange, we have been moving more out to the Faeroe Islands than movers to us when it comes to service shopping and they're taken in, the Entries are in plus. I feel like I may have been missing a little bit of the discussion in the Faeroe Islands. We've been discussing this now with the 5th senators. I think they're getting a lot better on this now, and I also think that Faeroes' professional life has shown some of the people how important this is. I don't doubt that the movers, like always in such cases, have a point and there may be something we need to consider in our contract, but the information we've received, both in the Western and Foreign Affairs Department, are that there's been a lack of a certain reaction from Revenges to how to solve this matter. But I think the good news is that it seems that it is a good will for the good of qualified senators, so I think we will eventually have a solution. I would also very much like the Greenlands to come into this vacation agreement, whether under the name of the Hoyvík Convention or any other name. I think it must be very important for these little nations, who have relatively uniform jobs to negotiate free trade agreements with no more than Iceland and have a chance of a free trade and can be promoted to further business cooperation, culture and a list through it. I have a lot of expectations that we can work this out. I agree with what has been said in previous talks that when people meet and talk and hear each other's viewpoint, a man sees the importance of this kind of teamwork. It often means that when ministers talk to each other, they talk a little bit through government officials, and there's a small system behind it, much more formalized, and sometimes more difficult to find out what the real will is behind. When we have a situation like this in our dealings with the Hostagens, I think that we in the Western Institute of Iceland are supposed to take advantage of us, and I think we have a lot of opportunities to do so, and I have hoped we'll be able to get some results in this. To say that, I think I'm just going to go out to Smokejanes to meet my friends in the Western Institute, who are there visiting companies and institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u37	Mr. President. I deliver the report of the Iceland Parliamentary Conference on North Pole by 2018. Within a year, the highest 13th conference of Arctic convention held in Inari, Finland. Every two years, the Council members hold a conference on North Pole and held the first conference held in Reykjavík in 1993, not many people know that. At the conferences of the Parliamentary Committee, a large group of members and specialists from governments, university institutions, members of society, and others who are concerned about the affairs of the north. A major subject of each body of the Parliamentary Committee is to enforce the approved conference all the way to the Arctic Council. At that time, at the conference of the Parliamentary Committee, four major members were chosen for a special discussion. First, the oceans were directed toward northern climate change and how to minimize its negative consequences. Second, the digital Arctic and how to ensure that Arctic residents can be active participants in the digital world were discussed. Third, a discussion on the social responsibilities of an enterprise and how to ensure that the Arctic population benefits from increasing activity in the region. Fourth, a discussion of well - being was made, highlighting the innovations that can be used to ensure the well - being of the population of the Arctic. The conference declaration contains direct instructions to governments in the Arctic region, to the Arctic Council and to the European institutions. The declaration contains over 40 points, and I will discuss the subject of this conference later in the talk. This year the Senate Committee welcomed a 25 - year anniversary and provided a brochure on how the Committee operates. Other issues that were prominent in the discussion of the Commission during the year include worsening communication between Russia and the United States, the Northern Arctic policy, the importance of protecting the right of the inhabitants of the North Pole to use their resources in a sustainable way and the implementation of the Arctic Council. Only in general for the conference on Arctic, a few words: The main ingredient of this committee is, in effect, planning the conference held every two years and following its approval, as agreed here, following the Arctic Council, etc. The Senate Committee usually meets three times a year, i.e. The Icelandic Parliamentary Committee, along with other members of Congress, is usually the chairman of that meeting. This will happen in a year that is not a convention in which the committees as a whole are involved. So it happens every other year, but each year, these committees meet primarily in the form of the officers coming together. The U.S., Canada, Russia, and the Northern states are represented by the committee and at the European Parliament as well as by a regular representative. Some indigenous and ethnic groups in the north have a permanent hearing officer on the committee with the right to participate in discussions, such as the Northern Council and the Western Council, and then individual countries often come in as guests, last of all, e.g. China and Singapore both, of course, but they have no voting rights. It should be noted that in recent years the Council of Congress has taken a special interest in taking the initiative at a number of projects laid before the Arctic Council. There are so many things I can't speak them up at all, but I'm going to list here one point as a result of correction in the files I have to come to. At the beginning of Iceland's prehuman existence in 2004, a report on the effects of climate change in the Arctic region was published. It was called in English, with the permission of President Arctic Climate React Assessment. The text of this report, the one I am delivering, reads: The year of the report indicates that by the turn of the century, the Arctic area will be ice free by summer. Then it says: ▪ At that time, the level of vegetation is increasing in the north with a warmer climate. - Of course it's here. This should be true as follows: At that point, the level of vegetation is moving north with a warmer climate. It's important that this correction be observed here. This was in general about the Council of Congress, so people remember that every other year it is the president of the member states, as it were, that meets. True, the other year they meet too, but the other sort of council is conducting a full - costume participation of all committees. Only on Iceland's orders. Iceland's top members were in 2018 Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, president of the Council of the Left Motion, Lowika Anna Sævarsdóttir Presidenity, and Bea Leví Gunnarsson, Congress of Pirates. Guards are Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Smári Mccarthy. The secretary of Iceland, and has been a long time, Arna was Dorn Bang. A chairman of Iceland's Council of Congress, who in his past, serves as vice president of a meeting of the Committee. When presidents meet, every other year, all the Iceland Departments sit by the Committee's conferences every two years. And as with the names of these, the Iceland Department gathers as needed. A chairman will explain the activities of the Parliamentary Committee, and members of the Committee will also be informed of the work of the Arctic Council. The Iceland Department held three meetings in 2018, and then, of course, she participated in the big national conference, where the committees are meeting together, so I repeat it one more time. During the year, one committee participated in a chairman meeting in Kiruna, May 2018. On the part of the Generals, it was the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir in my early years, and then the secretary, Bang Djörg. The role of that meeting was also the case. to prepare the conference later in the year and discuss the emphasis of this conference on Arcticism, which was to be held in the autumn of 2018. In the fall, and in the process of a conference declaration. At this meeting, Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir participated in discussions about the change in northern communities. She participated in discussions that clear support for the United Nations Paris Conference would have to be held at a climate conference. Furthermore, she reported that there was a new government in Iceland and said that the affairs of the north would remain first of all. She said that the affairs of the north had received additional attention within the Generals and, for example, as an example, had been given to a special debate in the Northern District Convention, taking the initiative of the Chairman, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, to participate in the Supreme Court. The minister of foreign affairs, the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son, who would then have participated in much of this important matter. Then the preparation for Iceland's Presidency in the Arctic Council would begin in Iceland, but Iceland will replace Finns in spring and will be in that role until 2021. Later in the year, the chairman of the Council of Congress participated in the presentation of Finn's presentation of this prehumanity held in Helsinki, a government of Finland. I'd like to take a little closer to what happened at the Senate conference, where all the committees took part in the full decoration, as I said. It was held in Inari, Finland, last September. There we sat there, the one who stands, Trausti Trali the son of Guðmundsson, and Líneik Anna daughter of Sævarsdóttir, the son of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Arna makes Bang. The first part of the conference was published on digital Arctic, i.e. how it is possible to prepare north paths for the so - called fourth industrial revolution and how to ensure that Arctic residents can be active participants in the digital world. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson took the lead. to add a paragraph to the conference declaration on how to support the development of digital technology for languages in the north by providing access to research, technology and language education. That's what we agreed on. The second part of the conference was published on climate change in the north and how it would be possible to minimize the negative results. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson gave the subject the answer to the questions of the meetingers. He emphasized the importance of increasing the education and understanding of the public of the consequences of climate change as knowledge is the best weapon in the battle. Then he told members of Congress even. can help by promoting increased cooperation between countries and international institutions, to support the development of international agreements that contribute to sustainable development, and to promote home legislation that helped fight climate change. He also stressed the importance of discussing how greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced, living conditions, and sharing knowledge in the area would be honest and open. For example, Oddný G. Harðardóttir participated in discussions on behalf of the Council of Northern Ireland and explained that last year the Council of Paris had published a guide for members of Congress on how to achieve the objective of the Paris Convention. The third part of the conference was discussed on the social responsibilities of an enterprise, how to ensure that Arctic residents benefit from increasing activity in the region and that companies follow international standards of activity. The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir participated in discussions about this, apart from conducting a meeting, and reenacted the importance of preserving a great cultural heritage of the north and vulnerable nature. Thus, there was an opportunity to promote real changes in which business responsibilities to the inhabitants of the north were clear. A fourth part of the conference was dedicated to the well - being of the North Pole, and it was mostly what innovation might be used to secure the welfare of the population of the Arctic. Guðjón Brjánsson, vice president of the Western Council, reported on the cooperation of the Council with the National Institute of Research and Analysis of the Maps of Young People in an effort to reduce drug abuse. It was noted in his report above that the Westernological Council is working on a program at the Arctic Council for the Presidency of Iceland. When preparing a conference declaration, a special committee was arranged several times, reviewing comments and suggestions. Chairman Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was the head of Iceland's Department on the committee and put it in place. emphasis on the importance of developing communities in the North and on the marine affairs, as well as on equality and sustainability. He suggested at his last meeting of the Committee that a paragraph on the importance of improving marine maps and shipping systems in the Arctic seas would be added to Iceland's proposal, in fact, at the end of the two - year - old age, that a kind of native school would be established, where the indigenous Arctic countries could inform us about their emphasis on the use of natural resources and culture. It should be noted, then, that at the end of this conference, the next conference of the Council for Arcticism will be held in Norway in 2020. On the other hand, I'm going to shoot off, because in the middle of February, the next step is a so - called prehuman meeting in Siberia. Under this report, as well as president, Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevardsdótttir and Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I would like to use this opportunity to thank the members and the secretary of the committees for good cooperation and the work that has been very rewarding and effective in my eyes. I also want to use this opportunity in the end to remind you that the Arctic partnership is extremely important. As has been noted many times, the Arctic region is a key site in developing virtually all world affairs. And anything that will either promote the Norwegian cooperation or the international cooperation of Arctics on equal terms, of course, is good. Therefore, Mr. President, I have concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u38	Mr. President. I thank the head of Iceland's Parliamentary Conference on North Pole for a good report by 2018. I am personally interested in the security and communication of the north. We'll see in the entire discussion here, whether with the Western Council, in a report on it or in the report I follow, how important the North Seas are to become in general on geographic, political issues. They're all discussed with a lot of weight, especially in the work I'm participating in with the NATO Council. I have a keen interest in international and security services and have already asked the Westnoric Council, which has to do with cruise ships, tourism, and such factors, whether the issues have been adopted. We're talking about 3◯4 million people in the area north of the Arctic Circle. This is an extremely difficult area, many of which are the most difficult conditions on earth, and so much is of great interest. It is very difficult to deal with, many tasks, such as security and communication. I'd like to talk about the genith story more. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this discussion was involved in the matter of the Parliamentary Conference on North Pole, because the satellite's range does not reach the north. We see that a measure of progress has been achieved in Norway and Finland, but in general it's not in the northern regions, e.g. in the North Atlantic, in Iceland and north of Greenland. We can't use American systems. I think it would make a huge improvement in security in those areas if they got it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u39	Mr. President. I appreciate the question. The cooperation is very good among all the states at the Parliamentary Conference. That is certainly true, though, that certain matters are not discussed, and I will follow them. For the safety issue, they can be understood in two ways, but now I'm talking about public security and shipping, etc. It is a binding agreement to the cooperation of all these countries into the rescue and monitoring of the North Sea. The work is done to develop the type of cooperation involved and establish an organization. There have been reports of e.g. ... abouta rescue center in Iceland. Thus, the absence of decisions has been waved. Russia has developed equipment and such with Siberians, mainly linked to their military bases. This is less important in the region of the United States and Canadians. They're like this, they've taken first steps, but no more. Regarding what is not discussed, the military structure itself, the development of the Russians in their territory, the answers to NATO and the West powers in various ways, I'm not going to trace it, we know it from the news. The Chinese are building their belts and circuits and bringing in ice breakers, etc. Of course, there is no military structure, but you can sense a certain interest in the territory you do not know where to look for and why to be aware of it. All of this has to do with the control of this ocean. Who's gonna run the North Sea outside the 200-mile jurisdiction? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u40	Mr. President. They're clearly called something, on our reports today. I'm going to review what is stated in the NATO report on the growing importance of northern issues, including Based on climate, economic and security. In recent years, climate change has rapidly begun, and such developments would have a profound impact on the traditional life in the region. There are new opportunities to create for opening up new shipping routes in tourism and increasing access to resources. In addition, there is increasing concern over the increase in tension between the Arctic States with increasing trade and regional political change, especially in the light of the increased Russian military structure in the region. A senator mentioned. That is exactly the military importance of the Siberians. Now the Russians have started and rebuilt eight military bases on the northeast, as we call them, from Europe to Asia, which have a very important role as rescue and security centers for areas. This is a fine discussion today, and many people are involved. I'd like to ask about a discussion at the U.S. Senate Conference on North Poles, about how they've been handled, how they've been handled. Iceland and I have placed great emphasis on international and international equality, international committees and international committees, as well as on the NATO Council. I'm interested in knowing how to handle these matters in this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u41	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator says that the reports we have received are called all more or less, and he will likely become more numerous. It shows how extensive this matter is and how many areas it involves. It's this key area I talked about earlier. What is not discussed, i.e. The military structure, let's say, is out of consideration for the superpowers, and we accept it for now. With regard to the rescue situation, the Russians have built up bases, which are at the same time their rescue stations. The western sea is much less about it, and then there's a hole between, like, Greenland, Iceland, North Noregur, our sea level here where there's a lot of cruise boats. Then the big question is, What do we do about it? There is no way to say that it has good shot. In terms of equality, they have been at the tip of the Icelandic commission even for years. I mean, yeah. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir is of great importance in this regard. These matters are also fragile. The reason is simply the culture that has thrived, and I do not say it in a negative tone, for each nation has its culture and culture in its own process. The culture that has evolved is based on the clear movement between men and women in most indigenous nations, and it needs to be dealt with with with with with with with highly respect and by instruction. Other people build this area too, i.e. People who have their cultural roots. There I think there are many conflicting equalitys, many of which are not well off. It is our business in the dough, and it is our duty to keep them going and the discussions that develop within the Arctic conference each time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the report. It is a very interesting work being done on this committee, and perhaps especially important to have the opportunity to work with these large nations, who are great actors in the international politics. It is one thing for us to be in the Council of the North, where ministers sit and officials who follow that service there, where there is the scene of the senators. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's only into the operation of the senators. I've been speaking about how important it is for us Icelanders to use our voice in the Arctic field, which we certainly are doing because we take lead in the Arctic Council. But I believe that we have a great chance of being a northern nation, that we have a great potential in science, research, and innovation associated with this group of languages. I would love to see a strong partnership between science and research. The European Union shows increased interest in these issues and has developed a heading for the North Sea. Although the European Union is not such a member of the Arctic Council, it is an observer and a member of the council work. Now I'm just calling out for what's happened. A senator how he feels about the great Western State, the United States, has succeeded in promoting or having a clear direction and a vision for the future of the cooperation of these states in northern lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u43	Thank you. A senator for these numbers and questions. Well, if we just take ourselves here, we could be more active, of course. One of them is to inform the public more about what we do in northern affairs, not just members of the United States, but members of the United States in general and on the situation, as well as on the state of the state, and so on, both the Western Council, the Northern Council, and the Council of Congress. We're already in a pretty good position with some of the things that go wrong. A senator mentioned, as with the innovation. Iceland's innovation center has, e.g. Suggested what innovation tools she's been working on in the North. Regarding science and research, there are many such factors at the North Pole. These are job committees in most fields of science, whether natural research or sociology, and more and more countries are involved. There are Chinese scientists, Polish scientists, even Singapore, who are very interested in northern research, Japan, etc. The Achilles Oak is more of a cohesive, i.e. The exchange of knowledge, the exchange of mutual data, so that there should be an international scientific centre in the Arctic region to facilitate communication, to facilitate cooperation. The United States is out of place, and I'm going to use the time in my second answer to explain only the situation there. I'm sorry, but their policies are weak, and their work is weak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I decided that we might need a scientific international center, yes, Arctic science. [[North Pole science.]] I thought it sounded really good, and I wondered if it wasn't a big opportunity for me and Icelanders. I agree, I think it's the will of all scientists to work together, whether they come from Russia, the United States, Canada, the European Union, or where it came from. But sometimes international politics seem to get a bit in the way. It may often be that smaller countries, such as Iceland, can play a significant role. I may not say the least because I've had the opportunity to sit around and hear the Russians talking for increased cooperation and so I'd like to share with other nations the access to research and science. I'm hoping that with our increased emphasis and strong voice and others on the importance of research in the north, there will also be more competitive funds in the European Union, exactly linked to this matter. The European Union would like to open the way for other nations to have access to these research funds. It is one of the main policies now in the next framework. So my question is: Can the Council of Congress - I think of this, a respectable president, I'm sorry, a bit of an unusual name, it's spoken of as a conference of Congress, but this is the Council of Arctic Congress, and there have certain members of the audience - what I'm wondering: Is it my vision that this most important Council of Congress can further promote cooperation in the field of science and North Pole research? [[The president calls.]] And maybe Iceland can play a big part there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u45	Mr. President. I'm going to answer to the senator directly: Yes, the Senate Committee can do that, promoting scientific cooperation, etc. I think that we, the three sitting there, have got this particular point in lunch so we can get ready for the next conference. There's nothing more complicated than that. Only about the media, when I'm talking about some kind of international center, should we not forget that it is the university community of the north. There are Web sites, big and great, and there are conferences of scientists and collaborators. I'm talking about trying to get a better organization of some kind of central cooperation and data exchange agency, if that's what we're saying. This isn't developed for me, I'm just going through it. Only about America. They don't really exist. There is one very active member of Congress Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska senator who has led it all together, our team of members of Congress with the United States. She's taken the others and these with her at this meeting, but it's never happened in the U.S. Congress, as we have here. It's the only nation that's ever made this up. It's hard for me, and I talked to Lisu Murkowski specifically this fall about getting a better shot at this. On the other hand, the U.S. policy in northern affairs was designed only while they had a prehumanial period in the North Pole, but after Trump came into power, this policy is only in my opinion of winning resources in the North Sea, i.e. oil, go back to the oil process in Alaska, which had been shut down, enter a peaceful area, enter an area that the natives have considered to be theirs, etc. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think, first of all, the wrong course, but also a weak course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u46	A respectable president. This is the first time I have participated in international work here at the council, going to this conference in Inari on Arctic. It was a very interesting experience. A very interesting job that is going on there. Senators come from all countries at the Arctic Circle and beyond. It was for example. Senators from Britain and Ministers from Singapore who participated in discussions at the conference. It was also very interesting to meet members of the Native Council, the Council of Canada, and Russia, and hear their viewpoint. It is not only the National Congress that sends representatives but also the proconsuls from the Native Council. If there's anything they could do, they'll find out more about it, if there's anything they can do about it. The views that the members of that council brought into the discussion were extraordinary, and of course they spoke with great insight because they have very good knowledge of localities. That's what I learned most of it, getting involved with other senators, other elected agents, especially the natives or the natives. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen gave talks about problems with smaller languages in the north, but smaller languages are in some danger, as we experience a little in Icelandic language. But their means and access to the tools and tools needed to preserve the language and protect it permanently, as we do in Icelandic language in Iceland, are not as good as ours and other larger countries. I've provided a bill for the changes in author law, about the automatic analysis of text, so that all language texts can be screened free - it's a little complicated, I don't go too deep into it - so that the computer can learn a language. I wondered if larger nations cannot share the technology they have access to with smaller nations less easily accessible to them. When Aaja was talking about this problem, I would drop down on paper in an instant because I knew this tribe and I would send it to some members of the Iceland Department. We only adapted the wording and suggested ways to support the development of digital technology for languages in the north, and particularly these little languages, by providing access to language research, technology, and education in computerization. I don't know how common it is to be in the process so late with new suggestions that are accepted. The Aaja's Larsen was very good, and it certainly affected people that it was very easy to get the proposal approved when she was before the committee. In Iceland, the development of the language and protection of the Icelandic worlds was added together, comparable to the problems of smaller peoples in the Arctic and the progresses and steps we have taken. We were able to mix up the knowledge we had, because we also have a language in danger, and we have entered into those who have not achieved it far at that time, while the larger nations have not had a special need to stand in this regard. They may be much further involved, expecting that everything will turn out well for others. But the smaller nations see the problems better and understand why the problem is with smaller nations and not larger ones. The great nations just do this, and everyone else can take care of themselves. We do not live in luxury. The Arctic does not live with that luxury, as you can see, e.g. with Singapore's entrance to this conference. They are interested in the Arctic because they too are affected, even though they are not near the Arctic. It was a pleasure to talk to the man who came from Singapore, who had a keen interest and a great knowledge of these matters, and others could imitate them. Singapore's climate action plan is one of the best I know of. They've taken international reports on climate change, change in sea level, and planned: it's about to happen, we'll react to it, we'll do something about it. And they've started. They then receive reports that the situation is getting worse and that need to be done even more. Of course, they are pushing even more pressure on everyone, especially in the Arctic, but it says that North Pole warming is taking place much faster than elsewhere. This results in a much more irreversible change, although it may have an effect later on them. If evolution runs out here in the Arctic, if the ice melts, it's a very slow doom clock for Singapore. What a valuable journey that was! I am much better aware of the importance of such conferences in which members of the other nations meet and talk about these issues that are similar, just differences of opinion. Like what? paritaprevir In recent discussions about the Western Council, Brítís Haraldsdóttir pointed out that this is not like the Ministry of Ministers, where officials are talking more. It is laying the groundwork for the course that a minister will follow and act. It is taking the first steps to shape the vision to where to go. Of course, considering this platform in the Arctic Council, climate changes are at the lowest rate. The plans set out there are very ambitious, even more than what is expected in Kyoto in the coming years. I hope that all the peoples of the Council of North Pole and other countries will be led by the seriousness of the findings presented by representatives of this council conference, since otherwise we will face serious problems. There's nothing more complicated than that. These steps have been taken. Now it is the Ministerial Committee and others to see to it that things are being accomplished. In this way, I would like to ask the World Congress: "It would be nice to know what position these Senate committees have produced, and not just in the Arctic, is in the company of the European Commission. How far have they reached? What box has been checked? Have you finished what was set out here or there? How far has it gone? I think it would be very helpful for the council to have a report on the progress of the projects that these conferences have proposed on the issues to look forward to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u47	A respectable president. After a report for the work in 2018, we will discuss the work of a Senate Committee on North Pole. The Parliamentary Committee is a cooperative site for members of the Arctic Council. As we have seen, in 2018, there was a year of conference in this cooperative field, but such conventions are held every other year. The convention was the thirteenth in this field, and the third to which I attend. Such conferences are important. The program has a number of interests that are common to the states around the Arctic and to the people living there. At the conference, a large group of senators and specialists from governments, university institutions, and members of society, as well as the indigenous population that care for the issues of the north, meet. A major subject of the Parliamentary Committee is also following up the approved convention. More important, the translation of the work is that through the work, the business of the north is constantly on the program as well as, as many previous speakers have entered today, a personal relationship is formed. In particular, focus on sustainable development and environmental protection is growing emphasis on knowledge of cultural heritage and the way north of countries and how that knowledge can be used to strengthen modern society. There is a steady increase in the economic and social well - being of the population of the north and how to communicate experience and knowledge between countries. The conferences make sure that in the entire Arctic Summit, members of the Parliament are appointed with vast knowledge of the interests of the north. Of course, these issues vary greatly from country to country, such as the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, came in earlier. He also reviewed that at last year's conference, there were four themes, and I had the opportunity to conduct a meeting on the theme social responsibilities of an enterprise. I believe that once a new operation is being developed for the use of northern resources, it is possible to achieve a much better outcome in integrating with existing communities. It requires a much clearer aim, building a vision of how to contribute to sustainable resource use as well as to develop sustainable partnerships with resources, with organisations in working time, equal policy, the purchase policies of services and various other factors. There we Icelanders could learn, but we could also impart some experience. Among the issues discussed at the meeting of the Committee and at conferences are environmental and environmental protection against land and sea pollution. Climate problems are discussed, well - being, mental health, social services, prevention of drug use, and suicide, as well as other health standards are discussed. The equal issues are discussed. The structure of the infrastructure has often had considerable space, and it is possible to understand our challenge to build, for example. up road transport in the context of building road transport in the north of Canada and Russia. We may be able to add two zeros behind all our challenges there, both in distances and in money. This comparison has also convinced me how much it has made a difference for our well - being to have constantly emphasized the need to build good international transport. The energy sources, distribution and use of energy and infrastructure are also discussed in this context. Like what? paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson Björn came in earlier was digital solutions for consideration, and it certainly is of great importance in the north, i.e. access to good network connections and sufficient transport capacity, access to satellites, and some other services, as well as technical solutions to languages and more. Education, communication, and the acquiring of international and local knowledge are being made up of programs, research, safety, and survival, and so on. Then last year a number of challenges were discussed in following the approved conference and how it would be best to do so. The conclusion was that in addition to presenting the approved ones in formalities, representatives would need to be diligent in using as much as possible opportunities to share information about the ministry. The results of the conference include: in what participants brought home and shared. Apart from the formal program of the conference, I was very interested in getting to know the emphasis on practical and academic study to share the same. There is much to study in scattered regions as a relatively few people attend. Not only are high school studies but they are offered as ongoing education. Thus culture is maintained, opportunities are being given to develop and design new and useful in modern society. Moreover, it is an important part of maintaining confidence and self - image in society and thereby of well - being. I think we need to be alert to a similar educational offer in this country. A similar study has been conducted to some extent in house - to - house schools, in connection with agricultural schools, in the ongoing education of amateurs and autodiversaries, and in some other fields in high school. It was there, e.g. They are the National uniforms at the High School of High School of Isafjörður. During the first few years, the Council of Parliament worked hard at the establishment of the Arctic Council and the first convention, as mentioned earlier, in Reykjavík in 1993. An important focus field in cooperation with the North Sea is to promote the cooperation of a university that can contribute to the education and research of the systems in society and nature associated with sustainable development. The University of the North is built on such foundations, where the University of Akureyri and the Founding of William the son of Stephen in Akureyri play a key role for us Icelanders. At the University of Akureyri, there is a training post in Arctic studies called Nansen Nansen. Other Icelandic universities and various institutions are developing studies and projects related to the Arctic community and the international interests of Iceland. Here I would especially like to make up the subject of Rif, a growing rod in the North Sea network of research stations. These stations form a network that monitors and offers tests all around the Arctic. The Research Centre Rif began operation in 2014 and is intended to create soil for research and knowledge development based on the natural state of the Melacra plain, while Melrasac Plain is the most accessible region in Iceland, which is defined as Arctic, by permission of President, Low Atrictic, but great international and Icelandic interests involve monitoring of natural development at the location of the Arctic. On the other hand, there is an example of a successful task in which society's interests on the Melrack Plain, including the Red Sea, meet the international educational community, and create new opportunities for local knowledge to meet an international level of knowledge. The project has been launched from the local population through Operation Flavours. That is what happened in a conversation between two people. At the earlier discussion of the importance of communication and knowledge, the members of the Council of Haraldsdóttir and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier. I have experienced through the work that there is a wall between languages, especially between the English - speaking world and the Russian world, but also some knowledge may be locked up in the indigenous languages in the region. It's very important, and that's one of the things I take out of this discussion, that there's work to do for the committee. Finally, I'd like to say that later this year Iceland is taking over the head of the Arctic Council of Finns, which has been a close partnership over the last two years. This January, for example, was the case. A conference at Akureyri on northern issues, which were part of the program, related to the presidenty cycle. Finally, I thank you for the cooperation of the Committee and the work of the NTSB secretary. This is a rewarding and productive work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to present a report from the ÖSE Council for 2018 to the head of Iceland at the SE Council, why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is in custody today. I'll take the lead. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson is with us on the committee. I still think the honour of the report may be placed all the way to our fine international secretary, Bylgja Árnadóttir. At the scene of the European Parliament's Security and Cooperation Agency, the ASE Parliament, held in 2018, the battle against terrorism, the Ukraine, and the violation of human rights in Russia was highest. The sexual equality, the affairs of refugees, climate, and Internet security were also discussed. The convention in Ukraine, which began in 2014, was prominent in the debate at the council during the year. During their annual meeting, the council directed recommendations to the fighting party to shoulder responsibility for the release of the dispute. It was called for the halt of military action in Ukraine and the loss of Russian governments from the inside of the Crimea. In addition, the Council approved an extra agreement on human rights violations in the Crimea, where violence and oppression were condemned against minority groups in the areas, especially the casualties and the Ukraine. During the annual meeting on human rights violations in Russia, Sweden's National Department presented an extra line of discussion at a convention of the Northern and Baltic States in May. In addition to this, persecution against queer people in Chechnya and threats to the security of human staff in Russia was discussed. Russian government was encouraged to investigate attacks against human rights. During a conference between the Northern and Baltic States, it was noted that it was important to focus on Russian human rights violations because the Russian World Cup championship was held in Russia during the year. Critic participation in the contest could give a little more support under President Pútín of Russia and then follow the approved addition of the two events at the annual meeting, leaving the Russia State Department. It wasn't to be taken lightly. We who sat in the councilroom saw all the impossible and impossible devices that can be used in a meeting park but it was clear that the Russians were not going to get this extra line on the program or for a discussion at the meeting. It was applied to the fact that the first apostle was not in the hall and that someone had gone home and had made up a number of issues needed to settle in order to get his conclusions delivered. As a result, the Russians willingly decided to leave the hall. I'm going to discuss this a little bit more after but continue my review of our year. The battle against radicalism among Muslims in Europe was under consideration at the winter meeting of OSE. The security threat created that the Allies who had participated in the work of a terrorist organization returned to their homelands. In an extra line adopted by the SE Parliament at the annual meeting, the importance of fighting terrorism and radicalness was repeated. During the fall meeting held in Kirgistan, the influence of the terrorist organization in Afghanistan was also discussed on the political and insecurity of neighboring countries. The problem of refugees was discussed at all of the SE meetings this year. During the annual meeting of the SE Parliament in Berlin, both the Economic Committee and the Democratic and Human Rights Committees concluded on the matter, as well as the approval of a secondary resolution of the child's escape issues. The OSE Council urged Member States to identify and deal with the reasons why people were forced to flee their homes and work against criminal organizations that profited from refugees'plight. In addition, Member States were reminded of an international ban that refugees are being brought back to their homes if there is any reason to believe that there is persecution in their own country. The importance of gender as well as the authority of women in connection with a number of discussions during the year was discussed, including a discussion on the battle against radicals and terrorism, climate issues, and refugee issues. A special resolution on the battle against sexual violence was adopted at the SE Parliament's annual meeting. Furthermore, the importance of ensuring the involvement of women in politics, in the economy, and in the discussion of climate change was concluded by the Economic and Human Rights Committee. It can be said that, with the members of the United States of Iceland at the OSE Council, there have always been talks stressing equality, as there is an equal cause of one of the support of a foreign policy. This is a group of paintings that we always stress, and we believe we have much to contribute to which we can share with other nations. Members of Iceland also attended annual lunch for equality, offering special representatives of the SE Parliament on equality. This special agent is a Canadian senator, Dr Hedy Fry, and I have to admit that she is now one of my favorite Canadian members. I don't know many people, but this woman is very excited to listen to her give talks on equality and interesting to see the work she's done in the ESE Parliament to draw attention to the important issues. One of the roles of SE is also to represent election management, which has from the beginning been one of the SE projects. The campaign has continued to grow over the past few years, and the SE team cooperates with the OSE and Human Rights Agency, or ODIHR, on the basis of the surveillance. We are well - acquainted with those in charge of ODIHR, a former senator and minister, who does so by means of a film - guild by Sólrún Gísladóttir, the daughter of Gíslún. In the Iceland Department, we had an opportunity to meet her and to learn more about ODIHR's work, which is very interesting, and we discussed in the Iceland Department that it would be interesting to get Sólrún to come here and introduce the work more fully to all members of the council. I'd also like to mention that there was an interview with Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir on Castry Show or recently reporting where the Agency and her work were presented and the concerns that exist, and the reason is, by human rights violations and certain extremes that seem to be coming up too far. We in the Iceland Department thus assigned our work to the Chairman, huh? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is in charge of politics and security. I'm on the Committee on Economic, Science, Technology and Environment and what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson of the Committee on Democracy and Human Rights. I'll think about it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson will follow up on matters he has discussed in his committee and will explain his emphasis. It is safe to say that the SE Council is very aware of the situation upstairs. I assume that it will be discussed even later this afternoon when we address the European Parliament's report that the Russians have almost said goodbye to the Agency. A great political dispute has been over how far to keep the Russians in that coverage and within that council. Russia still has competent members, and they have actively participated in the discovery. It is the highest point that their vision seems very different from that of many others. You sit there between the senators from Ukraine and Russia and listen to them relate a story of the same event with completely different emphasis. It's amazing how they two parties can see things with their glasses. In fact, George Tsereteli, president of the SE Council, said at the meeting that SE was faced with a conflicting confidence between members of the Member States and an increased risk of conflict between the superpowers. I think one of the biggest issues we have to deal with is how the SE will continue with the very different views within the board. For my part, I would like to emphasize how important it is that all people have access to this sort of council so that we can hear all the points of the view and there is some possibility of achieving a peaceful and objective impact on matters. We participate in various jobs, especially in the North and Baltic countries, and our chairman, hm. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson wrote under a letter urging the President of the SE Council to increase the surveillance of the SE Parliament with the forwardness of the council in member countries. One of the things we look forward to in international cooperation is that it takes a great deal of work, and we conclude on several important matters, often taking a long time to get everyone involved in such activities, but it seems that it is sometimes missing that it is followed in some way. The President of the SE Council said that he agrees with the letter and that the main problem in the Senate was to ensure demonstrations and to enforce the assumptions of the council, a problem that also existed by the National Assembly of Member States. It is true that at times, we complain that we have agreed to all kinds of council decisions, and then we fail to see when and how they are being followed. It's a project of eternity, but one of the things we could do better, if we look at ourselves, is taking time to discuss international reports, review those conclusions, and doubtless we could do more by informing our fellow members about what comes out of our meetings to form with SE. I'm just going to step on what I mentioned before, the suggestions from the Swedish Parliamentants that were approved by all the states of the North and the Baltic States. There was a Russian criticism, a violation of human rights in Russia, and especially when it comes to gay people. This was one of the conclusions the Russians had against getting on the program. Happily, they did not put the garment out and were agreed to do so. The director of the Swedish National League, Kent Härstedt, has been working in the field of ESE for a long time, and he expressed concern for the dwindling solidarity among the SE countries on common values such as human rights and democracy. He said that international agencies need to be careful not to serve the purpose of granting legal rights to questionable governments. I think that sentence brings in quite well what we are facing in the worldwide work today. A respectable president. As I told you earlier, I am personally on a financial and environmental committee. At our fall meeting, conducted in Kirigsistan, I spoke up and told of international cooperation between countries in the north. I pointed out that climate and free trade are focus factors in the cooperation of states in the north, just like Mediterranean countries and Central Asia. For example, the autumn meeting was a little dedicated to security in that area, and I have at times felt that the emphasis on ESE is quite high in that part of the world, which is somewhat understandable. In order to follow what we discussed earlier in the region of the North, this is a group of languages that I think all of us have on earth. Me and the Icelanders are required to speak for international Arctics and for the importance of peaceful cooperation in the field of science and research in that area. In my speech, I stressed that climate change is one of the biggest threats to world peace and that Iceland's government had set an ambitious policy to meet its commitments in the Paris Convention since 2030 and was aimed at making Iceland a non-carbon share in the year 2040. Achieving this goal would be to reduce transport use of fossil fuels. Iceland's independence and success would be the basis for the present world order that would emphasize respect for international law, free trade, democracy, liberalness, and international cooperation. I also encouraged SE Member States to protect common values and respect human rights and international law. World law and human rights are one of the main features of our program, and obviously all of us need to do better in discussing these important values. I'm not gonna keep it all any further than that. Councilmen to study the large report and are very familiar with the work being done in the field of the ESE Council. At the same time, I would like to encourage delegates to be more active in international and security discussions. I feel that we are spending too little time discussing the big and important issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u49	Mr. President. It's good to have this passage, and I totally agree. A senator will discuss the importance of discussing these matters much further. I wanted to ask a few questions about what is called the COPE project, a special surveillance project in Ukraine - in English, by permission of the President's Special Monitoring Emission. Iceland is, as far as I know, the only member of the United States that currently does not have any members on that committee. I've thought it was pretty bad for us not to have anyone in it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator if there's anything up to this at the SE, how bad Iceland is on this project, being the only state that doesn't have the resources to work on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u50	A respectable president. I was kind of hoping that. A senator was coming into an answer when he said that he agreed completely on everything I said. It's not like this minute I miss the Chairman of the Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, for I must admit that I cannot answer that question. I just don't know what it is. I don't know if it's a story that says we're not involved in this job and that we obviously haven't discussed it or if it's based on a misunderstanding. I'm sorry, but I can't answer a question. A senator because I just don't know it. On the other hand, I think it is safe to say that by our actions, we Icelanders have joined the international community when Russia broke international law and invaded Ukraine. We have stuck close to that decision. We were here to discuss the earlier trade of the Faeroes with Russia, but they did not succumb to the embargo because they did not participate - I don't even know if they were invited - the punishments of other European nations. At any rate, we have stood firm and repeated in our language the importance of human rights and the importance of, however realistic or unrealistic, that the Russians simply return the Monsters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u51	Mr. President. I appreciate that. I realize that this may not be an easy question, but it was primarily about whether it had come up. I've tried to bring it up on a foreign press committee, and I've repeatedly asked the State Department why it's this way. At the beginning of the project, we had one agent out there, but that hasn't been very long. I totally agree with what. A senator's appreciation for the importance of saying things like this is very easy to say, but he does not follow through with any action. We're small and warless countries, but we're not so small or so warless, if you look at the story, that we can't try to follow through with strength. This may not be a military project, but there are individuals from countries who are not involved in military service. They are doing humanitarian work and are doing all kinds of tasks, ranging from observing the conflicts between Ukraine and the rebellious groups up to assignments such as food transport through conflict areas, land mines, etc. What an important assignment! Iceland might come up with something. I really think it's shameful that we're the only country that doesn't have a party in this thing the way the situation is today. If you can communicate it, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator, and I view this point as being presented. We in the SE Parliament's Iceland Department will learn more about this subject. I was trying to describe in my talk earlier how it would be to hear such a completely different viewpoint, one from the Ukrainians and the Russians. When the Ukrainians call attention to this Russian action, they tend to think that all of us should come to Crime's house and see how peaceful it was. Now I admit I've never visited the Monsters. I hope I ever have a chance to do that. But Russia's answers are that they were, in fact, saving things and improving a situation. I understand very well what you're doing. A senator shook his head, and it's the same way we feel sitting in that hall. I think there's good reason why we'll discuss whether this fine unit is a good country or not. A senator points to something to be successful or whether Iceland should be a part of it. But here's the situation at the SE. People have very different ideas about what the situation really is. That may be what stings you most if people speak in completely different directions in this regard. As a matter of fact, I have to admit, I'm concerned. A senator, perhaps especially of what the next step is. What will happen next in this dispute, and how can the international community somehow come in? Despite the efforts of the international community, nothing has changed. I have to admit that you don't quite see what could possibly change, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u53	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Butthresdóttir Haraldsdóttir did a great deal about the work we've done in ÖSE, and in itself I don't have much to do about it. In many ways it is a special field, where representatives from the 57th National Parliaments in Europe, North America and Central Asia gather there at a quarter of the Parliaments from that country. As a result, this is a very good opportunity for humans to exchange opinions, both formally and informally. Like what? Haraldsdóttir And I'm involved in the work of Committee 3 on Democracy and Human Rights. At a meeting of the Council of Vienna, i.e. The Committee on Democracy and Human Rights was specifically discussed in the media and the media in the days of false news, or which might be called troll stories, which we know are a huge problem in both public intelligence and the intriguing of the public of delusions, troll stories. This was specifically discussed, on the one hand, in my committee, and then there was a particular consideration of equality, and it addressed the committees. The head of the ODIHR Democratic and Human Rights Agency, which we are well aware of, former minister of foreign affairs, Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir. She stressed to increase the share of women in policy policy activities and where there might be a basis for the power of the #methoo movement. There also was a talk outside of the program, a fine discussion, but I may have been the most memorable of these meetings when the vice president of the Norwegian Parliament, called Abid Qayyum Raja, who is a second generation immigrant in Norway, gave a address at the council. He specifically discussed the struggle against radicals among Muslims in Europe. He said that the source of the terrorist problem in Europe was failures to adapt to immigrants, and he made quite a point of saying so, including. example of his own growth in Norway, he would have been taught to be ashamed of his feelings, and he would have experienced violence both at home and in the mosque and received messages from his school that he would never succeed in life. He spoke of how a mixture of this can become a poisonous mixture that produces very fertile soils for the message of extremes. It was also remarkable to see firsthand the great conflict that really rages in Europe and internationally between Russia and many other countries, especially Ukraine. The main subject of the meeting can be said to have been a conflict in Ukraine and in Nagorno-Krabakh, a violation of human rights in Russia, the cause of children's flights, and a battle against sexual violence. Like what? paritaprevir Bautís Haraldsdóttir agreed to a variety of adverse conclusions and to the secondary conclusions that led to the resolutions of the Berlin Declaration of ÖSE. Among these secondary conclusions were Russia, Russia's human rights violations, and the Crime of Human Rights in Britain. Especially was the subject of queer people in Russia. As Bryndís changed, Russian representatives with point and eggs fought that these secondary decisions would come on schedule and then walk on the outside when they were approved. Among the Russian dramas was that hatred speech was as much a problem in Sweden as it was in Russia, and they specifically identified the rise of the newborns, who can be sure to be a problem. It cannot be said that the rise of the colony is supported by Swedish governments, such as persecution of queer people is supported by Russian governments. I also remember the words of one Russian senator when he said that Russia was a populous country, that almost every religion in the world had its own representatives, and that all the religions of the world promoted family values and were against homosexuality. Therefore, it would be a mass of people to oppose homosexuality. But those who end up walking to the door, hopefully sharing in the work of OSE. During the council, there was an objection to sexual violence. Like what? paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who represents Iceland on a global scale, took steps to uphold the values of equality. I gave a talk about the work of the Generals to prevent sexual harassment and violence within the council and told how Icelandic women in 2017 shared stories of sexual harassment and violence on the Internet under the mark of #metoo. The views were also held at a conference in Kirsistan, which I was not able to attend because I did a U.S. election operation in the United States, where the chairman of the Committee, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, said that participation in the community and economy was essential to success. [[The president calls.]] The involvement and security of all cities were the prerequisite for political and economic stability, and he said that the struggle for sexual equality is difficult in many ways because some men did not understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u54	Mr. President. We'll discuss this report by the NATO Council in 2018. At the Council of NATO in 2018, the extreme instability of the Mediterranean and North Africa countries was particularly related to the conflict in Syria and the great refugee problem they have caused in neighboring areas and in Europe. As a result, cooperation with states outside the Community and building blocks stability both to the south and to the east, as well as to the struggle with the threat of terrorism. At that time, the situation in Ukraine and the dealings of NATO and Russia, which have not been as bad since the Cold War, became even worse after the rise in Russian military intervention in Syria. So the committees agreed on the need to strengthen NATO's position in Russia, although the importance of conversation between the Russians and the NATO Council was emphasized. Then the council reasoned on an update to Russian military tactics, focusing on the involvement of elections and misinformation. The importance of reducing the cut-off of budgetary donations for protection and safety was considered in line with the commitment of Member States. At that time, members of the European Union's Commission were given an equal burden on Community nations, increase in European financial resources, and aimed to achieve the objective of protection spending by 2% of the GDP by 2024 to meet the changed security standards. Furthermore, the cooperation of NATO and the European Union, the political policy of the Community, and the security profile in Europe was emphasized. At that time, the northern issues received additional attention during the year and concluded the Council on Security and Cooperation in the area. In addition, equality issues were discussed within NATO and the importance of implementing them into functions and policies related to security and protection through the implementation of the UN Safety Relation No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. Other issues that were high this year include conditions in North Korea, the militarization of social media and false news, Internet security, space security, and energy security. NATO is an Council of Congress, which has been the site of the Council members of NATO for security and protection. Until 1999, the Council carried the name of the Northern Atlantic Council, then called the NATO Council. In recent years, the number of Member States and the addition of the NATO Council has increased rapidly and has been expanded in accordance with the changes in countries that have previously belonged to the Soviet Union and the countries of central and Eastern Europe. Nine democratic states from the former Communist states have now increased to the council as well as to the neutral European states, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland, which means that they can participate in activities and discussions at the council. The Council's work is increasingly focused on the overall security of Europe, economic and political problems in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and on the global security system. The Rose-Roth program also supports the development of a conniving democracy in Europe and nearby states. The NATO Council consists of 262 members from the 29 Member States. The number of delegates from each country depends largely on the population. The largest commission in the United States is with 36 members of Congress, of which Iceland is among the smallest of three members. In addition to the delegates, each Assembly of Nations can appoint as many defenders who may be allowed to participate in the council but do not have the right to vote. Government ministers are not allowed to represent the NATO Council. A total of 61 senators from 13 additional Member States are serving at the NATO Council and participate in committee meetings, except for meetings of the Commission, and meetings but do not have the right to vote. Yet, they have the right to make adjustments. There are seven chairmans of the council, six of whom, president and five vice presidents, are elected each year by members of the council meeting. The seventh official is the treasurer, who chooses the board of directors every other year. NATO is controlled by a board of directors, which includes presidents, vice presidents, treasurers, and nomads, as well as presidents of all the branch offices of NATO. The chief of Iceland's Department was in 2018, Vice President Trausti Friðbertsson, the House of Independence, the People's Þorgerður, Vice President Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, the Council of Reunion, and the Company Willum Þór Þórsson. The Watchmen were Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, a member of the Independence Party, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, a council of restoration. The secretary of Iceland was Arna Gerður Bang an international secretary. The division of Iceland's Department on Committees in 2018 was as follows: Njáll's Trausti of Friiðtir Trausti, National Commission Committee for the Civil Safety of Willum Þór Þórsson, Scientific and Technologies Committee of the Nlill Tratir Friið Friðbertsson, a work group on the Mediterranean Area of Dannath, the WHO committee of Willum Katrín Þór Þórsson, the Scientific and Technologies Committee for the National Socialist Friðbertirsson. In the year, Ramídi Friðbertsson was elected one of the four vice presidents of the National and Technical Committee of the NATO Council. NATO holds two meetings annually, spring meeting, and annual meeting in the fall. At so-called February meetings, the board of directors of NATO and the Council of the North Atlantic will hold together as a political committee, a Economic Committee and Defense and Security Committee. At the same time, the Council Board gathers for a meeting in March or April each year. Then, a number of NATOs are attending a annual meeting on the Atlantic cohesion that will be held in December in the cooperation of the NATO and the U.S. Atlantic Council. Finally, committees and members of the council regularly hold seminars and meetings between meetings. In 2018, Iceland Department participated in the February Summit in Brussels, a board meeting in Vilnius, a spring meeting in Warsaw, and a annual meeting in Halifax. In the late 1980's, Jehovah's Witnesses were not alone in preaching the good news of God's Kingdom. February was raised by the so - called February Summit of the NATO Council of Brussels, a joint meeting of political, economic, security, and defense committees. This time 110 found members of the 29 member states of the NATO Council attended. The meeting setting was traditional, i.e. Experts, officials, and generals of the Atlantic Community held up specific issues and answered council questions. Then, the annual meeting of the NATO Committee with the Council of the North Atlantic was held at NATO headquarters. The main issues at the meeting were the battle against terrorism, the conditions in Ukraine, the cooling communication between NATO and Russia, and finally the instability in the countries near the Mediterranean and North Africa, particularly with regard to the conflicts in Syria. From the Council of NATO for the United States, Njáll attended Chairman Friðurbert Friðbertsson, as well as Secretary of the Arna Gerður Bang. The traditional meeting of the NATO Commission and the ambassador to the NATO Member States, the Council of Northern Atlantic, which has the highest decision within the Community, was held at NATO's headquarters on February 19. At the same time, the ambassadors of the Member States prepared a reply for members of the Parliament, while discussions were conducted by Jens Stoltenberg, the head of the Community, who also delivered the introduction. Stoltenberg spoke, including of the main focus of the next NATO summit conducted in Brussels in July 2018, on the threat of terrorism, on the importance of Member States making contributions for safety and protection and the uncertainty of Russia's intentions. Then he stressed that the alliance must ensure a balance between coping with challenges that come from the east and the south. The annual meeting of the NATO Council committee began this time in Vilnius, March 24. Among the main programs of the meeting, the neurotoxic attack in Britain on March 4, 2018, and the NATO convention had been dealt with Russia. In addition, there was a debate over the NATO work programme and budget for 2018 and Lithuania's policy on security and protection. For the rest of the Council of NATO, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, as well as Gunnþóra Elín Erlingsdóttir's daughter, was a skilled secretary. A annual spring meeting of the NATO Council was held in Warsaw days 25,◯28. May, 2018. For the rest of Iceland at the NATO Council, the meeting was attended by Director Jerry Friðbertsson, along with Secretary Arna Gerður Bang. At the spring Summits of the NATO Council, the topic committees work reporting and meeting with representatives of governments and international institutions and experts. Then there is a meeting in which you will discuss the issues of international security and defense. The main point of the meeting was the situation in Russia, focusing on involvement in elections and wrong information, and the fight against the threat of terrorism. The situation was also discussed in Iran, Syria's conflict, the refugee problem, the state of North Korea, and energy security. In addition to representatives from 22 additional Member States and audiences, over 260 members attended the meeting. The spring meeting decided that Ruxandra Popa would take over the work of the Council of NATO in 2019 by David Hobbs, who has served since 2008. In addition, there was work in a working group on education and a presentation of the safety and activities of NATO in the Member States. In Njáll, Ramídi Friðbertsson, who joined the committee meetings, joined the committee. emphasis on the importance of informing young people about the core aims of the Community in connection with historical development and the changed state of world security today. A question list has been sent from the NATO Council to the Education Council of all Member States requesting information on the implementation of security education in basic schools of the EU. The personal assembly of NATO was held on May 28, where the nobles gave a reply and answered the questions of the delegates. Among those giving talks were Paolo Alli, president of the National Council, Marek Kuchcinski, president of the Polish Congress, Andrzej Duda, president of Poland, Mateusz Morawiecki, prime minister of Poland, and Jens Stoltenberg, secretary of NATO. The president of the NATO Council set up a meeting and said, in fact, In view of the new threat of safety, it would especially be directed toward the defenses of the Member States. In 2014, the Member States would have been forced to reverse decades of defense cuts after the Russian population illegally entered the Crimea. They were moving closer to the goal that 2% of GDP is spent on defense in 2024, although some countries have to set up a strategy to achieve that goal. Then Alli said: "Because we're together with the members responsible for the budget of the member countries, it's clear that the NATO is an important role in achieving a solidarity in the fair distribution of the pressures of our joint defenses. It was a matter of military success and political solidarity. A annual meeting of the NATO Council was held in Halifax, on the 16th to 19th. November 2018. From the Council of NATO, of Iceland, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson attended president of the United States and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, as well as Deputy Director Arna Gönar Bang. Some 300 senators from 28 Member States and representatives of 13 other countries attended the annual meeting. The conference's main talks were held in five judicial committees of the council, based on reports published by members of the Committee, and lectures by international experts on safety matters. Then a meeting was held that discussed the issues that have been best discussed in the international security and defense talk and that have chosen for the decision and decision of the council. The main topic of the meeting was North East, Space Control, the cooperation of NATO and the European Union, the conflict in Syria, and missile control. There was also a debate over the militarization of social media and false news. At the meeting of the NATO Committee, there were some cases. making a decision on the activities and main topics of the NATO Council during the first part of 2019. Emphasis will include: Applying the knowledge and experience that NATO has gained during her 70 - year anniversary of work in 2019 C.E. The way the coalition can deal with many new challenges facing and securing its ability and the necessary strength to fulfill its commitments will be directed into the eyes. Then Russia's affairs will continue to focus, and the situation in Syria, as well as with increasing attention to Africa. On November 19, the personal assembly of NATO was held, where dignitaries delivered a reply and answered the questions of the delegates. Among those delivering were Rasa Jukneviciene, the retired president of the NATO Council, Singh Sajjan Sijjan, the Canadian Secretary of Defense, and Rose Gottemoeller, assistant director of NATO. Jukneviciene stressed the importance of the solidarity of NATO member countries during a number of times of safety threats due to terrorism and the instability of south of Europe, as well as the hostile position of Russia in the east. The Canadian Secretary of Defense, Singh Sajjan Sajjan, even more important than ever before, in view of new threats. Whether a more aggressive Russian behavior in Eastern Europe or an increasing instability in many parts of the world would be faced with an even more complex threat. At the annual meeting, British senator Madeleine Moon, new president of the NATO Council, took over the office of Rasa Jukneviciene of Lithuania. In his speech, Moon emphasized the importance of Member States'commitment to defenses as well as their emphasis on strengthening the lead of the young generation and of the partners of NATO. Furthermore, she stressed equality in NATO as an outside language and referred to the United Nations No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. She said that there has been great success in the fields of equality over the past decade and that she wanted to ensure continued awareness of the inestimable role of women in a broad sense. Previously, Clare Hutchinson, a special representative of women, peace and security from NATO, had presented to the delegates the results of a recent investigation of equality with NATO, which included: It was stated that 12% of the partners of the Community were women. She said that this number was all too low, but the trend might be faster. It emphasized the importance of the introduction of equality into all of NATO's activities, both military and political structure. Furthermore, sexual abuse and harassment within NATO would have to be eliminated without delay. The north side of Trausti Friðbertsson called attention to the affairs of the north and to the increased importance of the region in international discussions. He said geographically, improved access to natural resources, and the impact of climate change has opened the world's eyes to opportunities and challenges in the area. With the increased importance of business and regional political change, people feared for greater tension between coastal countries in the north, but the Russians had already increased their military strategy there. In view of this development, and in view of the fact that five of NATO's Member States have areas in the north, National Trausti Rose Gottemoeller, assistant Njáll of NATO, asked whether they believed that NATO should have increased involvement in the affairs of the north. Gottemoeller explained that Arctic issues were very important, and existing climate change had increased interest in the region. She said that NATO could be more effective when it comes to northern affairs and that the Union relied on its member states in the north, such as Norway and Iceland, to provide guidance on these matters. Iceland's committees attended a number of committees this year. In March Doha and September of Madrid and Lisbon, a Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir attended a meeting of the Defense and Security Committee. She also attended the Council of NATO in Washington in December. In May, in Oslo and Bodø, and in October San NjállFriðbertsson she attended a meeting of the Scientific and Technical Committee. He also attended a meeting of political committees in New York City and Boston in October. Then the president of the Council of NATO visited in May. Under this report, Njáll Traustir Friðbertsson writes president of the United States of France, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter is vice president and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Arna Bang, secretary of Iceland, for good and satisfying cooperation with the Committee's work. This report is considerably more significant than I have been in my case and would like to encourage members of the Parliament to study it. There's a major and important group of subjects at the Council of NATO, and there's a wide variety of members in the council. Then I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson for his review of the report. He introduced many important issues. I'd like to, because it was at the end that he had asked the head of the north, to ask him how he viewed the position of NATO in the north. Russia has been much stronger there in all equipment such as icebreakers; how he looks at it, and what development has taken place in the past few years and what discussion has been made at NATO meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u56	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. What we only see last year is that major changes are in the North Atlantic. What happens is that last August 23 was set open to the U.S. Navy base in Norfolk. It is a naval base that was shut down in 2011. However, because of its increased intensity and importance in war itself, it was opened again in August. We can also see what happened in Greenland with the airports now in September and the events that set out there and shows some place where people stand, such as the airports there. The Chinese had already offered to raise the airport in Greenland. The Danski prime minister came almost the next day, and then the home administration fell, and a letter came from the United States that they would be willing to inspect the flight funding for both civil and military use. We see an incredible speed of events just this fall. In September, a large carrier was located south of the country. We haven't seen a ship like this in 30 years in the North Atlantic. This naval station in Norfolk, which is being built up and built again, is to concentrate on the Atlantic with special emphasis on the North Atlantic. It's natural to look at the shrinking ice in the Arctic as a result of climate change and warming and what Russia's equipment has been setting up, and then to examine the Russian subs of the Barents and the propagation of the submarines that appear there. Russia has been strengthening this activity in a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u57	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir To the review of this report, the Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson is detailed, as noted in his case. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn's daughter helped me with some of the things I was going to discuss, that's fine, I can turn to another. The report discusses education for young people in the country of NATO, what NATO is doing, and what is its purpose. How do we feel about this? Is anyone working on this? I think it's very important for all of us, whether we are old or young, I don't talk about future recipients, that humans realize how important it is for us to be in NATO on the changed world scene ahead. Hv. A senator entered all the traffic that will be coming to the north of us. I have to guess, too. A senator has been tireless in his work to communicate information to us about the technology ahead of him about monitoring the world oceans by satellite and the like. It would also be fascinating if he could introduce only the ideas he has there and what is being discussed in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u58	Mr. President. It's been set up for about a year since the NATO Council was started and there's a lot of interest among the senators there that better education is being done on the matters of NATO and NATO, just in general about NATO and its purpose in the world. After the Cold War ended in 1990, this knowledge declined considerably and is very limited among younger people, especially in the United States, Canada, and Western Europe. It turns out that the people of Eastern Europe are fine on NATO. This may be necessary because people feel a different threat from the western part of Europe in Russia. It's just like that, that's where these matters are taken very seriously. The purpose of my work in the group I sit on is to consider what you can do to try to better introduce the activities of NATO and the NATO to the public in these countries. I think it's absolutely necessary in Iceland to introduce it better. We called for the committee in the winter of Silja Bára Ómarsdóttir of the University of Iceland, who has had a study conducted in the last summer of Iceland's knowledge of NATO. It is small and has given much to do in recent years. This is a very important aspect, and I think we need to improve people's knowledge of these activities. The purpose of this group is to go to the campaign to introduce NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u59	A respectable president. I miss not getting the answer to the second question. Probably because of lack of time. Senator. It was discussed on a job committee, but I had the privilege of meeting there the other day. Then the fishing fleet and all the fishing ships and freight transports that take place around the country were under surveillance. It is quite clear that it will increase as a person sets sail over the North Pole and the like when it comes to it. I expect that. A senator takes the time to teach us a little and answer the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u60	President. I'm one of the vice-presidents of the NATO Scientific Committee. There you get a lot of information, and we study specific subjects that are involved in technology. This will increase my interest in these changes in technology and technology. A satellite account, satellite formation, and their range across north-south trails are a big interest in me, used in flying history, self-driving cars, science and technology, and all of this, so I'm trying to draw attention to the objects involved. I think it's extremely important to us for the future that we have access to satellites. Today there are few European countries with access to these systems as limited as we do. Another point that the senator is referring to the meeting in a professional committee is that of unmanned air travel. I think it would be very exciting to try to create the situation here that we could study how this can serve our interests in the north, in Icelandic jurisdiction, over Greenland, and north of the sea. Today we are building an unmanned aircraft that may have been most well - known for being in warfare. It is used in many other ways, including the use of science and research. They can last 48 hours and can benefit us tremendously in many areas, including monitoring the land cover and various related areas and then only a much larger area. That's one of the things I want to see happen to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u61	Mr. President. I deliver a report from the European Parliamentary Committees for EFTA and EEA by 2018. The European Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the European Economic Area, EEA, play an important role as the foundation of the Icelandic foreign trade. With its involvement in the EEA, Iceland is largely the same business group as 30 other European countries, with some 500 million markets. In addition to the implementation of the EEA Convention, EFTA has built up a powerful network of free trade agreements with non-EU countries or so-called third countries, but I'm going to enter this whole thing afterwards. It is good to relate that the Committee's activities were traditional in 2018. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee met three times, including twice in connection with EFTA conferences. Furthermore, the Directorate of Congress Committee EFTA had a meeting with committees, councilors, and institutions in Buenos Aires and Montevideo on vacation business. The EEA Parliamentary Committee regularly met for a meeting during the year. At that time, the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Iceland and the EU held one meeting during the year. Briefly on the construction of the Council Committees EFTA and EEA. In fact, there are two separate committees, and there is also another third committee, called the EFTA and the European Parliament Committee. They are formally separated by a range of tasks and slightly different committees in the other EFTA and the EEA, e.g. Switzerland has an audience only to the EEA Parliamentary Committee. These committees are as appointed by the Generals. The joint Parliamentary Committee of Iceland and the EU is then composed of the departments of these committees, with five members of the State Department. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, chairman of the joint council. The Italian departments of the committees appoint President Smári Mccarthy, Vice President Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Braunger Níelsson's son, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and Jón Gunnarsson. The secretary of the committee was Stígur Stefánsson, who has been absolutely invaluable in his assistance, and I thank him for it. Rather than going to each meeting for themselves - although they were many and interested ones can read about them in the report - I intend to enter the work of the committees by considering the main areas of paint. One thing that has been very prominent in the work of the Committee for the past year is Bgret. We have had many meetings for the proposed EU discharge of Britain and its impact on the communication between the EFTA countries with the United Kingdom. These included meetings in London and Brussels, along with the presence of experts in other meetings. Main panel members of the British Parliament were the Bfenit Committee of the Lower Department under Hilary Benn, the International Business Committee of the same branch under the leadership of Nigel Evans, the European Department of Guards under the leadership of Hilary Benn, and the Controller's Strategy Committee on Bgreit under the leadership of Boswell Ford, Keir Starmers, the Seamate for Bgret and Michels Barniers, the major EU Convention on Bgreit. Then EFTA members met with Alan Duncan, assistant minister of the State Department of State, Hands Hands, assistant minister of international trade, Suellu Fernandes, member of the Ministry of Exploitation, who has, in fact, resigned and also married so that she no longer has the same last name. The main text of all meetings was EFTA's members. pointing to the importance of a business relationship between Britain and EFTA, but annual business is more than 50 billion pounds [50 billion kg]. About 10% of EFTA exports goes to Britain, and the EFTA countries are buying more than 5% of their service export. There are about 54,000 citizens of the EFTA states in Britain and a similar number of British countries in the EFTA. The European Union of Britain and EEA/EFTA countries is based on the EEA agreements and participating in the EU internal market, while the European Union and Switzerland's two-sided agreement on the latter with the EU. In the event of the interim protocol, it is clear that such communication remains unchanged until the end of 2020. But now there's been so much stirr in these Bgrets that almost impenetrables are keeping in touch with what happens at any time. Thus, it may be difficult to say something precise about how this will look after a few months. The future trade system for Britain after EU discharge and, hence, from the EEA Treaty, is an enormous interest in EFTA state, with Britain being one of the biggest business partners of both Iceland and Norway in the EEA. There are many possibilities for how this might go down, but the most important conclusion is that in some way there will be some agreement between the EEA and the United Kingdom afterwards, e.g. by the four EFTA states making a deal with Britain that the three EFTA countries without Switzerland made a two- sided agreement with the United Kingdom. One of the objectives of EFTA by building the network of free trade agreements is to ensure the competitiveness of companies in the EFTA countries against enterprises within the EU on the market. EFTA committees have loyally supported the process of free trade agreements made with the UN and have used eFTA embassies and members of Congress visits. As a result, we are closely monitored on the committee's progress and development of free trade agreements, and we visit the so - called Third Reich every year to support the process of free trade agreements. After signing a contract with Ecuador on June 25, 2018, the EFTA treaties amounted to 39 countries. At the same time, a signing of the current EFTA free trade deal was signed for the council of Turkey from 1992, and the agreement, including an updated agreement, was updated. to product and services trade, origination, protection of mental rights and sustainable development. EFTA now has a free business venture on India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, and Mercosur, four South America's customs alliance; Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay. We had a visit with the Mercosur countries last year. This year, 2019 of the European Parliament's Committee has decided to go to South Korea to pressure the government to start a conversation with EFTA on an update on a 2005 holiday contract that added business to the standards laid down in the EU holiday contract and South Korea from 2015. So we're always in this vacation business trying to follow the European Union at worst. Only on the effectiveness of the EEA Convention because one of the most important aspects of the European Parliamentary Committee is monitoring the effectiveness of the contract and ensuring good success. This year the European Economic Convention will be 25 years old. As everyone should be aware, this is the most important international agreement in Iceland involved in others. These contracts are of more importance than simply so that no other contract has as much and a positive effect on the lives of Icelanders every day as it does the EEA. It is the common responsibility of the EEA/EFTA countries and the EU to ensure the implementation of the contract. It is important that organizations work as they were supposed to. Monitoring performance is good and the recording hall is so-called, i.e. The list of issues that are still in progress from being determined in the European Parliament and the Council until they are implemented in the EEA, that all of this is well worked. About the middle of 2018, more than half of them were under financial market surveillance. Despite this vast number of recording types, it was published in a case of the highest magnitude. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, at our meeting that more types had been recorded in the EEA Convention in 2017 than ever before, or 514. Approximately 150 types in that field are expected to be recorded in the EEA Convention during the first half of 2019 which substantially reduces the uptake balance. The importance of the recording of the EU contract is to ensure a legal harmony in the internal market, which is one of the essential functions. Iceland has improved its effectiveness in this field, but during the year, the General Assembly's guidelines on the terms of European Parliamentary management were reviewed with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of EU production and production. Then the State Department gave out the report Benefits: Steps towards improving the implementation of the EEA Convention over the year, with the proposal for action to be carried out. These include extending the specific support of the Ministry of Professional Services to ensure the timely implementation of EEA types and granting of Iceland's embassies to the EU in Brussels so that all departments are represented there. I've considered material that I prepared extracts, which I did a little faster than I expected, but that's just the best thing. Of course, there are many other issues that have been on the top of the Council committees of EFTA and EEA during the year. These include the development of international trade and the status of the International Business Agency, Internet security, work protection and sustainable development regulations in free trades, consumers business, #metoo and labour markets and other things. Of course, it's enough to take away when we're talking about this huge vacation network that we're involved in. By working hard at this job and making sure that the role of Iceland in this committee, and in all the activities of EFTA, is being done high below them, we are making sure that our interests are in the first place in all the negotiations and jobs involved in the internal market. In my case, I've added a little something to the work of EFTA and EEA committees, which is partly due to the nature of these two committees. They are largely integrated. It's the same people who come to meetings in most ways, but the job at EFTA and the EEA continues to be under the leadership of Iceland in 2019, and there are many things to do with continued development in this series. I think it's very important that the EEA treats the contract at high point in the 25th year of the contract and I hope the Council can be with the Commission in the aim of trying to do this one of the greatest year for the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u62	A respectable president. I present a report by the International Parliament before 2018. Of the many and varied issues discussed at the International Parliament's Association in 2018, several things that Iceland's department claims to stand out in view of the objectives of the Union that are working out for peace and cooperation among nations and that are in support of a representative council and democracy. First, there is a discussion on how to improve the global solution to immigrants and refugees. The International Parliament's resolution on the subject emphasized the best procedure, including the best procedure. in terms of increased predictable long-term contributions and increased coordination of humanitarian support and development cooperation. In addition, women were directed to as refugees, focusing on their rights in the reception country and on the possibility of employment and adaptation. This year the issue was further focused on the battle against climate change and concluded the relationship on the matter. Congress members were encouraged to use national campaigns to combat global warming and were called upon to act on member states to introduce the United Nations Paris Convention on Climate Change, approved in 2016. In addition, lasting peace was concluded as the basis for sustainable development, which shows a link between successful implementation of the UN's global objectives and lasting peace and that the structure of strong structures and institutions, such as Congress, is an essential factor. There was also a general debate over the role of regional councils in promoting peace and development during the era of innovation and technology. It was emphasized that the gap between science and politics would have to be prevented, especially in the light of the increased scope of policy development, instead of fact and evidence. At that time, the position of women in the world's national conventions was repeatedly discussed and how their access to politics might be increased. Other major issues are discussed in the introduction of the report and other emphasis this year. In general, the report on the International Assembly, which includes a total of 178 National Congress, is also a special feature, and the regular committees and advice that work within it are discussed. The ship and function of the International Parliamentary Association is that the head of Iceland's Department in 2018 was Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigrnjörndóttir, the Council of Independence, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the Congress of the Central Party, and Ágústsson Ólafur Águgussson, the House of Congress. The Watchmen were Bergþór Ólason, members of the Central Party, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, the Group of the United Nations, and Jón Gunnarsson, the House of Independence. Bang was the department's international secretary, and she deserves a great deal of gratitude for her cooperation and cooperation during the year, all the preparation and help that members received in this work last year. The Iceland Department held three meetings in 2018, which were mainly designed for participation in the IPU Parliaments. Each year there are two conferences, the spring and the autumn council. There are also more meetings, and the North countries are assigned to lead in the North American group, which was also met twice a year, both in the former Sweden. In addition to the participation by the chairman of those meetings, there was trouble. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson is involved in the annual meeting of the United Nations in New York, February I'm going to review a few reports of meetings attended by the Iceland Department. First, on March 9, Sweden, a meeting of Norwegian countries, which discussed the results of the Fall Summit of the International Assembly in Petersburg in October of the year earlier, was reviewing the importance of a representative of the Norwegian states in most meetings of the International Assembly and particularly among the young members of Parliament. That topic is very active in the International Parliament and has increased in recent years, but I have participated in the meetings of young senators. Moreover, the main discussions of the autumn Parliament and the division of members of the Council in the regular committee and the future development of the Norwegian consultations, which are good to prepare us for our role to have the greatest impact in the International Parliament, in its autumn and spring conventions. They're exchangeed for consultation in the Norwegian countries. In March Geneva, all members of Congress held the spring Summit, where main programs turned about lasting peace as the basis for sustainable development, how to activate the private sector for increased participation in the implementation of UN global objectives and how to build sustainable communities. An external debate on the consequences of the U.S. government declarations was also held to accept Jerusalem as the capital of the kingdom of Israel and on the rights of the Palestinians in Jerusalem. At that time, the twelve-plus group, who is a co-founder of Western democracy, is also meeting, covering various matters. It has a special committee of human rights for members of Parliaments, and it plays a significant role and does a great deal between members of Congress; it reviews members of Congress whose rights have been violated, whether incarcerated by members of Congress, threats, beatings, disappearances, or deaths. This spring council offered proposals for an emergency resolution, as is customary at the beginning of the council, and may take one matter outside the program of each council according to the rules. Before you chose, as noted earlier, the proposal for the consequences of the U.S. government's declarations to accept Jerusalem as the capital of the kingdom of Israel and to the rights of Palestine in Jerusalem was proposed. At that time, political, economic, and social conditions were generally discussed, and they were directed to how to improve their global solutions to immigrants and refugees. Two United Nations activities were reviewed. It was emphasized to follow the best procedure, and it also emphasized that assistance is looked for gender-distingencies and that there is considerable information and to support countries that receive a large number of refugees. More issues were then discussed in special committees, both economic and business, security, and other issues of sustainable development, as detailed in the report. The second Norwegian meeting was held in Kiruna 22 on September to prepare the fall council. The one standing here attended that meeting. The budget and funding of the International Parliament and the contributions of countries to this cooperation were considered well. There was also a debate over the results of the spring council and other conferences that have taken place between these Norwegian meetings, but the Norwegian countries have been acting confidentially in most of the International Parliament committee committees as well as the executives in recent years, with its importance repeated and specifically discussing the importance of the topic of discussion by the young members of the International Parliament. Signed, says that all three members of Iceland are still members of a group of young senators by the definition of the Union, which, based on the opinion that young senators are 45 years of age and younger, which may be just a clearer definition than we put in this definition of young members of Congress. They discussed the new topic on the role of Congress to end discrimination on the basis of sex and sexual orientation and to ensure respect for the human rights of LGBTI. The vote for a conversation would be agreed on. During the spring Summit, a lot of discussions had developed, and the representatives of all geographical groups spoke up, and they were very concerned about putting these matters on the program for a discussion. As a result, a decision was made to postpone the vote to the fall. In the meantime, the National Department of Iran sent a letter and demanded that the material not be discussed in this field of human rights and democracy. The secretary - general of the International Parliament considered matters that are not precedents in the relationship, and we agreed at the Norwegian conference to support the development of the matter wholeheartedly, and this is especially important in view of the main objective of the International Parliament, which is to promote the improvement of human rights and democracy in the world. The result was perhaps It would be appropriate to revise the purpose of the relationship if there could be no controversial discussion at the International Parliamentary Council. The Council itself, conducted at Geneva 14,◯18. October 2018, all of Iceland's members attended. The main debate was to conclude on the role of free and independent commerce and investments in achieving the UN global objectives and how to strengthen the cooperation of immigrants in the light of the UN Global Compact Convention for Safety, Orderly and Reicual Migration, as well as on the role of Congress in promoting peace and development in the era of innovation and technology. The external conference was for combating climate change and was adopted on the basis of it and elected a few suggestions for an emergency resolution in which climate change was chosen. Furthermore, a women's meeting was held in connection with the council that discussed women and their rights, the possibility of employment and adjustment, including women and their rights, as well as their potential for employment and adjustment. Because of manalism and violence. At the council itself, there were 1,500 participants, some 750 members and 33% women. In conclusion on climate change, members were encouraged to put up a national effort to combat climate change and, after its importance, to correct the activities of the Member States in bringing in the United Nations Paris Convention, which was followed by a general debate on the political, economic, and social situation of the world. Faced the role of regional conventions in promoting peace and development, as noted earlier. Signed in the conferences for Iceland and highlighted the importance of equality and education in the development of technology and innovation, as well as in more detail in the report. This council also presented a very interesting report on the results of a large study of the International Parliament and the European Parliament on gender discrimination and sexual violence and harassment against women in the European Parliament. The results of the study were rather striking, with 85% of the women enrolled in the study experiencing some sort of sexual, mental violence at the councils. At that time, women under the age of 40 are more likely to be harassed, and women members of Congress are more likely to be sexually violent than members of Congress. The report is the first in a series of regional studies involving sexual violence and harassment to women in the World Congress. It is based on extensive interviews with women from 45 European countries, 81 of whom were members of the Council, and 42 were employees. Finally, a vote at a conference was made on whether it might be possible for the discussion I covered in the role of Congress to end discrimination on the basis of sex and sexual orientation and to ensure respect for LGBTI human rights. It was specifically noted that the matter would not be reasoned but that it would be discussed. There had been a heated discussion at the spring convention, and the northern countries were together to support this proposal, which was expressed at the vote of 636 against 499 votes, but countries have different number of votes by size. We voted with the proposal, along with most European countries, and will no doubt be included in a Norwegian meeting, which will be held in March, end up in a very special relationship. The purpose of promoting improved human rights and democracy in the world cannot be discussed with LGBTI rights. The next meeting of the International Assembly will be held in Doha, the capital of Katar, in April following a Norwegian conference held in Oslo, Norway. The report provides an overview of the conclusions and statements made by the International Parliamentary Union in 2018. Under this report, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir wrote to Chairman Winbjörn and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u63	Mr. President. So far, I haven't known very much about the International Assembly. It speaks of the emphasis being placed on protecting human rights in the world as well as on the fundamental part of democracies and Congress. At that time, the IPU is working to strengthen the U.S. Congress and aid in the development of democracies within them. This can be read in the general section. Hv. This survey was presented and discussed at the council yesterday, why, was the case with a member of the council. The members of Birgir Þórarinsson and Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir discussed it here. I feel that it is clearly in the spirit of the idea behind which we discussed under the general chapter. These are 1,78 nations, and the report speaks of promoting peace and development in the era of innovation and technology. It is emphasized that the gap between science and politics will have to be prevented, especially in view of the increased scope of policy development, rather than fact and evidence. At that time, the position of women in the world's conventions was repeatedly discussed and how their access to politics might be increased. Then there are things like Internet security and nuclear weapons, it's gone very far. But how does the Senate win? How does it go on? That concludes and agrees. Are there any further reports, or how do people continue to work at it? You can also see that this is a support factor behind the United Nations when you read the report. How does the International Parliament work out its goals at work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. That's right, it's done on a lot of things, and a lot of things are discussed. The Senate's heading is often quite open, giving a little space for these many countries to give their perspective on things. There are certain fixed committees for peace and security, for sustainable development, for economic and commercial matters, for democracy and human rights, and for the affairs of the United Nations. These committees meet again and conduct a special assembly on a certain subject to continue the issues that are concluded at these great autumn and spring conventions. This often involves more precise work, more details, how things can be done, when coming back to the council, what the focus is, and what we can get along with. Of course, it is really interesting to serve in the International Parliament, for it has a representative of 178 Assembly. There you can see how the world is divided, how far, or how near it is, in the way of many kingdoms, mainly when it comes to human rights and democracy. So, of course, I find it interesting that such tests, such as what happened. A senator pointed to the beginning of his opposition, directed toward the European countries. I think it would be first interesting to see what the numbers would be like if we looked beyond that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u65	A respectable president. I shall begin with a general discussion of the European Parliament and the European Parliament and review its role. The European Parliament is often called a watchdog on the rights of human rights; its role is to protect the core ideals of the Member States for human rights, democracy and legal states, as well as to promote economic and social progress. With this objective, the Council uses it even. The format and agreement of a binding international agreement. Controversies and international treatys of the European Council have had widespread impact on the entire continent. The number of covenants of the Council in various aspects of national life is an important measure for nations that are developing democracy and justice, but the measure of the European Council also applies to other international organisations and international organisations. It features the European Convention and the European Social Convention. Since the end of the Cold War, the Council of Europe has been The key role of supporting democracies in CEE countries, including with technical assistance in the area of law and government development, as well as election control. The number of members of the Governing Body has increased rapidly since the Berlin Wall fell and is now 47. Montenegro is the newest member of the United States, which broke off national relations with Serbia after a national payment in May 2006 and became a member of the Council of Europe in May 2007. As a result, the European Council's countries form one unbroken geographic entity in the continent, with the exception of White Russia. The European Parliament is a representative of the 47 member states of the European Parliament. At the council, 324 agents and just as many are represented. Unlike the Council of Europe's Ministers, where each country has one vote, a number of delegates will follow the size of a nation. At the council, there are nine regular committees and six groups. At that time, the president, 20 vice presidents, presidents of regular committees and groups of members of the Council's Commission, oversees its internal affairs. It gathers quarterly, one week at a time, usually in January, April, June, and October. The Board of Directors meets three times between meetings. Finally, in Strasbourg, a joint committee of the Council of Ministers convened together with meetings of the European Parliament. The Council of Europe is a kind of the European Parliament's concept of politics, economics, social issues, human rights, environmental and energy, cultural and educational issues. The importance of the council is mainly to take the initiative to take action and direct suggestions to the Minister of Ministers, to monitor the level of international commitments, and to press quick action if there is a failure and to be a basis for communication and consultation with members of the Member States, thus strengthening the cultural culture and promoting the ties of Congress. The European Parliament's meetings discuss and reason on the basis of committees. The Parliament can direct recommendations and opinions to the Minister's Committee that deals with them and responds to events by direct action. Thus, the European Parliament often takes the initiative in making multinational covenants legally binding on Member States. For example, in 2008 the European Convention on Human Rights Action is rooted in the conclusions of the Council of Europe between 1997 and 2002. The European Council's treaty to combat sexual violence and domestic violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, is also in line with the conclusion of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is a multinational organization where members of all European countries, apart from the White Russia, work together on equal terms. At the same time, the European Parliament's work has a direct bearing on the work of the Parliament, where representatives of the European Parliament are members of the local Parliament, in contrast with those of their own countries. for the European Parliament. Thus, conferences of the Council of Europe, where members of the Parliament compare their books and exchange ideas, are a very important contribution to home legislative work and have speeded up the rapid democratic development that has taken place in Europe after the Cold War has ended and supported it. Experience has shown that countries with clear goals within the council and who strive to achieve them can have an effect far beyond their size and political volume. This fact clearly sheds light on the importance of Icelandic participation in the European Parliament and its interests. Then, if we review the last year of the Council of Europe, 2018, and the biggest issues that existed there, there were two of the biggest issues in the European Parliament relations between the Parliament and the European Council with the Russians and the handling of corruption within the council itself. In 2014, Russia's national division was stripped of voting rights in the Council of Europe because of Russia's involvement with the Ukraine conflict and the reinvestment of Crimeagans. The same happened when the Russians sent their division in 2015 and the Russians have not sent a unit to the European Parliament since then. Thus, the Russians have not participated in the work of the European Parliament for the past four years and thus did not contribute to the elected judges at the European Court of Human Rights or the European Commission. In the summer of 2017, the Russians announced that they would be held after their Member States' payments to the Council of Europe until they would be fully involved in all institutions of the Council, including the European Parliament. At the council's scene and the Special Committee on the role and projects of the council, the decision to change the rules of the Council of the European Parliament was taken so that the Council was not able to disbarrent the national department of its voting rights. Such order would have met the Russian demand to appoint a new platoon without risk of losing its voting rights. A lot of debate arose over the proposals of the Parliamentary Committee of the Parliament that were proposed in October. Finally, following a meeting of the committee in December, a panel issued an interpretation of the seminars. The Council of Congress concluded that the provision of the Council's Constitution, of the right of a member of the Member States to make elections to the European Parliament's institutions, was a higher requirement for the removal of the voting rights. Thus, following comments to votes, the country's voting rights could not be the rights to participate in these elections. After reports of corruption among the Councils of Europe in 2017, an independent committee of corruption within the council was set up. The NTSB returned its report at the beginning of the April meeting. The report gave evidence of an abnormally close relationship between various present and former European Parliaments with the Azerbaijan government. In order to address the information presented in this report, the European Parliament has adopted a decision-making form among members of the Parliament. Congress members should continue to submit their renovations to the end of February each year, which is published on the meeting's Web site. Senators do not fill out their interest logs, or they find that they hide information in the registry, they are deprived of the right to handle confidential matters for the council. Each year a list of members of Parliaments who have not submitted a conflict registration is published. Last year a study of sexual harassment was conducted in European Parliaments. The study was conducted simultaneously in the Council of Europe and in the International Parliament. A broad group of contours and senators were sought for participation. The results of this study were striking, such as the one currently on and off. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's field of conversation last night showed that 85% of the female Parliamentes had experienced sexual spiritual violence in their activities. The study is considered in the report of a meeting of the Commission in November. I would also like to encourage interested persons to locate the report on the European Parliament's homepage, where they can more closely examine the details of this extensive yet significant study. I present to people interested in further researching the conclusions, recommendations and opinions of the European Parliament last year on a link that can be found on the World War II website. It presents an opinion and a recommendation to the Council of Ministers, approved at meetings and committee meetings of the Council last year. This is a very remarkable conclusion that deals with human rights matters, condemnation of the bad state of human rights in many countries, and a great and remarkable and good guide when it comes to human rights in many lands, as we have seen here. A respectable president. In this way, I will complete this tour on behalf of the Council of Europe for the Council of Iceland, who sit at Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótur and Bergþór Ólason, but the deputy members of the Council of Europe are the Þórarinsson, Halldóra Mogensen and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. On behalf of the Iceland Department, I'll finish this number here, but I encourage interested persons to learn more about the good and remarkable work being done in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u66	Mr. President. I'm here as a private representative of the Council of the European Parliament and I wanted to discuss only this remarkable institution, use this opportunity here to talk about the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe, the importance and the history and the extent of our crosswords now, because I believe it has a full purpose in the discussion we have here on the annual report. The Council of Europe celebrates the 70th anniversary of this year. This was established in the wake of World War II. As I have always understood, two schools of international experts were wondering how to prevent World War II from once again, that another war would break out in Europe, and the nations would lose millions in such wars. One school saw the need for an economic relationship between these nations, especially France and Germany, and it would have to be economicly adverse for nations to go to war with one another within Europe. This led to the Kola and steel alliance, which later became the European Union. It has been so successful too, anyway, the European Union is not much at war between its members. It was also another school, perhaps more from the British while Benelux countries spoke clearly to the European Union, that there would be some sort of convergence or diplomatic club where Europe's people could talk together, to come to a joint conclusion, a united international release and covenant, and to work together in a multinational field. This led to the Council of Europe. This is my basic understanding of how the Council of Europe came into existence. It's a very remarkable institution. It consists of 47 states, although it did not begin with so many. It has three baseline values, human rights, democracy, and a state of justice, an enormously important value. The nations leading up to this institution have a declared goal of working toward those values and strengthening one another in it. Among these are the European Parliament, where 324 representatives from these 47 countries meet to discuss various issues and specifically deliver reports and references to Member States and monitor human rights protection, political protection and democratic protection within their Member States. It's a very strong scene because of that, like a cot. paritaprevir The President of the European Parliament, Resak Björk Bryfjörk Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörður, came into just moments ago, with representatives of the National Assembly and therefore both of its people's affairs and their commission to represent them at this council. This often results in a lively discussion and, very often, important changes. An example of this is a report by a Swiss senator named Dick Marty on a flight to prison in Europe. I may have missed that report, but at least I haven't forgotten it. As a result of a report, 200 planes linked to the U.S. federal agency were living in one country at a time and then flying to the U.S. secret jails everywhere where people were tortured. I'm sure someone must have participated in this at home, hardly missed any living men in Iceland that it was going on, but there's not been enough answers to whether it was the case. I don't think it's been adequately studied. However, this report came from the Council of Europe and had a broad impact throughout Europe, resulting in a much better surveillance by those who were allowed to come here and in the middle of countries and in other countries and in a particular way converted the landscape into prisons at all sides of the United States Black Prison. There is just one example of one report that has taken a considerable interest from this council, even though there are few reports. Like what? paritaprevir The Red Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir came in earlier is one of the biggest issues in the European Parliament today the Russian absence. They haven't sent a delegation to the council since 2015. They also refuse to pay their legal dues to the Council of Europe so that cut-off could occur and that could take up to 15% of the European Council. This could possibly have a serious effect on what many people choose to call the European Council flagship, which is the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, many would like to protect themselves from the European Court of Human Rights. The European Council also provides a European Commission on defenses against torture and demeaning or inhuman treatment or punishment. That committee plays a vital role. Should we cut down there? I have found that the European Commission and the European Commission's European Commission, and elsewhere, and all those I've talked to as a parent, can give rise to the capital of the European Council whether the governments of the European Commission are prepared to support this organisation and make sure that we do not have to cut down the important work we do in the Council of Europe. I haven't been able to tell you clearly, and I'm sorry. I'm the highest. Our minister of state to seriously consider whether he will lead a group of countries who will strengthen the European Council in that they do not need to cut down their operations because the Russians refuse to pay their legal dues. In the few minutes that I have left, Mr. President, I want to kill on that last summer, I was elected president of the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Committee. I really care about this role that I was assigned to do, and I deeply appreciate that I have been entrusted with it. And what a joy it is to be able to do this because in it you meet with an amazing number of the challenges of the important work being carried out in the European Parliament! In their own lands, and even in all Europe, there are very many members of the organization who are fighting for a more just world. Sometimes you can also participate in international conventions and other events on behalf of the Committee. I even got one. Having an entrance to the UN General Assembly, where various countries, 37 countries, are trying to develop a regular program to prevent products that can only be used for torture. There are horrible tools. There, the world's countries are going to try to negotiate a system that prevents the use of only tools for torture, or that are likely to be used for torture, not buying and selling, and that is not being sold to countries that are likely to take advantage of these devices, and that also bring on a universal agreement with some of these products. It was very interesting. It was the highest. Secretary of State, too, to announce that there was a chance of improving the rule in Iceland so that we would do our part to help get the equipment these things don't buy and sell. As chairman of the Committee, I was also an excellent executive for a report on political prisoners in Azerbaijan. Now the committee has examined the introduction to my report, or an overview of how this report will look, and has agreed that I can be authorized to go to Azerbaijan to meet prisoners there who are considered political prisoners to take out the position. There have been strong accusations against the government in Azerbaijan that people who have some form of opposition to a government that some doubt is a democratic government over their heads. In addition, the European Parliament's Department of Iceland proposed, as a matter of fact, that there would be a special discussion at the council held in January on this report. Senators Birgir Þórarinsson and Rosak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlffjölóttir, a report of the International Parliamentary Association on the harassment of women in politics. Instead, we'll be going to write a report, and I'm her co-star, about sexual harassment in the Congress, about the state councils, about the way it is called, and I suggest that we update our rules of ethics to deal with these problems and how to deal with the violence that women are experiencing in their political affairs. I look forward to carrying out that assignment. This report will hopefully be scheduled in April at the Council of the Council of Europe. [[The president calls.]] I hope I have better news to leave home then than I do now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech, and he also wants to use the opportunity to thank the head of the Iceland Department, please. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, for a very good and clear report and very educational about the activities of the European Council. I'd also like to wish why. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ávardósdótir congratulates on the prehumanity of the Legal and Human Rights Committee. I've had the opportunity as an assistant of Iceland in the Council of Europe to monitor only her work there and make them a lot of credit. She is well pleased and delighted to observe her activities at the Council of Europe, as well as the president of the Iceland Department. I would like to have a little more discussion about the cuts that lie ahead of us in the Council of Europe because the Russians have not kept their contributions to the Council. Now I have heard that as many as 200 people as possible can get laid off jobs that must have serious consequences for their important and important activities there. Unfortunately, the Russians have not been able to reach acceptable conclusions about their financial contributions. It would be good if it were. A senator could do a little more details about this, what he does in his life, and how this can affect the important work being done in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u68	Mr. President. I thank you for the interesting question and for the beautiful words to me. I appreciate them. The impact that the cut-off could have may be particularly dangerous to the Council of Europe itself, I think it's likely that the cut-off knife will be quite large. The reason why I find it very dangerous is that it is at the council that the Commission faces what the strongest opposition, surveillance, and maintenance are. There are senators who have immunity in their professions and independence that are needed to go to their friends, to take the situation out when it comes to democracy, human rights, or justice, saying: "Hey, my friend, this is just not good enough, and can say it without compromise, doesn't have to stand in an established border or anything like that. The canals of this massively heavily controlled facility are weakened. I'm concerned that this is something that many governments of these governments do not resent too much. I'm worried that that's why we don't hear stronger voices from the leaders of these states that they'll only save the missing 33 million euro. In the big context, they're small money for nations like Germany and France, you could find this money in their mousse massage, so there's something more behind it. It is not that they feel that the money is too high to help them survive. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid there's some political attitude behind the fact that we're not going to make sure that there's no cutting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A very interesting answer to a senator. One might ask: Could there be some political reasons why Member States cannot see how to expand their contributions to meet this cut-off due to the failure of one Member State, Russia, to pay their legal donations, and has not been paid? We'll see, for example. Like a snooze. A senator mentioned an important issue that is the surveillance of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. It's a classic case that can be connected with this discussion and that as a matter of course. A senator came in, that there may be states out there that don't really want much of this to say, that there's some surveillance committees, and there's monitoring things like this. That's a very interesting answer from what happened. A senator and I encourage her to share this with a newspaper article or something like that because this is very interesting. Of course, we hope that some conclusion will be reached by Russia. I think it's very unfortunate if Russia leaves the council because Russia is the primary cause of this injury to the public in Russia. We know that there is violations of human rights and that unless people have political views that are acceptable to governments there, this can lead to problems for the public. Of course, this need to be closely monitored, and one of the European Council's cornerstones is to monitor human rights in member countries. I sure hope we can land as far as Russia is concerned. [[The president calls.]] But I appreciate it. A senator for a good answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u70	Mr. President. I would like to thank you for this fine encouragement, and I would like to write a newspaper article or do a video or other video to call attention to the serious situation that this key guard of human rights is currently in due to the cutbacks to take. I would also like to add this and point out that if we are to protect the European Court of Human Rights, which is by no means granted the results of this cuts, and to keep the Court of Human Rights in check elsewhere. And as I pointed out in my speech earlier, it is difficult to determine what that should be. Is this the European Commission on defense of torture and other disrespectful or inhuman treatment? This committee has often produced criticism against Icelandic governments without our failure, such as. With regard to our legal laws, which are now soon to be in our discussion. Should we cut down there? I don't want to see it. I find it very important that if Iceland takes it seriously as a democracy, a state of human rights, rights and democracy, we are behind the European Council and take the initiative to ensure that there is no need to cut into the main institutions that work there and play an important role for human rights protection, both in Iceland and in the whole world. I agree with what. A senator, it would not be desirable for Russia to withdraw from this work because not only those in Russia lose their access to the European Court of Human Rights but also stop talking to Russia on these important matters, how we can reach peaceful solutions. [[The president calls.]] There's something I'm really worried about, that the conversation stopped, because it's usually headed for a riot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u71	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of various laws due to new laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, but these laws were adopted at the General Assembly last summer. These laws are daily referred to as the Protection Act and will be used as short as possible in my case below. The bill is aimed at making necessary adjustments to the legal requirements of several laws that fall under the topic of the new Department of Social Affairs to ensure that the process of personal information will be carried out on the basis of the relevant legal requirement of the new personal protection laws. I would like to first emphasize the importance of distinguishing between the effects the new protection laws may have, such as the activities of public institutions, and the effects that the subject of the bill may have on the work of the relevant institutions. It should also be noted that the bill is not intended to produce changes in the services to which relevant institutions are assigned. A respectable president. Under the Department of Affairs, there are laws that involve important rights and duties of citizens. On the basis of that law, often personal information is needed for individuals who may be sensitive, such as information about their health. At that, including we should consider whether social support requirements are met. In my opinion, it is important that such information be done with the problem, as well as that work is in harmony with the new identity protection laws, which is why the bill is now submitted. This is a modification of nine law columns, i.e. social security law, unemployment insurance law, labour market action law, birth and parent's law, the government's agent's law, the law on how to repay individuals, financial support laws on bankruptcy costs, community service laws and laws on the state's diagnostic and counseling standards. I don't think it's a reason to tear down the contents of the bill specifically, but it's in common with all of them that following the implementation of the new protection laws, they all feel necessary. The regulations also bear in common to expect that the institutions working on the basis of the relevant legal law will take only the information necessary to perform their respective legal roles. At the same time, the bill highlights that prior to the introduction of information individuals have received information on the proposed collections as well as more information that are considered appropriate at any time to ensure fair and transparent adherence to the individual. The bill thus assumes that there will be a clearer understanding of the current refinement in the relevant legislation for the processing of information necessary so that those institutions working on the law can carry out their legal duties. At the same time, it will be ensured that any individuals involved will be informed about the processing of the information. It should be noted that although the changes taken are necessary following the implementation of the new personal protection laws, it is not expected that laws should be specifically referred to in the changes made by the bill to the relevant laws. This is because the laws of the new protection laws generally apply to all the processing of personal information, so all the personal information is expected to be done on the basis of the laws that the bill assumes that change will remain in accordance with the principles of the personal protection laws that have been carried out in spite of the subject's topic. A respectable president. This bill was in the foundation of the work of the new personal protection laws. The person here does not have an expert on that law, but it emphasizes that in this introduction, only the changes needed to be made are seen and that there are no other changes in the bill than those based on this personal protection law. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u72	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I know he's not an expert in this field, but I'd like to ask him anyway. I noticed that in 6. The bill on changing the law of the agent of debt says that it discusses the authority of an agent to obtain information when individuals ask for his help. According to this article, an agent is authorized to collect information that he feels is necessary to carry out his legitimate role, including his or her role. authorized to obtain information on individual behaviours. The report makes it clear that he can request data and information on health, social conditions, and information relating to conviction in judicial cases and criminal offenses. I admit that I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding why a credit agent needs so much information to give him. I don't see the need for a credit agent to get medical information about his clients or their criminal offenses provided the individuals are in debt to state funds. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he has any insight into this, why is it going so far, and whether it is needed, just to have what is best for us to work on a welfare committee when the matter comes to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u73	A respectable president. I thank the head of the welfare committee, why. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for her tips and questions. Hv. A senator concluded that I was not an expert on personal protection law, and I am happy to accept it here. I'm still aware that 6. has been closely cooperated with the agent of creditors, that these are information that he believes he needs to be able to earn in order to carry out his legal duties, in other laws let us say, in dealing with and in matters related to those in debt. I don't have much more to say to the senator about this. I encourage the committee, because the case goes to the why. A welfare committee, to summon an agent of debt and to improve the handling of these matters as a whole. Then the committee will be able to get a clearer view of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u74	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. This is shown in the bill's report that there was specifically a request for the review of Percontet, but there is no review. The Agency has given the review, it says in the report, and it says that these comments were taken in particular. There is, however, no record of it, nor was it part of the Board of Directors. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, why the review was not published and whether he felt it was wrong to publish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-31-60.u75	A respectable president. I thank the senator for these suggestions that I can answer because they are not directly related to the protection laws but to the process. I'm aware that this review has been received from Peritoneal Protection and received by the Ministry. It came directly to the Ministry, but Perone Protection didn't put it directly into the problem of consultation. At this point, I know some technical difficulties, since the Ministry can't put it directly into the consultation mystery. It is the least of these matters to send or call for the welfare committee directly from Pernon protection. I can also give it to the senator in advance immediately after this discussion.
