ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u1	The President wants to use this opportunity at the beginning of a meeting and wish members of the Allied Parliament a happy summer, and thank you for your cooperation in recent winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u2	The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting, but the synopsis dictates, or there will be a discussion on the program at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u3	Consider: Prime Minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers and Ministers of Justice, marine dignitaries and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u4	President. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if the minister agrees with the Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance in his assessment of the induction of the third energy package from the end of March last year. V.E.G. The minister here said in a speech, memorable: ▪ What I have so hard to understand is interest. A senator and some of the members of the council are expected to submit to the invitation of the Common European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? That's where they call in and at the highest. The secretary of finance is quick to answer: ▪ Yes, because we are already under it? That's argument, topv. President? Is it true that since the European Union has already been able to establish Iceland into some European institution, there is reason to go further? V.E.G. A minister will continue his fine talk, even describing it. that it is fundamental and crystal clear that EU electronics are not internal markets. So I ask, remembering this fine speech, the grandest. Secretary of finance, the highest. The prime minister must also remember: Minister to the highest estimate. Secretary of finance? And if so, the Minister can help the highest level. To follow the view and course he described here so well in his speech just over a year ago? I know it's the highest. As a result, the prime minister of the Independence Party can hire and expel the minister of the Independence Party and may now be able to assist the Independence Party in implementing its policy. Or is going to the highest. Would the prime minister accept assistance from the restoration and the United States in opposing the independent party's policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for recalling a speech of the highest order. Financial and economic ministers. Now I'm clearly not that much of a fan. Economic and financial ministers where I don't remember the speech, unlike what happened. A senator, but she must have been memorable. I, however, want less of a what-what-who-who-who-who-who-who-who-who-who-who-who. A member of the Parliament, where he testified to the talk that with the third energy package, Iceland would be invited by the Community Institute to produce the third energy package, which has been proposed by the highest power. The minister of foreign affairs simply means that we are implementing two solid solutions, as we have done in other matters. As long as we are in EFTA, we have emphasized two supporting solutions, whether in financial or energy surveillance, and that is certainly true in this matter as well as in the case of others. Then I'd like to recall, because we hadn't. A senator discussed these matters the other day and discussed them. The report of Professor Stefán's Már Stefánsson, Professor emerius, has shown that he has been moved to reiterate his position, that the way in which he is proposed in the council's resolution now for treatment is a warning that we are not moved to commit a bereft, which is the main issue, unless the Council ever makes a decision in the future to lay a bell and first take the principles that we have to do with this collective order. I wondered, in view of the words why. A senator, and he may be able to explain it in a later inquiry if he chooses to do so, whether he believes that two supporting solutions in general are not acceptable for Iceland within the European partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u6	V.E.G. President. It's the highest. The prime minister sitting here for answers, and I'm going to try to get an answer from the highest level. Minister on her position on this matter. That's all there is to hear at the highest. Ministers but that she simply believes that with the highest recommendations. Secretary of State is solved, for the next year's at least But then I remind Stefán, the son of Stefánsson, who was the chief. The minister mentioned earlier, the same thing about the warning we thought we had about agriculture, about importing food, simply declared that the European Union's decision on this matter was wrong. I agree with him about that. But we must fear that the European Union will in this case also give the wrong conclusion if we open the way of their authority. I remind you to include. has already been expected to deliver the Power Institute from elected representatives in Iceland and under this panEuropean institution regardless of sea cable. [[Foreground on: No.]] This is made clear. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I need to talk a little longer, because it's a delicate matter that seems to be left green, especially. Therefore, I reiterate my first admonition to the highest degree. Minister: Is he willing to reconsider this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again, and I am now seeking to answer that question as easily as possible. A senator asks about. The things that are controversial, and the warnings as well as the clouds. A senator makes publicity about the link between Europe's electron energy systems. Not only have the council's own decree been made, as I did earlier, but I witnessed there to Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. In the light of history, a senator does not consider myself to be a cause for concern if I am to value a word. A senator like that, however, has also provided a bill that includes the idea that a sea cable will not be placed in Iceland unless it is agreed by the Generals' approval. And there is a much different policy than that. A senator himself stood by when he went to Britain and signed a special declaration of the sea cable with Britain's prime minister at that time. [[That's wrong.]] I'm on my way to Britain, and I'm not signing a petition about a cable with the current prime minister of Britain. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] No, no. We're getting a little rough here, and I want to say it good at what. Senators that I stress the urgency of the situation. A foreign - language committee takes the time to review this matter and any question that may arise. Congress officials can take their stand in an enlightened way later in the spring. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, that as the executive for the government, the time frame of prime minister has given to respond to the European Court of Human Rights on a national order. Now there are two months since the conclusion was completely clear. We can discuss whether or not to appeal. The decision has been made. There was a reason not to have a judge 11 but 15 simply because the number of paintings is so great, but even more so, that the National Court is one of the most important rights we have done in recent years and decades. Land rights need to be carefully worn, especially at an early stage when we have, in particular, a measure of justice in mind. There is a clear picture of how we will proceed with the recent order of the land's rights, much less in the long run. Of course, we know that plan A lay ahead. The government was always going to win the case. Plan B was not present. Ministers and members of the government have already confirmed. This conclusion was not expected. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister to whether this case is not in priority with the government, to complete it, and to address how to implement a ruling order in the United States. It is of utmost importance, especially with regard to the interests involved. People, both in the southwestern corner and in the country, depend very much on the fact that the legal system sucks, that the numbers of paintings go through the system, and that they get their release. They need the answers from the highest. Government being clear. National rights, this frame, this important legal instrument or the national security service for an Icelandic justice system must be carefully applied. Hence, it is urgent that the government and the prime minister give the council a clear message and answers about how the national rights are up to a rotten one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir of this inquiry. Now it's so great. Minister of Justice is also here to answer - and to handle the case, so I can handle it. At the request of the highest order. Two meetings have been held by the presidents of the political parties for information on this matter. The decision has been made to request that the European Court of Human Rights take this issue into consideration. Now there is no time for that decision, whether the upper department will consider the matter or not. Its reasons are complex. But I'll remember it up here that it's even That is exactly because we all agree that justice needs to be guaranteed. This judgment has to do with a fundamental level of judgment and its order in the land. But that is exactly why this judgment has been interpreted - and like that - as well. A senator is aware that experts have failed to agree on how this judgment should be interpreted, especially to the point that most people believe that it primarily defended the four judges who were not among the 15 top members of the committee list. However, experts have claimed that there is no doubt that the entire issue was defended by 15 judges. That's even. Because of the rational support shown in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on the arrival of the Generals in the matter and its payment on the case. So I think it's very important for us to decide, first of all, whether or not the department will consider the matter. If she considers whether she chooses to add support to the lower court's Department of Human Rights, which are precedents and may be able to explain the interpretation of that court, I think quite early light. The Minister of Justice will respond to the order of the court in order for him to function normally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u10	Mr. President. Yes, we were informed of the government's decision to appeal, and as far as I'm concerned, the evidence has not been submitted yet. The case is repeatedly delayed, and it is completely unacceptable. It is not acceptable for a prime minister to come up here in a talk chair and say: "Maybe this is the way it is, and maybe it's gay. We're ready for plan A and Plan B and Plan C. Don't let us get caught up in this huge, big deal again, in keeping our arms around the National Court all over. We have a plan in case the court takes the case. If they're all 15 off, we're ready for a plan. So is the way we're going to keep it now, considering they're 11 active. I think this case is typical of the government. The independent party is waiting for the members of its gang of conflicts to determine who is to be the minister of justice in the near future. I don't like the fact that the government is more concerned with who has custody of the child than with taking care of the child's interests. The child here is the National Court. [[The president calls.]] We must protect the interests of the land because it strengthens the security and rights of the public. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u11	Mr. President. I can't agree with what. A senator says that things are not under the highest authority. Minister of Justice sitting right here, ready to answer if necessary. There's a senator who wants to take a closer look. The missing data will be sent out this week, just so long. A senator can sleep slowly over it. You see, it's not as simple as a dog. A senator wants to be left alone. Should have gone to the top. A minister of justice who would have wanted to be prepared for any judgment even should have decided to appoint 15 new judges? It's not. Hv. A senator knows that the interpretation of this court has been a controversy among our most skilled experts. So it is important to be prepared to respond depending on whether the upper department is coming... [[Up front.]] It sounds like a reason. A senator is very upset about this matter, and he does not even want to hear the answers. It is very important that we be ready for the answers. [[This is big.]] But, on the other hand, what does it mean? A senator trying to figure out how to choose the top department to handle the case, then it's gonna take time. It will take up to two years, and the uncertainty will not be permanently eliminated. A senator sooner than after that time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u12	A respectable president. During nearly a third of the collapses and the last two thirds of the three decades, disability has fallen back from the interest of other members of the community. The tax system causes chain damage and is used to place more and more weight on the shoulders of disability and older citizens. This has to change. The improvement of the trade union and VR has been signed under contracts with the employment community, a so-called biography agreement. But what is the standard of living? What will be the next step in the desperate and older citizens' affairs? Clearly, the present arrangement has kept the poor not only from poverty but from the poor. It's unacceptable that pensioners always sit around, stay in the bottom of the pecking order, and keep waiting for clouts. V.E.G. At the General Assembly, the prime minister once made a memorable statement that governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. During the past three decades, amazingly ridiculous shearing has been used to prevent desperate and older citizens from getting righteous raises. With amazing tricks and the use of a consumer science number - to be used on products rather than on people - microorganists have been seen to always remain behind. That is clearly stated in Article 69. Social security legislation that the decision to increase the sum should be based on pay development. A new remuneration agreement has now been established. These peaks of crowns are listed in the United States. That's why I want an answer from the highest. Minister - Clear Answer: Will the level of raise from April 1 to the current labour market be the same as the one that was negotiated?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for speaking here of the ideal disability. First, the decision to make a indicator increase in the disability pay in each year's budget is made, sometimes in contrast with the consumerity index. Sometimes it has been compared to a consumer calculus plus some other criteria, so it is not quite a matter of how that decision has been made. Then there it is, like the oar. A senator knows, and we've talked a few times here in this chair, that the government has a special bill of money for microenergy pensioners. I have to admit about that group as a dog. A senator sits in, along with other blows. Councilmen and representatives of the Quantum, the labor movement, the exercise aid, the professional life and ministry that I have spent long periods of time on the results and suggestions from them. I am now told that a meeting was announced there on May 7, hopefully to provide the suggestions that have been discussed there, since even if the members of that group don't agree on final suggestions, I think it is very important that we get them to be discussed in this field. This year's earmarks have been made in 2.9 billion choice for micropigs. To reduce the value of a penny, to reduce the value of a dollar, to look at the forward, or to increase the percentage of flexible jobs for micropigs. I certainly hope that we will be able to see what this group has been working on and that decisions that will serve to improve the future will be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, your answers are down. A dollar versus a dollar's decrease is just a whole different kind of thing than commercial increases in a general labour market. Clearly, disability is not to be raised from April 1. Then I ask: Should they be restored from January 1? Or should they be treated again once again with the same tricks, making sure that they do not get their own raise like everyone else? Do you once again use a penny in front of the pact to avoid giving them the growths that the public is receiving today and that were negotiated in your last standing contracts? That's two different things. The question is, will the poor get the more extensive increases, the centenarians, as agreed on in the public market, from April 1 or do they not get it? Do they receive these from January 1? If it comes from January 1 next year, will they be restored to the same level as all others who have been raised?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u15	Mr. President. I think I answered a question why. When I reviewed earlier that these increases are determined in each year's budget. Of course, the next year's budget is not yet established, so they really wait to see what criteria will be used for these increases, as they have been. Hv. A senator criticizes that arrangement. But at the same time -- and that's just what I pointed out in my previous answer -- have earmarked funds in the budget of this year that are not being used in dressbacks, which could be used and is important to start making use of. That's why I want to reiterate what I have repeatedly here, that I think it is very important that the group who has been working here will give the proposals under which they are, although they are not fully satisfied, so that the senators may have at least here. material to discuss and to begin taking sides on the different paths there must be on the table for the informed group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u16	Mr. President. As people know, in the past, landowners have closed down or devoid of popular tourist attractions and have adopted the means of selling people access to these places. This has not been done in many places, and the landowners have, as it were, given reasonable reasons to do this, they say they have to use the money to protect territory, take steps, etc. However, a man fears that if this begins to spread throughout the country, it will mean all other forms of our experience in this country, as well as that it is thought to be in opposition to both the free movement of people throughout the country and even the ancient law columns, all back to John's Book, or even the Grey Ages. That's why I want to know and hear from the highest level. Ministers in this regard, whether or not it should be set up on how this will be handled in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, which is both interesting and important. It is true that individuals have taken steps to cash in their territory. Over the past few years, the discussion has been made publicly and in the media on which they live, what they can do, and what they cannot do in this regard. There's work going on, e.g. with representatives of other councils, including Mine, about the grossly in terms of what the P.P.A. really means. What I have felt is missing from that debate - and the public rights, such as why. A senator mentions, age - old and important, he owns his place in all of our hearts, and the people of other countries also have comparable rights - is exactly what he means, legally, and how he develops in due time. He was present in times past, including for people to get around to. Now that we have other means of doing so, we have a transportation system and other means of getting around, and in that sense, this public right has to develop somehow. It can, for example, be used. does not constitute a public court that many buses come to one place - for those sitting - to enjoy the natural or the place they come to. Why do I say that? It's mainly because we have to have some tools and tools to protect the new nature. Likewise, when it comes to right landowners, farmers in many lands, who want their country's resources in a certain way, we need to approach the earth with caution. [[The president calls.]] In this respect, we will have to discuss this matter here. It is probable that some prime news will come about, and this will also take place during long-term policy development because this will take place through society's churches.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u18	Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. As I say, there is a law code in ancient law books that enables people to travel in a lonely territory. Of course, we are not talking about farms or homework or anything like that. I think that since there is a question about how this should be interpreted and how to take care of this in the future, it must be very important that the General and the Government take the lead in destroying that uncertainty. There is no need to state that it is our own policy that all Icelanders own this country equally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u19	Mr. President. I agree with what. As far as we're concerned, we're going to have to get further along with how the public rights should develop to the rhythm of the changing times when we have infrastructures that allow people to get in places, but also with the fact that here comes a lot of visitors, and we have to somehow control it when they decide to go to places, react to it. On the other hand, we have official countries, countries owned by government or rural society, a peaceful territory, and countries owned by individuals. However, this is mainly considered for areas owned by individuals where landowners are responsible for their country. When tourists get interested in coming and seeing, it is very important for my own people to respond. It is not necessarily wise for all of us that the only way to do so is to close when we are in a difficult situation. Then I feel that the owners have legal authority that I believe they have to pay for their arrival on their land, especially if there is a particular service for tourists. [[The president calls.]] Likely, we do not want all farmers to close their lands because of the number of tourists who want to come there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u20	A respectable president. I have a dogly question. Climate change is the biggest threat facing mankind today. There are others, e.g. The threat of a nuclear war that still exists as long as I can remember. In fact, if you look closely, you can find some of the threats that humans may be able to cope with. But no threat is as overwhelming or as large and as certain as climate change. In fact, climate change is already in port, and there is the possibility that it will destroy human society, as we know it, if the slightest action is not taken. In fact, the next few decades will require unpredictable changes in human society, just to reduce the greatest disaster. If you can't reach it, it's hard to tell what the consequences will be. I'm sure environmentalists who still listen to just nods. That's when I get to the routes. One of the big problems in the future is that we must simply switch to energy resources that do not require emissions of greenhouse gases, Iceland and other countries. In other words, big increases in electricity production will be needed, and I remind you, we are talking about unprecedented changes in human society. Environmentalists have often objected to falling water activation through the years in Iceland to protect unregulated nature. I myself feel that I am a environmentalist, and I have rather aversion to activation plans than with them, although I have seen both activation plans that I don't understand why anyone is opposed and plans that I don't understand why anyone is in favor with. But in terms of climate change, I feel that we have to face at least a few challenges. Two things: First, if we look to 100 or 200 years of age, we need to ask what is meant by unmannerly nature. The glaciers are melting, and the weather is changing with a related effect on the environment. What will be unmoved nature after 100 years? I don't have the answer to that question. Second, the only way to make these unprecedented changes in human society is through energy exchange at such rate and scale that has not so far realistic and may not be possible. Therefore, I would like to ask this unfortunate question: Can we environmentalists handle this unprecedented task without sacrificing to others? It's the highest. The Environment Minister for Environment saw that it would be more complex to choose and refuse when it comes to the use of renewable energy resources in Iceland in the battle against climate change?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u21	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this diabolical inquiry that is directed to me here. She may not be so boring if it's better to look. I agree with that word. A senator tells us that we are faced with a very big challenge. Climate change is the biggest challenge of the 21st century, in my opinion. The question is, Can we deal with this important, large project without affecting our resources? I think the short answer to that is that, of course, all the changes we need to make have some effect on resource efficiency. That effect is not necessarily negative. Perhaps some of them are negative, others positive. In view of it as a matter of course. A senator specifically asked about or specifically discussed in his query, the energy exchange, in the current frame of a framework of energy to provide for this energy exchange that will take longer than one or two years. That has even been true. it should be noted that, for example, the increase in the number of electrical vehicles currently being made is not expected to require special activation. We need to consider, though, that the energy we are willing to engage in active activations is directly involved in projects like those involved in future climate - related projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and good if he could not create an opened heart, but he is very grateful every time that it happens. I'm afraid they'll cut very fast upon this matter's examination. I don't want to steal a question that's on the program later today, but I'm going to risk myself just on that subject in the light of the ultimate answer. Minister, I look forward to the discussion later. It is a matter of further use of energy resources, perhaps especially by falling water activation, where they are extensive activation projects that have been involved so far, whether they exist, and where the highest attitude exists. A minister will see if he considers, for example. to set specific criteria for achieving certain goals in the fight against climate change or at least zero. In other words, it is always taken into account when we go into some priming plan whether they serve the goal of combating climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u23	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is point him out. A senator has a question from what? paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, Kolbeinn Proppér, who is the financial and economic minister, on the lack of carbon sharement in the use of common resources and property of the state. Of course, I haven't answered yet. [[Up front.]] It'll be later. It's just that it's very exciting to see what's in it. To answer the question about whether there are conditions to be set for further use when it comes to these matters, I would probably like to consider them. You may feel particularly that in today's energy policy, some of such ideas can be proposed, that whatever energy is taking in is not exactly the same. These include, for example, whether it is contaminated activity, as has been achieved in Iceland on a large scale, or some other activity or exchange of energy, as mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u24	A respectable president. It's like we're at the highest. Ministers agree that it is important to travel, as in other areas, that there is confidence in companies in this article. It's been over two months since the news show Upright informed Lecce's employees that their rental staff had dropped a mile away in the company's 100 cars, at least. This, of course, is serious. Of course, when an opinion of the matter is still under way, many people are waiting for a response to it. But the media quoted the highest. A minister in this regard that she considered it very taxing to deprive a company of employment permit. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain her meaning in those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's request and thanks for the opportunity to discuss this matter in brief. The headline of the story was changed, and the context of the part was that it was a fact that in general, any type of company in any area is about to lose its license. It's just a fact, no matter what's gone before. So it wasn't my message that it was particularly burdensome for this company because of the violations it had committed that it had disbarred. Of course, such behavior can have consequences for companies, both universal and personal rights for consumers to seek their rights. This issue, as reported in the media and the police themselves have confirmed, is at the table of the police, indicating that the case is serious. But it's also on the table of the Grouping Room, an institution that doesn't come under me, which is based on a law on renting registered vehicles, which is a law code under my department. That's where it's still in the process, I think I'd better know. What I was trying to promote, and I believe, is that when we discuss government surveillance in this country, we need to make sure that there is not always the answer to everything that goes wrong because there is a very expensive surveillance in Iceland. It's the most expensive country in all countries within the OECD. We started with the OECD project to identify the regular work here because it takes companies, consumers and taxpayers to monitor if this is unavoidable, too costly or excessive. Therefore, we need to consider whether the criminal responsibility of the law is simply clear enough in the regulations we have today. The answer, therefore, cannot always be that there is a need to increase the surveillance of everyone when a person commits a crime. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u26	A respectable president. Indeed, it is important to watch both sides, not to overdo public surveillance, and to see that appropriate treatments are there to promote the fair competition and the confidence we need to have at the market. V.E.G. A minister here notes that it is not to be overwatched every time any situation arises. It seems that we have sometimes lost our mind on it, because we recommend an enormously complex rule on the OECD scale. That's why I welcome the highest project. A minister will go to OECD for a simple rule book because it is quite clear that there is a lot for Icelandic employment in competitiveness, being able to compete with others, that orderwork and monitoring are not too complex and burdensome as we live today. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What's the policy on that? What should be accomplished by this work? Is there any chance that we will be living with a simple rule, a less complicated level and more opportunity for an Icelandic company, both competitively and, of course, also a innovation, which is a seminary arranged by the Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u27	Mr. President. I'd like to add that when you have a situation like this, there's a tendency that the answer is to increase everyone's surveillance. In this case, there are 120 rental cars. Of course, this calls them to consider whether the criminal responsibility of the law is clear enough and rich enough. Of course, this must be so that the penalties be cutting off those who are consciously violating the laws and practices of good business. But we need to be sure that the sources we want to use are in the laws of law at one time. What effect does surveillance have on our community? That's what we're about to do, along with OECD. This work has resulted in the growth of economic growth in countries that have accompanied them on such projects. For example, in Australia, if I recall correctly, 1,800 laws and regulations were removed over five years, and economic growth has been above OECD ever since. So what we need to do is identify where it is too burdensome and too extensive and whether we always go the right way. [[The president calls.]] Do we always need permission, or do we have enough records at times? etc. This whole life is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u28	Mr. President. Now there are only about five weeks left of this council. Therefore, I would like to raise the issue once more that I still have an answer to two i've asked. One of them, on the sale of the highest holdings of the apartment loans, has received rather a full record through the council but is now at the highest level. Minister of Justice. The other is a financial minister and has been there for several months, with regard to tax returns. The book that was read here, where ministers asked for time to answer, does not find a deadline to answer these two queries. Now I would like to ask the president once more to make sure that an answer is received to these two queries so that they will not burn in again because of the end of the council. I'm waiting for the highest. The President on the team in this case so that both of them will be answered before the Senate closes in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u29	President will hear what he's saying. A senator said and will check the answers to these two queries and put pressure on them to pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u30	A respectable president. I'm asking if the highest. The health minister intends to change the patient's transport costs and pay for access to people outside the capital area to serve with only the State's insurance agency involved in the cost of a patient's two visits over a period of 12 months. Then I also ask if an exception was granted from that rule. We know that in the country, there is not necessarily a general practice of basic health care, whether by ophthalmologists, oncologists, or others. It varies according to place, but it's not a general rule. More often than not, patients have had to go down here regularly to the Great Sonar Land, the capital area, to attend this service. For a sick person who is approaching from the country, such costs may be significant and have considerable impact. I believe that it is extremely difficult to put everyone in the same compartments. It is not that one size is suitable for all patients when it is time to provide them and what treatment they need. In one year, a patient may need to consult the capital area because of some mental - health or specialised service, and then he needs a whole different service later in the year. There are a number of reasons why patients have to look here. That's why I think it's important that the system has just remembered that one size doesn't necessarily work for all of us, as well as that we have to keep the patient's interests in mind, not how we build up the system as such. Of course, it all needs to be arranged, but we must have certain ideas that this is how the system is built up. We're building up the basic Special Services, the National Hospital, including, in the capital area, and then we have to keep in mind the needs of the individual, but we don't build up the system so that it matters which mail number is on its own. This should not be determined, but the needs of the patients. In addition to this request, I would like to receive the highest perspective and answers. Minister to see if a minister will handle this in the medical programme that will be expected to be introduced in the fall. Does not the experience give us reason to review these factors accurately? There's nothing to play with coming here to the capital. We know that, just on the news to make up of a woman who's being treated for cancer, needs help, including the family. She has to make a few trips herself, not just one or two, but more trips. Of course, such factors and circumstances need to be viewed by the system. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in addition to whether we will see this within the medical programme that will be discussed later this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's request for travel costs of health care and access to specialised services by people outside the capital area. Access to health care is a misplacement in Iceland. That is the situation, although we can still claim that bioavailability is quite good in general. The service of specialists is the most available here in the capital area, but this reduces measurable bioavailability as they go further into the scattered regions. At the current medical conference, which will be discussed on the night. A health committee considers the challenges involved in ensuring equal access to health care, regardless of the community. An important way to cope with these challenges is by telecommunications. However, I would like to mention in this answer to why. A member of the Parliament that we have several ways to add services to the scattered markets in terms of access to specialized health care. First, we have been working on strengthening health care. It's been built up all over the country, including the U.S. by increasing the multidisciplinary design of the health care provider and thus the possibility of obtaining a solution, i.e. for more diseases than before. Second, projects that have been started in some parts of the world that either the Akureyri Hospital or the Lands Hospital support local health institutions in offering special special services. But most important, it is possible to establish agreements with specialist physicians and those who work in a private market through agreements with health insurance that there is a certain separation in the fact that a person is giving the service more than just in the capital area. This is part of the contract policy that has come from the Ministry of Health in existing agreements with expert physicians. So there are some ways to strengthen this. One smells of paying for access to people outside the capital area is also better at paying health insurance support for travel costs. We're working on some changes in government travel costs now in cooperation with Iceland's Medical Insurance. We are also trying to clarify better - and it is evident in health policy - this first, second, and third degree service, i.e. that we make sure that the right service is done in the right place, that people are not attending for a third degree of service, as it were. It's going well, trying to set this up. I agree with what. A senator that it's the best interests of the patients who must be on the basis of it, not the interests of the individual health institutions or the districts or what it is. Hv. A senator also asks if it is not possible to give an exception from the fact that health insurance is involved in travel costs. It's not. There is no authority to provide such an exception, i.e. There are two trips over a period of 12 months, and exceptions have not been provided. But it is proper to state this with repeated visits from health care professionals, e.g. due to renal failure or other such serious medical conditions, the health insurance may be involved in the current travel cost, in accordance with specific regulations. So travel costs can be met. I'd like to mention in this answer, too, a medical hotel. When it is fully used, it helps to some extent. In addition, I have made my focus this year and the next time we have to do much better in reaching out for the extent and distribution of medical transportation in the country, i.e. what is sometimes called out - of - hospital service. Then I am talking not only about land service or medical transportation with traditional formats but also about air. Because intensive telecommunications and intensive medical transportation are also a lifeline for the people of the country in order to enjoy a wide variety of health care. The current health policy objective for the treatment of the council must be comparable to health care, regardless of the economy and the home environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u32	A respectable president. I just want to agree with the importance of talking about the travel costs of health care and the availability of people outside the capital area for expert services. And that's where we came back to think about it. to me a request that I asked for and received an answer during 2016 found that registration of health insurance for reimbursed travel costs within the country was very lacking. It was difficult to read from them, e.g. how many flights would be paying for, how expensive they were with the individuals, how much money would be paid for flying, what would be paid for your own driving, or other public transportation. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to see if this has been improved. Of course, I want to agree that this is a matter of life and death. I know an example of families paying more for travel expenses than for modern dental rights of children just dental rights. But I also feel very positive about the many things that are being done, such as contracts with specialists that include these.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for standing up for this inquiry, and he wants to catch the food - bearing ball because they have special problems in many places, since birth sites are reduced. Now it is only three places in the country that we may be able to carry out military operations in a sure way. This also applies to maternal protection, maternal monitoring, and opinions. Women who live away from the capital, far from the larger urban income - these families often face heavy expenses. So I ask the highest. Ministers to see if there are any plans to meet these families. It is not only the woman, but it is also the spouse and the children who want to share in the amazing event when a new person comes into the world. I'm afraid we have to do everything we can to raise children in Iceland, don't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is, in effect, incomprehensible for those living in the capital area to receive this service with no cost. But those who are the east or the west, far from the hospital, are in need of bankruptcy, e.g. in cancer treatment. This is at the cost of hundreds of thousands. This is incomprehensible because we have goods, gasoline, and all kinds of products, no matter what happens around the country, but if people get sick, they become financially and farther away from the capital, the cost is greater. Hospitals have been squeezed out in the country, both health care and so forth. Hence, making sure that all the people of the country have the same health - care cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Of course, it is important to build health care and to support health - care facilities worldwide. You face the challenges and challenges you face in each region. I'm glad to hear it. A minister agrees that we should look at the needs of the patients. It is extremely important that we also invest in resources to meet the needs of patients. It may be necessary to fly out of a particular disease more than twice a year or to travel or simply have to look to include Internally active health care providers. We should not put all of this under official authority but primarily consider how we respond to the needs of the patients. Each individual member and private member can perform public service, as well as, of course, government government through national or health care. I'm waiting and I'm at the highest. A minister to rule out the wide range of resources, whether from independent agents or the state, but primarily on the needs of patients. Regarding renal failure, perhaps the motivation for this inquiry, I have several examples of individuals who have lived in the region and have had to consult the capital because of kidney failure more than twice a year. Then they had to go back to another service during the year, but they received rejection from a insurance agency because they had already finished the ban. That's not how the system is supposed to go down. We are to give the people the feeling that they are safe with health care, that we use only modern technology, either through distant health care services or simply by flying to places where they can get the ministry. Let's put our arms around the people wherever they are sitting on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u36	A respectable president. I still want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up. I think it's very important that's happened both ways. The head of the group and those who have participated in the discussion are very large. It's not simple. Not only do we need to improve our service abroad but we also need to improve our availability through prolonged health care and improved medical transportation. So this is a combination solution. I hope so. One senator noticed that I specifically recognized that it was part of a contract objective for independent experts that they could and had the duty to perform their services, including ashore, not just in the capital area. Thus, it is not just about the public system but about our whole health system, no matter how it is combined. There is no secret that I have declared that there is a need for public health care and, especially, the growing of health care throughout the country. While we are in the process of forming psychologists in the clinic, where we have actually met the criteria for coming in for the next year to put mental health control across the country, we are actually in a complete new chapter in access to a first and second service in whatever our home. It's a fundamental change of our system. Of course, if people have to lie in the house or have to enjoy the services of the Hospital in Akureyri or the Hospital because of such illnesses or other illnesses, they often have to go a long way. The hospital helps in part in serving women with food, because this is the question. Of course, the recovery factor system is also active and has been shown to work very well. But all those factors certainly need to be kept in mind. I still want to thank you for a good discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u37	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for having this conversation with me on this matter. I realize that the inquiry is somewhat unusual, and I hope to the highest degree. Ministers respect the fact that I'm here just trying to think again, perhaps with a little thinking, when it comes to climate issues. I've had a conversation with the highest, too. Marine and agricultural ministers, in fact, on the exact same issue, on the resources or properties under which they are represented. The obvious conclusion is that when it comes to climate issues, it is such that there is no single magic solution, it simply needs to do everything we can do. Therefore, I have thought about whether the government with its assets, resources, and use of them could suggest some kind of policy that using their assets and resources would be necessary to protect carbon sharelessness. So when we get the resources we bring, i.e. The State, in use, will not increase the problem but, at least, replace it. It would be best for us to go further and that the use of the resources would even reduce carbon emissions. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if it is possible to assume that the terms of the use of common resources and property of the state will be guaranteed by the flow of carbon share. How would this policy be used in the battle against climate change and at the same time support of goals established by the government for non-carbonization Iceland in the year 2040? And how are international commitments in this regard? But because I'm also trying to be realistic and practitioner, I wondered how such policies would affect the use of the specified resources and property of the state. If a minister follows such a course, when would he feel that it would be reasonable to accept the effect it would have on those who use it? I realize that inevitability could not be imposed on, e.g. Fishing the resource I had a place to say about at the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers the other day. It would take for them to adjust to such demands. President, it may not be clear enough to ask, or it does not belong all in the Ministry Department's hat. Minister, but I hope he respects it to me, even taking a little thought with me here to see if we can use our shared assets in any way in the fight against climate change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u38	A respectable president. I welcome the opportunity to discuss these matters on this basis. It can be said that the government's main policy on these topics is reflected in a climate control program. We have set some ambitious goals, and we immediately began our work in the government covenant to set these matters before us, and we have followed them closely in my opinion. Now, when we ask about the common resources and property of the state, you would say, "Well, this is probably the main focus of the country's fish markets, energy resources to heat and drop power. " Yes, there is the kingdom, beyond farms, all manner of work. It also oversees land, nationalities, which are very insignificantly new. If you jump between these segregation groups, we might be able to say about the marine resources that it has the main point for a long time to be self-sustained. I'd like to say that they've achieved significant progress at first, in the fishing business itself, to achieve their sustainable goals. Since climate change became more apparent, exporters have striven to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and have achieved significant results in these products. A report by the European Commission from December 2017 reports that by 2016 the fishing industry has already reduced its emissions of greenhouse gases by 43% since 1990. In spite of this, it is clear that new energy sources will need to be used if the use of the fishing grounds is to be fully devoid of carbon. In contrast, the amount of carbon footprints that have different forms of protein for human consumption are likely to come out well in comparison with many other factors. But I'm going to point out that bringing us out of the country's rivers is now virtually out of carbon. It is some release from the use of earth's heat. Regarding the use of earth owned by the State and often renting farmers, we are especially involved in the use of sheep's hydrocarbons in recent contracts. When asked if it would be possible to define the use of carbon abstraction in general, as introduced into the pre-computer's case, I think it might be very difficult. Rather, we have chosen to set general goals for the community as a whole, meaning that we are setting, not specific goals for each industry or for every human ceremony, but rather the community as a whole. We plan governments for achieving these goals, and it may be necessary for people to work hard according to local standards. We also expect that, as it is obvious and has shown, non - state activities contribute, and we also call at homes and all others who can be involved here to reach, not just our international commitments, but the goals that we have set for ourselves that go further. I'd like to get to the end that I find this interesting, though. This is an interesting approach to an important subject and I have to make it happen today to say that I don't think we can do much more than we have resolved for now. In fact, we are struggling to reach the goals we have already set, although this may be a good guide when we consider the results each time, whether we have the opportunity to do more because of something we have under control or are in control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u39	Mr. President. First, I want to thank both of you. A senator and a chief. Minister for important questions and important answers. We're going slow, I won't say too slow if we hit the finish line, to speed up to an acceptable level on climate issues. Then it's mine, for example. at the Paris convention and this 1,5 ° B.C.E. The government plays a major role in all of this, along with individuals, organizations, communities, and businesses. I say a major role, and therefore it is important to think that a state's carbon share is non-carbon, and I encourage the activism of these chemicals in the spirit of a non-carbonitarian Iceland before 2040. We've heard earlier today about the severity of climate issues, and I'd like to inform you that there is a crude estimate of the world's expense of reaching this level of 1.5°, that's $23,000 billion, 23 trillion dollars, and if we don't get it until the 2° target, the $2000 billion will be 32.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u40	President. I once heard of a university in an American large city that applied to expand, could take some thousand or tens of thousands of students into school. The school received a refusal from the organizational authorities. The refusal was based on the fact that there would be so much growth in automobiles. The school might be extended if there was to be no growth in car traffic, or a 0% increase in car traffic, even though the number of students increased by about 10 to 20 thousand. The result? Yes, it was. The school was organized in that the car traffic did not increase any part of the expansion. Why am I making this decision? Yeah, because that's exactly what I'm seeing, that we could possibly do when it comes to using our resources. We simply set the conditions where the efficiency does not add in any way to our carbon footprints, and the kidneys become non-carbons. And I remind you that in a carbon deficiency, you have to reduce not only natural emissions but also binding. There are two ways, and that's why there's talk of a non-carbon object in this. I would like to go so far, when it comes to the nation's resources, all of us, owned by the State, to consider the whole chain, i.e. When talking about energy resources, we also need to consider what the energy is used for, i.e. The carbon footprints of the production itself - and replaces the electricity. That's when I'm just out of the question, even if it's high. Thank you very much. Minister for coming and participating in this discussion and answering this, so positive that we think in a novel way, for, as I mentioned earlier, President, we need to do everything. [[The president calls.]] It's not just something, we have to do everything when it comes to climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to say again that I like it. A senator presents an important subject on the program. This is one way to draw close to the way we go forward toward the chief goal we have set for ourselves as a community, for us as a nation. However, because of different functions, some jobs have the most low level of carbon footprints while others have high levels of carbon and it may be extremely burdensome to ask for a complete non-carbonization, since we are not in themselves reaching out for it, but our goals are more likely to be total emissions. Of course, it would be desirable in itself that there would be no emissions in relation to today's situation. On the other hand, I believe that because of this discussion it has already been said that Iceland and I have a lot to offer. That's the way Icelanders are like that. selling their knowledge on a field of geothermals in China. Iceland is introducing its fishing policy in many parts of the world as a model fishing system that maximises its produce. We're investing in the latest technology. Here are some products related to carbon binding that can be followed by an enormous opportunity, and finally we have studies in Iceland that are directly related to carbon emissions, which may include future possibilities that could even turn large stones into changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u42	Mr. President. Due to the number of paintings and people in the county's incest department in the capital area, I would like to report from the start of the office in 2015, matters that are being taken immediately. The department handles all family matters, such as divorce and predestination, society, court life, and other matters about adoption, death, law, and so on. Based on data from the incest department, the city of the capital area, where they are looking for legal and essential services, cannot have any information as to when the office can start handling their affairs. On the website of the office, it is said that none of the cases that protected the association of children with parent, foreview, law home, domestic aid, permission to travel abroad after September 2018, or in the past nine months were taken up for the first study. Let us see that even if a matter has been considered, it will be successful. They will be sent into legal reconciliation, and that will also be the case when appropriate, and they will take all of this for aeons of time. We're just talking about waiting for the appointment of an employee to take at least one. Nine months and even more. In this regard, Mr. President, there are little children who at times are not allowed to enjoy regular association with their parents. There are also adults who are applying for divorce in the wake of violence. There is also a simpler matter that can be solved quickly - but hardly in less than one year. This has profound consequences because the time interval, the time frame in which you are living, for example. The terms of divorce begin with the representative of the county. This has very consequences, Mr. President. This situation is completely unacceptable by a legal service agency and therefore the government is responsible. I've told you so many times, so I ask you the highest. The minister of Justice simple questions: Consider how she reacts to this bad situation that has been for many years at the county office in the capital area because of the lack of resources and large numbers of paints and has been the highest force. Will a minister plan to secure more money for the office so that the hearing of matters under this department can be accelerated?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Regarding the first team of the question, if the Minister will respond, I would like to state that from 2015 all new county agencies have had problems with business problems leading to sliding. That even meant that. failure at the end of 2016 when a substantial percentage of the tilt was dropped. However, this has not been enough and has not been able to run the operation within the budget. As a result, the Minister of Justice is responsible for this. worked with the politicians in the capital area for the last few years to achieve the necessary economy so that an acceptable basis can be created based on the same activity without the services being affected. At the same time, the Ministry has been meeting with both the family sector and the preliminaries on incest, with the goal of looking for ways to improve the position of the office, ensuring that a discussion will be provided within acceptable time periods. The process of analysis is not completed, but hopes for cooperation to result in improvement that will result in a successful outcome. Because of the situation in general the Commission is in charge of funding and business, the Justice Minister has employed in policies for the county office. On the basis of this, the then secretary of the district and the government introduced a vision of future affairs in the fall of 2018. It is the evaluation of the Ministry and the Ministry that review of the proposals and practices of the administrative bodies is designed to achieve the required management management in order to create an adequate control ground for carrying out legal tasks within the normal times and in the process of improving the services and efficiency of the offices. During the following months, it will be time to introduce the first phase of the electronic Parliamentaries at the county bodies. The main change in the application of the Parliament is that there will generally be automatic e-mailing, and in these circumstances it will not be possible for the members of the county to meet in their own interpretation unless the terms of the synonyms are not met. Thus, since the European Parliament's first selection and previous implementation is not fully understood when or how much the benefits of e - mail messages are made. Once fully implemented, the effect may lead to a loss of cost to the county office and may create opportunities for the county to change the work and to the work of employees. Electrical services in the Parliament have models, for example, for home banking services, electronically provide tax returns, and electronic toll pay. At the same time, the Ministry has begun working with the Digital Iceland Lab, with the aim of increasing the impact of electronic administrations in the county and thus improving the position of the workers of the offices so that they can be better able to handle their existing tasks. It is also important to draw attention to the development of the administrative organisations in the hands of their own citizens, including the provision of positions within the offices. This arrangement must take into account duties and pressures with the aim of the services to be the best - chosen and the provision of the available legal rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. I'm a little shocked, I must say, because it seems to be as high as the top. The Minister of Justice believes that these matters, listed in the previous inquiry, are merely practical. That this is all about making progress and somehow finding out when - as we have seen - it was clearly stated in a report by the National Review of the County Commission over the whole country - it was not a good time for the united convention to be adopted here on September 1, 2014, and it went into effect on January 1, 2015. This was started badly, the assignment was not being considered; it was not accompanied by financial support. Countless projects to be carried out by the Commission, e.g. As for filing and other things, I was unsaid and full of praise. Minister to read this report. This was a initiative check for the State Accounting that went on this evaluation of the county service and this is, in effect, a total spanking for the government, the way they were on this case. We will discuss this in particular at the council later. Mr. President. This situation isn't just about funding. Indeed, an electron description is an excellent example, but we do not take the same note and use it repeatedly. There's a cost of economy in these offices already. Not only are we able to reduce the number of workers but we intended to use the same staff in the incest ward to resolve the situation there. We have to think about the children, Mr President, and the people who are trying to get out of potentially evil relationships, violent relationships, and I think we have to do something other than refer to the fact that we're about to start an electronic announcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-95.u45	Mr. President. In this context, I would like to mention that the reason I specifically mention e-mails is that some of the county projects are electronically solved, make them much more efficient, and thereby less expensive, as well as improve services to citizens it needs to be used. Then there are other issues that cannot be resolved in this way, such as more delicate matters and family issues. A senator mentions. Hence, there is hope that by means of e - mail programs and other such projects that are many, both present and private, it will take its start and then create an opportunity to change the work of the offices. That's right, there's a economy catch in there, like everywhere else. Hence, they hoped that taking away a leaning would have better results in the year 2016 than it did. The state of the county service is not good enough, and that's why we're doing this. The Ministry of Justice has recently worked with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Council of the County for a complete analysis of the operation of all county reformed countries. This provides a solid basis for the decisions that will be made. It is hoped that it will, along with other operations of the Ministry, improve the longer term county office. These measures are mainly committed by the poor management position of the county bodies and are designed to correct this situation. Regarding the plans to secure more money for the office, the Ministry of Justice, as noted, is to work on various measures aimed at strengthening the affairs of the European Commission. This analysis of the EEA's environment is the basic premise for decision-making on the increased financial resources of the individual offices, including the county in the capital area. Where there is a conclusion on the analysis, planning, construction and operation of the administrative bodies as well as the influence of the induction of e - mails, there is no basis for transporting more money to the office in the capital area at this time.
