ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u1	Borist has a letter from 2th. Witchest. "Ásmundur, the Einar son of Daðason, that he will be absent at the next time in public affairs. So today, at the General Assembly, he is serving as a deputy of the 1st district advance list, Stefán the Vagn of Stefánsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u2	By letter, by day. On November 8, 2018, the president has requested to the budget board that it discuss a report by the State Review Office by 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u3	Mr. President. In the year 2024, a new Hospital on Ring Road is due to be completed. It comes as a surprise, then, that the majority of the legal committees suggest funding for the construction of a new Land hospital about 3.5 billion away from what was expected in the current financial programme and in the government budget of the 1st Environment. about a month ago. The poll says, with President's permission: There is now a further delay in the development of previously known financial programmes of 2020/2024. It accounts for a figure of 8.5 billion. Next year, investments in the construction of the hospital. It is now estimated that about 3.5 billion dollars. This publication will not be used within the year and will be moved to 2021. Thus, more heavy construction will take place in the years 2021◯2024. The next year's construction budget is reduced in this vital work on no less than 43%. This is not in harmony with what the financial policy says about the more relaxed production tensions. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ A slacker gives governments a chance to make a special contribution to various government investment projects where the construction of new Land Hospitals and transport initiatives is highest. Mr. President. What kind of trouble is this? Do you not all agree that a new U.S. Hospital is a priority? [[The president calls.]] Is this cutback the best government ever thought of to close the budget hole?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u4	A respectable president. Two months, January and February 2017, a two - month sentence judged illegal, and the state had to repay 5.4 billion. The misunderstanding has been that most of the people who are chemical memorizing were involved. The wealthiest are not in the government's insurance department. No one goes to reforms at the state insurance agency with over 575,000 dollars. From a monthly pension fund, but those left behind are mostly poor. We must realize that there were some 29,000 old - age pensioners, and an average of 95,000 are being cut down. Every month from a pension fund. But it didn't make any of the microchip. An invalid in a striped section of 214,000. In a month, we get 50,000 bucks. From a Treasure of Pension - What Does It Give Him? It's 80 percent tax and impairment. That will be 10,000 K., one fifth. The same is true at 100,000 K. A pensioner is being cut off completely in the system. But it is forgotten in this context that when a dollar in return was taken out of the pensioner patients, it was turned into a hundred and sixty-five dollars to one in microenergy pensioners. What did that mean? Yes, it did for eight months, an eight - month reimbursement that made special compensation and payment. People had come in a minus. With your left hand, people are constantly being handed pennies, but with right hand, they are tearing up a higher amount of money. They're going to live at 212,902 K. 214,519 K. down payment. For my part, I say, "Who is up for himself to live with so much shame?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u5	Mr. President. Reports are now being made that the medical staff and health insurance business are in a hurry, and this is added to the rod because there is still a non-surgent agreement with specialists and nursing staff regarding day - to - day expenses. These contracts have been available for months, and physical therapists in this case have reported this and no further, refusing to work after an expired contract. This adds up to repeated reductions due to health insurance activities, including In a report last year's State Review, which made serious comments on the professional management of Medical insurance insurance policy, questioned the maximum efficiency and efficiency of the health system being guided by it. To date, the assessment of the reporting company KPMG was shown, which is somewhat the same as that of KPMG, i.e. that there was a significant lack of professional management in health insurance. There must be a concern for the health minister when negotiations cannot be completed on such a major part of the health system as this one. When we put this together, nursing homes, contracting specialists, and now last contracts with physical therapists, it's about 30% of the government's expenses for health care every year. It must be unacceptable that such a major part of the medical system is performed without agreement. I trust that a minister will work for the better and will ensure that the operation of Medical Security is in a way that meets minimum standards for professional living, and especially to ensure that it is the most practical and effective purchase of public health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u6	Mr. President. Environmental issues are high on the horizon, and globally, there was a news story that carried the headline mass for the campaign against microplastics in beauty products. The United Nations Environment Agency asks: What is in your bathroom? As soon as people are encouraged to look at cosmetics in their bathroom, the objective is to get the public to think of the damage microplastics can cause. This is a campaign followed by a recent report showing that cosmetics can contain microplastics that end up in the ocean and are transported by marine organisms, resulting in our eating of microplastic fish. Microplastics are small or less than 5 mm in size. Scientists say that cosmetics contain up to 3 60,000 microbubbles. They are washed down by spills, are not filtered away by cleaning equipment, and are easily transported into the oceans. They look like food and are eaten by fish, and thus they enter the food chain. It is estimated that every year an estimated 8 million tons of plastic end up in the ocean. This is equivalent to emptying one garbage truck into the ocean every minute. This spread of microplastics and disposable plastics, which increase the problem even beyond that, is a major concern. I guess we're way too reckless about the microsphere, which is, yes, invisible. You don't really wonder about it for us, I think, when you put on creams or wash your hair or what it is. Between 60 and 90% of the waste accumulates along the shores, on the surface of the sea floor, and on the seabed is plastic and is thought to harm about 800 species of marine life and 15 of them at risk of extinction. Not only are marine life at risk but the health consequences of microplastic tumors can be expected to affect people even though they are not fully understood. If people prefer to monitor this further, the United Nations Environment Agency invites all to consult products in their bathrooms and apply for information on the Agency's Instant account on how to participate in the campaign. I urge people to check in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u7	A respectable president. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. I also hear the serious news that now comes to us about therapists and their dealings with Iceland's Medical Insurance. I'm going to talk about two things, but first I'll agree with every word. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson said before I did. I'm going to add that the sad part of the situation is exactly that now a patient or someone who's looking for help from a physical therapist is paying the bill 100% on the spot and going to Iceland's Medical Insurance for a refund. There are a lot of people out in the community that just can't afford it, that's totally clear. They will probably rather not go to physical therapists. Other than that, agents from physical therapist Society point out that older citizens will certainly not ride a fat horse from this and will not be accepted into their homes. I also intend to accept only the ball of my fine council leader and member of the people, Guðmundur Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, who mentioned earlier why apples and oranges are being confused. At Gang of the People, we took legal action on behalf of older citizens. We did this, and the State has to pay 5,400 million because of wrongdoing. The only thing that woke us up was to point out an unprofessional, unconventional practice. The bill on the subject walked through three discussions at the council and was actually left alone. It was illegal, and it doesn't matter whether it affects a billionaire or a person with only 5,000 bucks. Just out of the pension fund, the state was breaking the law, and that was all we were going with. We certainly hope that this will be a warning example and that this legislature will ever learn so thoroughly from our mistakes that we try more carefully the laws we establish and expect the city to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u8	Mr. President. On June 12, 2018, the prime minister appointed a committee for challenges and opportunities for technological changes. This committee has now produced, just before the weekend, its first report on the development of society for the next 15-520 years, with emphasis on sectoral, environmental, regional and demographic factors and their impact on the State's income and expenditure development. To date, public members have tried to organise the trend over a period of time in an orderly manner, but such analysis is necessary to provide better grounds for a decision-making in important issues. Such analyses are also needed to improve the context of decision-making to a shorter time when it comes to target and long-term prognosis. A good analysis helps to evaluate the effect of the fourth industrial revolution on key roads and opportunities to build up, and it can be predicted what education and talents and knowledge are needed to ensure continued prosperity of society in a changed environment. All of this, of course, goes hand in hand. The report published on Friday covers a wide range of factors, based on questions to experts and the public and their answers, as well as their study of their education. It is being watched at a very short period of 2030-2040, but it is expected that in reality the results of the poll will better describe the continued process that we will see in real life gradually over a longer period of time. The nature of the matter cannot be predicted for the future with great certainty, but if it is our destiny to be wrong to us, it can, at least, be wrong as effectively as possible. I would really like to encourage members and others to study this brief report. She's very fun, and especially because of what Richard Buckminster Fuller said back then, that we should be architects of the future, not her victims.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u9	A respectable president. Prior to the weekend, the U.S. Marshal of Congress arranged for a joint meeting of four members of the Parliament to introduce to us his first visit report for the so-called OPCAT. The OPCAT monitoring is based on an optional book making up a UN Convention against torture and other brutal, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment, a book indicating an independent control party in the Member States of the Convention. It makes an assessment in places where people are deprived of their freedom to counteract the risk of torture and other disrespectful treatments or punishment. The first visit by the U.S. Marshal in that checkpoint was at Klepp, where he took out a legal ward, a security ward, and a special rehabilitation unit. The report is extensive and well - equipped, but it contains indications of a number of wrongs in the law presented here in this discourse for some time. The report states that there is no legal authority for the use of force against those sentenced to save from their will in a legal ward. It also shows that much clearer legal legislation is missing to use economists in a state of safety and rehabilitation of the resources used there to force either drug administration or to ensure safety in the department. A respectable president. This is a very serious situation and a clear violation of the human rights of those saved in these institutions. We all have a right to self - determination. We all have the right to privacy. The state of the court commands that this right not be passed on by the government except by law, but it is not available. The legislators have nothing to do with this for decades in spite of repeated European Commission protests against torture, which have pointed to inexplicable and inadequate legislation on the use of force since 1994. Mr. President. An agent's report shows black and white that the basic human rights of people with a mental disorder have been ignored for years. However, that question is hope, for last spring this council agreed to appoint a special committee to reconsider this wrongdoing. [[The president calls.]] That's good, because it's time now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u10	A respectable president. The rules for the meeting of fixed committees show that the smaller portion should normally have no less time than two days to return a party to members of the committee. I mention it again, because once again it happens in financial or financial contributions that a financial committee is doing a majority opinion, and then just one day later a debate is started. It came to my ears that some agreement had been made to make it okay. But that's not true, I always objected and always insisted on getting those two days, at least for the two days, to complete the commission. I've done this before and I'll continue to do this because in one of the biggest cases held by the General Assembly, we should show the lesser portion the politeness to use at least The minimum time specified in the strict management guidelines. The reduction of parts is constantly being done for a time to review the reviews and the comments of the majority of the section. The matter is constantly being pushed into question earlier than the rules tell us to do. So the rumor that a deal had been made to me, and that's why it would be permitted, is not true. I urge the President to find out where that rumor came from.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u11	A respectable president. I'm going to be on the same line as two other senators, discussing Iceland's Medical Insurance. There seems to be war around those institutions these days, and for over a year there has not been a contract with a nursing home that is a very bad situation. The construction of the households is in irons, and many rural groups pay a substantial amount of money by business. I'm aware of a small fortune that owes up to 70 million to the harems. Then the Agency has decided to take out the small pressure that has caused many smaller homes to be a major business problem. This is not easy to understand that the small financial burden paid at the moment can be a separation between a dead and an unsurpassed business. In this case, we have received no explanation of what has happened to the amount of money spent there. I also agree with what has happened here and worry that there are no completed contracts with physical therapists and specialists as well as nursing homes. It's also very boring, and it's very bad for us to see in the papers this morning that Iceland's Medical Insurance has reported charges on physical therapists to the Contestant Institute. I feel that once things are in this place, it's not our decent practice that we're there. We've had plenty of time to make these contracts, and I strongly encourage Iceland's health insurance to settle down at the contract table with an organization on nursing homes and rural society, specialists and physical therapists and complete the agreements as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u12	Mr. President. For many years in Iceland, growth bags have been fraught with homes and businesses, but there has been some change during the past few months. In effect, with new bank managers, new dishes have proved to be best swept because the bank's main interest has dropped from 4.5% in March to 3% today. However, this trend could be halted because it was the turn of a guest who was present as governor in 2009 -2013, i.e. a representative of the World Bank Fund, who said that it was enough. This will be illustrated by the next growth decision which actually governs growth in Iceland, whether it's the Secret Bank of Money, or the World Cash Fund. But what has not been the result of this development is the growth of business banks. They haven't changed much, and it's because of the property on the banks. You would have thought that those who manage the banks, at least two of the three, would be the same ones who promised workers in the employment market that there would be reform on the bank's loans. Hence, what the bat has already suggested must be an appeal to the bank's business to dress up in bridges and adapt interest rates to bank interest. Besides, we must not forget that although fliers are low, 3%, they are still on the other side of the zero in neighboring countries. There is still some way to go before we can begin to praise the Federal Bank on high ground for its policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u13	A respectable president. Iceland's health insurance policy has decided to assign Kingdom Halls to provide physical training in the capital area, and this is in accordance with the laws on public purchases set out under the European Parliament and Council of 2014. These laws are important because practical shopping is a key to making good use of public funds. A team of physical therapists have pointed to many baits in this way. The most important factor is to get a good result, not only for those who receive the ministry but also for the state that pays it down. But should health and social services be subject to public shopping and its laws? The North countries have adopted laws, the same laws, and the same official purchase directives, but they have set specific medical and social services. Norway has a set of regulations in the law of public shopping, which discuss the provision of health and social services to set up a health and social status requirement. The variety, quality, harmonization, and participation of users in the ministry should be emphasised. A respectable president. I think it is a wise approach, and as a small country, we should go the same way. Right after the start of a new government, the payment system was changed, enabling others to use the services of physical therapists. It is also on the agenda to promote a career in the field of prowess and public health. Health and social services are a sensitive group of subjects. Hence, we cannot approach him in the same way as a funeral project or other major government roads. Other conditions include health care purchases. Medical and social services must always be obtained by specific methods and regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to call attention to a case that I must admit has bothered me a little since I entered the Council two years ago. It was reported in January 2012 that huge stones were placed outside the General Building. There was then news of the ride of the so - called Black Clan of Civil Disobedience by artist Santiago Sierra. The fine artist calls himself a dissident, but I guess that's not a legitimate job title. All messages from the Council, from the beginning of this act, have been that the work should not be done there. Of course, the city of Reykjavík has sent a general message of slowness to the general board of directors. I would like to refer to the words of Vice President I Ragnhein, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, who said in May 2012 that it was a classy thing to put this on the Eastfield. It was unanimously agreed on by the Presidency Committee that the work groaned in contrast with the entire Eastern picture, which is quoted by the daughter of Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. Reykjavíkurburg cleaned up, moved the black bowling around a few meters, and now stands in front of Sales of the Allellis. So I would like to refer to the President of the Generals and the Commission as part of a conversation with the city of Reykjavík, where the objective and conclusion will be that the rock - mass, this so - called black cone, will be taken from the east. This so-called art doesn't belong here. For me, I can say, I want this away, and the first time is the best in terms of it. This would be appropriate for Christmas - since the Brooklyn Museum has valued the work at 25 million years ago - to negotiate with the artist to sell it and to provide the proceeds for the Mother's Committee. I'm sure he won't mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u15	A respectable president. Our jobs in the Northern Council are many and important, and I'm going to present here what we present to our group of right men, including ours. to attend the recent Council of Northern Congress in Stockholm. Secular democracy is important to all of us, and it has been reported to us during this council as well as at the Council of the Northern Council. Secular democracy is best guaranteed by the fact that each country has its primary obligation by upholding its laws and regulations, thus ensuring the safety of its citizens. Faith in the state of justice is an important democracy, and this belief has existed among the Norwegian people. Yet, there is evidence that this religion is dwindling and that there is increased concern about crime. This was suggested in this light of two proposals. On the one hand, the Council of Northern countries directed them to the Northern governments to the Norwegian countries to adopt a harmonization policy in terms of risk factors related to distribution 5G equipment, to the Norwegian countries coordinated measures and their position in international agreements due to safety concerns related to the implementation of the 5G network, to the Norwegian countries seeking to maintain each other's informed development within the EU and NATO and to the Norwegian countries a basis for evaluating other safety concerns as well as shopping or tender inputs. However, we proposed a Senate proposal for increased safety with the New York model, that the North countries will consider the lessons from the New York model and how to apply that lesson in the Norwegian countries. The method used is based on scrolling and not being made to pass long before others are broken. I hope the proposals are well prepared in the Northern Council and that the Icelandic government will be interested in this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u16	Mr. President. Greta Thunberg fired a series of shots against the North countries as she turned down the northern Council's environmental prize in the days. She said that there is little behind environmental debates in the North. There was nothing lacking, however, that the northern countries would gloat over what they did; they did not lack beautiful words. It's exactly the feeling I get when Icelandic executives talk about their actions. Never has any government contributed as much to climate, say it, as if news were coming to cry out loud. It would be news, however, if the government had not put more than any other government in these matters. Greenhouse gas emissions have grown in this country, but they are not reduced as they were. The facts speak for themselves and show that climate is not about choice of lifestyles but about life itself. Since all must be included, governments must work together on human rights and an increase in equality. People who don't make it through a month's drive can't take further spells. We politicians can compromise, but we cannot compromise with the climate, as we were thoroughly reminded of at the Council of Northern Congress. In fact, global warming is a fact, causing more and more damage. Politicians must be not afraid to lead inevitable social change. The common people are willing to do things and work hard for future generations, that has been shown. However, governments need to point the way through practical measures in which the general public has a challenging, effective but manageable role. The same is true of companies and institutions. We politicians should emphasize the importance of cultivating fellow feeling and reconciliation regarding the inevitable changes and changes in our consumption habits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u17	A respectable president. I will use this opportunity to discuss matters that I have discussed before in a public talk, on rights, and especially on the duties of parents to care for their children after divorce. I think the lawgiver and those who have appointed this hall before us have worked hard to establish a law code so that children have the right to be with both parents and the parents should be able to care for their children despite divorce. But unfortunately, when it comes to these topics, the computer has said a little no, in view of the fact that Iceland's National Congress, which is holding out the interests of people in this country, is still in the process of cooking old family numbers and was never intended to share information about who has custody for their children. This has been the case, in response from the highest level. A health minister to my inquiry, that in fact, the health care of Iceland's health law has broken when the Agency sends information on child health into the home but is not listed on the child who is not yet 18 years old, not on the parent who has custody of the child, but on the stepparent, the oldest social security number at home. It is natural that in 2019 we are still dealing with one of such systematic problems. The good news is that before the council there is a bill, no. 101, on the registry of individuals who are partly involved in this case and at last allow a national registry to collect information and distribute information on the veneer so that the information on who has custody of the children and businesses can then be obtained. I'd like to use these last seconds to encourage banks, insurance companies, and any institutions that need to broadcast such information to adapt their system so that they can still share this information, since the present situation is completely intolerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u18	V.E.G. President. We're starting 2nd. ... abundant. I recommend more of that committee party. The budget board. The bill was referred to the Committee after the 1st. September 16th. The committee began its regular coverage of sending the case for review and then held a meeting with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, where the bill was covered. Then there were other conferences that covered the planned state spending of causes and litigation classes of members of the local minister where the responsibility lies. Then a review of the reviews and demonstrations received, and a number of reviews were very helpful this time, careful and detailed, and the conversation referred to by the committee with a reviewer is an important factor in the whole process. Of course, it differs according to the nature of the history of the approach, from the economic picture and perspectives and emphasis, as well as the discussion of specific expenses and spending priorities. The members who met the Committee are listed in the Committee's list of members. The executives of the bill are based on the Motion of the Hauspology but on the 1st. has come up with new economic forecasts, on November 1, and we got into trouble. The Office's financial committee at a meeting of the Committee to review key changes from previous economic forecasts, the economic forecast to the core of the bill. As for this part of the process, I would like to say, sir, that it is in my mind very important for the committee to be careful about the narratives and to have this conversation with different parties as soon as we see that the deviation from the financial programme at the original bill is small, for which the law directly assumed that a financial bill is being taken for spring time. Gradually, as we proceed further with the procedure that the law measures and plans become fixed, the scope of a budget and the variance of debates will be maintained, preferably the response to needed changes and economic forecasts. This presentation is gradually drawing up with each of the funds and natural requirements to ask itself on the road and all the work that the committee does, whether it is worth, and is actually returning to the parties involved, which, of course, are the people in the country. I'd like to say yes, it's very necessary and important to us, despite everything. This is a consistent policy process, and the argument of reviews and conversation continues, if not in direct adjustments to the council and forward to Ministers, and affects policy-making plans for the future. I think, however, a respectable president, that we should all consider how we can make the process more efficient for the council. I'll give you more space to take another ring with advice after the review process is over. Of course, the committee tries to follow up a conversation by calling for more data and information in the form of a memo, and such work would even be more useful. To a greater extent, the committee has called for additional data and information than most before, and I have it from the committee's editors. One idea to create this space would be like... to bring economic forecasts further in time, to form April, October rather than May, November at present or even, as these are the proposed sources for next year, and to base on predictions that swing, to aim for one forecast. That's what I'm going to do for a discussion. As usual, they received various requests for financial contributions, financial requests. Has the committee increasingly in accordance with official financial law referred them to an appropriate minister as soon as it is recorded. According to the Commission, the Ministers of the case review these requests, evaluate them according to each case-of-the-art policy, and perform depending on negotiations or contributes to the situation, and it is important that the minister increasingly adopt this procedure in accordance with the law. Several tasks are given in the modifications made by the greater part regarding temporary contributions, and ministers should enter their contract frames or where they are added or need to review existing contracts. As expected in the public financial law, financial programmes are eliminated more accurately, and the topic fields are broken down by the Ministry and seminars of the bill. For financial changes, see section 5.3. As I was able here to discuss, there are minor variations in a budget for a financial bill and can be said to say that there it is becoming a permanent and long - term thought of terms designed by the law. They want to burn at 2nd. the budget and the emphasis on the change of the subject according to the main objective and focus of the case. Governments that appear on the bill - I'm not going to say they're forgotten, but you can keep them in line for the context of things. The changes in the terms we are actually dealing with are about 1% of the total budget of the budget and they run the more part of the committee party I refer to, but the subject of tax reductions and the changes in income taxation systems in accordance with the biographer contract to ensure the full benefit of all revenue groups of production and to increase the resources of income-rich groups. The insurance bill is reduced by 0.25 percentage points in the next year, which is the second proportion of 0.5 percentage points total in two years. We see a positive response and are now increasing between discussions to cope with it. Children's reforms are increasing, and building buildings is increased. Then there is a good - looking increase in investments, as shown in the financial programme, and it is urgent that long - term investment agreements do not violate the objectives of public financial sustainability. The best projects are the construction of new land hospitals, which, in fact, are now reduced by 3.5 billion due to time travel or subsidies between the budget years, the purchase of helicopters for the Landland Guard, the continued development of nursing homes, the building of a new ocean research ship, and the building of the Housesic. Under the circumstances that we live in the economy, it is very important to place increased power in public investment, and in the bill an investment of over 72 billion dollars is expected. twice since 2017. The bill is submitted in accordance with law No. 123/2015, public financial matters. 16th degree. The law of the law shows how the figure of the bill is built up and put forward. 14th degree. it shows that this is in harmony with financial goals. As a result of a review of financial policy in the spring, the changes in the total public survival were reduced according to the changing economic outlooks. The focus was to contribute to the maintenance of public financial levels, not to shrink or break economic growth beyond the adjustment of the economy. In order to improve flexibility, a special uncertainty margin of 0.8% of gross domestic product was expected to reach the year 2019◯22022. This turned out to be a very positive step, and it has been found to be necessary to make use of it in the light of a new economic forecast published by the Habitat on November 1. Of course, you wonder, " How exactly do I take into account between paying off government budgets and the financial bill, and then between discussions in the same way? ' The key point is that, like financial advisers repeatedly called in their reviews, we have tailored to the government press. We see that, therefore, plans are better kept, as we see in very small variations from the budget to a budget bill. Thus, the aims of recovery are designed to gain automatic fluctuation in terms of government, expenses, and income. The target thus works against the fluctuation, improving economic growth, as shown in the forecast, i.e. from the previous predicting of 2.6% quality growth in 1.7% economy, thus looking for equilibrium. This has led to a change of 2.6% from 3.2% in terms of the bill's impact on income reassessment and is now paying back. The main objective of the State budget is to establish, but the budget of the budget is primarily to expand to one year. In this way, the target of living in an integrated space of uncertainty towards the overall demand and thus work toward balance, stability, and the increased potential for long-term maintenance of public financial sustainableity. It is also of interest, as well as the importance of a national budget and money policy. The reviews and reports that confirm this are important and consider the greater part important to draw it out because this has not been the case for many years, the message that money policy and financial policy work toward the same goals. There are national predictions, similar to Hagues, and so is the case if we were to end up in the November break-in of Iceland's Bank of Money. Information about the aims of a budget bill and government initiatives and that sort of interaction. It is noted that government initiatives increase domestic resources and stimulate demand by reducing taxes and increasing productions of a total of 90 billion dollars. in 2020/2022 or about 2.7% of gross domestic product. This slacking point in terms of government spending will increase the provision and the general demand will be increased. The Semitic bank is going to deliver this amount of 0.5% for economic growth and about 2% for private consumption over the years 2020/2022. The late bank estimates that according to last year's revisions of Hague Labs, the maintenance of the state's budget has lax, as measured by the economic fluctuation of the adjusted budget more than the previous assessment indicated. There is a chance to be more supportive of national development during the interwoven season. As we know, the UN Bank's main interest rate has dropped considerably over the past few months and is now 3%, thus reducing by 1.5 percentages since May and not less since 1995. According to all of this, a respectable president has changed the basis for economic growth and prices to reevaluate income, paying up as well as new information on the collection of taxes, and the development of budgets reminds us that the budget bill is actually legal - like accounting in general, shut down and renovated - living document and moving closer to what happens every day from day to day. You could say that we're looking at it here in the event of an update and a reassessment, and with the changes we make on the income and pay side. Estimated overall effects of change in primary equations are 10,456,4 billion. K. and the income declines by 9,673 billion. K. and costs increase by 783.4 billion. K. The growing equation is improving with lower inflation and lower interest rates, since the cost is higher than the income. The overall effect is 378,3 billion. K. Of the more than 1,000 billion cubic feet of the budget, this is 1% more dignified President. As I said before, that question can be asked what and if it tells us something, and it is fascinating to consider in the context of the times. In any case, the theory can be stated that there is a mirror of discipline that was laid up in a legal and financial structure in the framework of public financial laws. We will continue to make a handsome contribution on the initials, or less than 38 billion, of vital importance, and the project is to work on the interest of a state fund. It suggests a little effort to have achieved by wise financial management to subsidize the debt of state funds, achieving significant and significant results in a relatively short period of time, but the weight of interest is just as high in the context of the shares. The debt rate is going to go, from the bottom, next year to 22% of the gross domestic product, and is now well beyond the law's debt. It is remarkable that with such a powerful element, we and our plans, despite their survival, can continue to pay off debts over the next year about 72 billion years. It is important to keep to the level that the element is strong and positive, and it has been for a long time, since 2012. For the estimated decrease in income from reduced activities, taxes on income increase and profits decrease by 7.3 billion. Most of the difference in corporate income tax reduction due to less profit. It is estimated that taxes on goods and services reduce a total of 5.1 billion. In spite of this, a tax worth of 1.3 billion is expected to yield. more than before estimated, including Because the consumption of the international population of Icelanders is contracted, while the consumption of foreign tourists is not intertwined, and this is remarkable. The plan of most other planetary taxes is down. This function is from a plan of 2.5 billion k. taxation of travel services, as well as the lack of income from sentennial taxes for a while working on collections. The estimated collection of automobile taxation has been re-evaluated, leading to 900 million. K. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 The pay stock of the next year will be 2.5% lower due to less employment and less pay levels, and it will be proposed that insurance spending a total of 2.6 billion dollars. Other incomes are down by 4 billion dollars. and weighing there on the weight of 2.1 billion dollars. reduction of fishing costs based on evidence of the expected fishing account for the next year's fishing. In 2018, hunting costs are based on the management of agricultural companies, and the result was not good in historical terms, the lowest profit since 2010. In part, this is explained by the increase in fishing investments leading to higher graduations in 2018. It may be that if the fishing system was based on older laws, the total pay amount would not exceed 2 billion dollars. According to current fishing laws, it is now estimated that five billion dollars will be collected. next year. Low interest rates lead to 900 billion. K. lower interest rates in addition to the benefit of HTVR, approximately 1 billion were overrated. in the bill. Against these declines, 4.8 billion have been weighed. increase in sales of government release, but in part, their sales are moving from year to year. Finally, $2.2 billion is available. Remuneration from the Icelandic student funds. The reimbursement is a remuneration tool for making donations in the previous years, which proved to be too high for many years in a row. Expenditures increase by 783 billion, but the total cost goes down at a total of 542 billion dollars. where interest costs decrease by 1,325 billion. K. As a result of the reduction of the most reassessment of a new Hospital Action Programme, projects have been more slow than the criteria set for the bill, and this suggests a factor of 3,500 million. K. reduction as a result. Second, most importantly, recalculation of pay, crew and price-fixing budgets, especially due to lower inflation forecasts. For an increase, it's gonna be about 1,878 million. K. Remuneration from a pay fund, followed by 1,300 million. K. which will be explained by the irregular expenses of the birth ordinary funds, both because of planned extensions of holiday but also also also because more parents are making the most of the necessary rights in the fund, a respectable president, a very positive one, since we are reaching the goal of these changes. To strengthen hospital management, 600 million are added. K. and the Minister will make arrangements for the management of hospitals. Is intended to improve hospital care, but in particular the lack of a full staff of nurses at the National Hospital and Medical Hospital in Akureyri. At that time, 300 million are being added to development, as was the case in the Committee's list of parts at the work of the State budget in order to achieve the objectives of developing cooperation. To tell these proposals about the change in income and the remuneration gate, the primary balance will remain strong with a handsome change of less than 38 billion, but it has been positive since 2012. The overall recovery will be negative by 9,710.7 million. K. but it depends on the uncertainty that financial policy allows. The slope, according to a range of 0.3% of GDP, was recorded at a maximum of 0.8% of GDP. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, that the government finance policy is thus designed to provide resistance in the economy. The Commission has made clear the development of data on this development as early as 2011 and can be used to support these data. to see what money is going to do and how the importance of individual causes is to develop in time. This is important, I think, and my assessment that a budget board has to work evenly with such information and assess the expenses of state funds and their development in terms of the law's baselines, especially self-sufficiency. If you look at the season since 2017, government funds have risen by 158 billion dollars. which is 18.9% absolute. A respectable president. I have now seen the main changes in income and pay between discussions of economic development and change in economic forecasts and the economic importance and the context of the state's budget and the construction process and the financial process. I'm not going to discuss specific topics, but I'm not going to refer to the Commission's opinion of the greater part, and I'm sure that my colleagues in the greater part will review it further in speeches and memory, as well as in their historical history, and then in the later discussion and objections, and hopefully they'll be very meaningful. I would like to state, however, that the majority decided after a useful meeting with representatives of the Quantum Community to respond to some factors of their review and of their conversation at that meeting. Well, more than 15 million is involved. K. An additional addition to the Multi-educed, Long-term Education and Knowledge Centre. Then the larger part makes a suggestion to drop from 12.2 billion. K. The maintenance requirement set out in the bill at 27.30 on disabled subjects and the anticipated reduction to rights. The Commission's review of December remuneration is implemented, and under the Regulation, microenergy and rehabilitation pensions are paid December prices of 30% of the sum of income insurance and household support of each pensioner. The majority of the projections plan to change the budget of the year 2018, where payment will be made this year, that the micro-and-replacement pensioners paid Decemberly and entitled to such payment will also be paid special extra pay, remuneration, which is not considered to be of interest in calculating benefits based on social services, housing and special housing support of rural society. Of course, this need to be determined whether the payment laid is within a reserve. The majority assumes that the interests of microenergy and rehabilitation services will be improved by increasing emphasis on recycling and the implementation of a new system for people with impaired ability to work. Such changes will require increased financial support, and it is important that they be well prepared and implemented in a good consultation with a microorganism interests organization. The majority of the parts focus on a scene showing up at the job given by a transnational staff and a minister has a discussion and followed by this introduction here, let's say, produce that result in success. I refer to the committee's opinion and discussion, which I hope will be upbuilding and beneficial. But at the end, I want to come to an error in the text I wish to be corrected. Top of page 4. 12 Says of the Icelandic student loan fund, a respectable president: However, it has no effect on the expense of the fund. Rather, it is handled only with a hand - set of over 100 billion dollars. Here, if you'd like to consider discussing your own money, not handmade money. The payment of the fund is now over 13 billion dollars. The correct procedure is, however, that has no effect on the expense of the fund. Rather, it is only going on with its own money of over 100 billion. I discussed the importance of money policy interaction and financial policies, which are confirmed, including the following: In the money business of the Secret Bank I referred to, and the way the government finance policy, as it is designed today, is designed to promote resistance, and we get the curved direction so that our plan will be more successful. This confirmation can be found elsewhere, including in the opinion of the World Bank Fund after a visit to Iceland. Perhaps the most interesting thing is to see that the International Cash Fund says that the government's economic response to the fall of WOWair and other economic attacks earlier in the year was at its right and fast. It refers to relaxation in terms of short term and intermediate periods of government growth as well as a reduction in control interest. Substantial increases in labour contracts have also contributed to the lower unemployment rate. The largest part of the workforce in developed economic systems is the workforce in the Icelandic labour market. Supporting the support of the Icelandic economy and the credibility of an economist has resulted in softening the down cycle and the economy being thus ready to resume. A similar story can be illustrated by the rise in the credit balance of Mood's credit ratings, which is referred to as a decrease in debt and support of public funds. There are two major reasons for that increase. This I further mention and confirm with pleasure that the money policy and the government policy work in rhythm. I'd like to finally thank all those who have orders. The budget and the powerful writers of the Committee for a good job on the bill. As usual, I expect the bill to go to the Committee for 3. The environ ment suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes presented here and explained as well as a proposal to be made on special Parliaments. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, and Þóra Árnadóttir Auradótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u19	President. According to the bill of a fishing secretary, it is to meet the government's costs for fishing and, on the other hand, to ensure a direct and visible share in the survival of the fish. Now it turns out that the cost of fishing will be lower than the cost and share of the nation will be destroyed through the fishing reserve. The salmon hunters will pay more for their fishing licenses next year than they will for big-ass builders. I think it's a strange politics for a senator to hide behind the rules that they themselves changed, and we, along with others, said at the time to translate the reduction of fishing fees. It is a striking fact that the sum of fishing fees has dropped more than half since this government began, and that is the political question we are facing, how high the price of fishing is, how fair it is to be, in view of the survival of the article that has been reasonably good, including in 2018. So I'd like to ask, Mr. President, why does it say why? A senator for a financial bill that does not expect any of the nation's direct share in the survival of the fish by means of the fishing cover and does not even cover the expenses paid by taxpayers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's question. It's all right. A senator enters the fishing fees he has worked hard to tell the nation that they are down so much. Hv. A senator talks a lot about the cost, and he has to explain to me more about what he's talking about when he speaks about the cost of the people. We're getting 5 billion dollars in the state's budget from hunting expenses, that's how it is. And as I came into my speech, if older laws were valid where we were far away in time, improving, there would not have been as much regard for the survival or investment that the future looked upon, the absolute key to the survival of companies across the country and industry as I could long have considered. So I cannot help but understand why. A senator is considering this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u21	Mr. President. That's very clear. By the time this government became the government, the fishing cover cost was 11.2 billion. When the budget was submitted just two months ago, it stands in 7 billion. Now it's almost time for them to go down to five billion dollars. This is what I'm talking about. This is a anticipated trend. When the law was changed in 2018, the United States and other agencies pointed out that it would mean a reduction in hunting licenses. When it comes to the cost, I refer only directly to the bill of a seafaring minister who makes up his bill for fishing fees what is involved in the taxpayers'expenses due to this article. That's 5.1 billion. In other words, it's higher than any of you would trust to collect in hunting bills next year, and that's very peculiar to me. The purpose of fishing is two kinds, to meet costs that they no longer pay and to give the nation a direct and visible share in the survival of the fish. It's exactly what it says on the top of the report. Secretary of the sea. That can't be any clearer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The key point is that we have a sustainable fishing road. We have a fishing road that returns income to the population. That's key. Hv. A senator points out that in the leading of a change in the law, the United States suggested that the income of the pay would be reduced. The opposite is taking place, much less than 2 billion. The price would have been 2 billion, much more than 3 billion. If we had followed the old law, the price would have been 2 billion instead of 5 billion. [[The old system has changed.]] The old system would have returned 2 billion. [[Up front.]] A new law is 5 billion. That's why we set new laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u23	A respectable president. Hv. A senator and the chairman of the legal committee spoke extensively about the great responsibilities and firmness that were in the administration of public financial and financial matters, especially under the direction of this government. Now we're relatively fresh from a spring discussion where we had to give the government extra space to make a living because of a lot of spending and spending. The prayer has been given in an unprecedented way. Last year we supplied budget estimated to have 28 billion leftovers, or 1% of land production, but now we're going to have at least 28 billion land production. in the range of 0.5% of land production this year, and not all growl to a grave yet. We still have a lot of uncertainty about the development of economics, but the government intends to provide budgets for 2020, with a view to 0.33/4.4% of the land produced by the total budget of the government's financial policy. Trust 'em. The chairman of the budget board because there is no such uncertainty in the economy ahead that it is safe to handle matters so closely?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator asks if I trust that this will hold everything together and if there is no uncertainty at all. Uncertainty is always there. So it is important to build stability, so we can face uncertainty. In my speech, I said that the uncertainty gap had been built into this GDP, and it was a successful step, just to keep plans, so the curve is on course. That's why I say this government policy is just designed to meet the swing just as it is. That's how it works. That is what financial counsel has repeatedly pointed out to us. We can see that it's working now. It's not just that the predictions we watch confirm it, they're still predicting interest next year, 1.7%. We certainly are doing this to soften the effect. It's confirmed in the Secret Bank of Money, and I went here to review more members who have confirmed it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u25	Mr. President. The very point is that uncertainty will not be lifted until a year is closed in 2020. In a year and a half, we'll see what the outcome of the budget we're discussing here. When the government has predestined the entire uncertainty gap, it is likely to do so, confident that there is no uncertainty in the next year's national budget, that there will be no uncertainty next year. Then I would again show that we talked last night about funding, which showed 1.5% of the government spending between the years of the uncertainty of the economic situation since we finished budgets last year until we're in the interest of budgets for 2019. I ask them, What will this government do that year if uncertainty continues as it has been? For the depth of this downturn has not yet come down to the grave.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Me and what. A senator agrees that uncertainty will always exist in the economy. The economy is just the human life, it's alive. Surely we are based on a plan, and I came into it in my speech. You wonder, when we are in this financial process, and I think it's a good question at the moment. A senator, how accurate we should be in taking into account the economic forecasts as soon as we are looking into the year. We'll be back in January, and soon after that, we'll start with a national financial programme. Then we'll have to look into it. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator's uncertainty is widespread in the world's economy, and it affects our situation. We need to read and read in the uncertainty that is growing. But what I was trying to say in the previous answer and again is that we've built more flexibility in the state policy that I believe is the right to meet uncertainty's improvement and make plans stand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u27	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly address criticism. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, at hunting fees, for there is something crazy about the use of money in investments instead of completing it as a resource fee. This is the use charge of the resource, but it says, "No, I'm not paying for the population. I'm going to use some of it in investments, and that's why I'm paying less. This is ridiculous. Other: Hv. The chairman of the budget committee identified the timing of national interest forecasts. Then I'd like to ask the chairman about the timing of financial programs. It will likely be relatively unfortunate in the spring of 2021, just before election, will arrive in April, and the council is about to say goodbye soon before election. There will be no time for financial planning. I ask if it's not right to bring a financial plan just over the year, even immediately in February. And another simple question: Are we following official financial laws? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I want to answer the last question: Yes. With regard to investments and hunting costs, it's very strange. I couldn't agree. A senator who says that it is unnatural for a business to build up, and we assume that they are in a position to reinvent. This is something most important to our future career. I just don't understand such speculation. We need to consider all over the country and all the fishing industry, and when we tax such companies, being guided by such companies will be moderate and equal. The company must have the opportunity to reinvest. This is a key work ethic. With regard to the timing of financial programmes, I would like to ask. The senator says to reiterate that question so that I can answer it. I just lost the smell of her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u29	A respectable president. So that the council has plenty of time to review financial planning that spring would not be normal for it to appear as early as spring election begins at the end of the spring, if the core of the Parliament's budget is to be won in financial planning, if it is to be transparent and resistant, which is to say that plans are going better and after the streets, as well. The manager said? Then I ask exactly what plans we have, because the ones we're going to approve during the final half-mile of the spring convention are extremely transparent. Would it not be reasonable for financial programs to appear earlier in the spring? It's very strange that we have a specific resource use fee, but the use price is reduced. I would love to pay taxes at the expense of my home. That'd be great. But for some reason, companies are always allowed to reduce all costs from, in fact, the legitimate use cost of their resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions about the timing of a financial strategy. It would be desirable for us to be earlier in time working on a financial program. Then somehow we need to figure out how to work this thing out in organizations. I think it's possible to move it closer in time. I think it would remember almost every week, and even if we did get it for a month, that would matter. I agree with what. A senator there. I would love to take up the subject of investments and its importance. It's a matter of life and death, whether we discuss a home or a company. With investments, we're living for the future, for a nation, for anyone who comes to the company, staff, and everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budget board, for excellent advance. I just want to introduce the Land Hospital matter to why. A senator. The land hospital is the most important and the largest health center in the country. This has resulted in a lot of discussions about the hospital's financial problems recently, and the problem is complex. The hospital's management board has presented a budget of operations due to a lack of operation, and one of these measures is to avoid special interest in nurses due to chronic care problems at the hospital. Now it's time to put down the concern system. This will mean that overtime will increase and will quickly become big numbers. There is a great shortage of nurses at the Land Hospital, and many departments are under way and departments need to be closed because of ignorance. Nurses have spent more than seven months in private conversation with the government. It is clear that governments must have a realistic discussion with the Land Hospital on solutions. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is now a hospital emergency, and it does not shut down even if the funds are gone: see. A senator realizes that there will be more flexibility in budgeting the land hospital in the future? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question and agree with it. We are looking at a very large and important organization that is doing this in our health system and weighing heavily on financial matters. Health and health concerns are taking on ever greater weight. Now we have built into it under the law a reserve fund, one large, a general reserve, and then a reserve for a group of lawsuits. We might need to consider whether a special contribution would be needed to a reserve into this system. I'll think about it. A senator is such a speculation. Granted, it may be uncomfortable in such a large business that we do not necessarily see the weight for the year, how much to do, how many cases come up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may take more flexibility on such a business and so much control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's reply is fine, and he agrees that there is a need to get into the situation and consider the possibility of more flexibility in the budget to the Land Hospital, perhaps through a reserve. That's a good idea. I'd like to, in the second pass, install carbon dioxide sales. Approximately 4.8 billion on a release warrant sale. Last year, sources were sold for 2.5 billion. This is a time to increase taxes on carbon emissions, i.e. The carbon bill, about 10%. It has increased by 85% since the government began. Don't be paradoxing about it. A senator, to raise the price so constantly and then continue to sell emissions as if it had become some kind of reserve that can be caught in order to meet the state's budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question of release clearance. Of course, this is a little new, a little exotic, and has something to do with the whole climate discussion. This involves something of great value. Whether there are paradoxs in taxing pollution, I think it's very sensible to look at things this way. In turn, the valuables created by pollution are expensive to us, and thus the value is increasing in emissions. The fact is, if we don't use that authority, we won't make any money. I say, let's make some of their money in the climate struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to complain about the President's conference board. There's no agreement on this discussion, but there are five groups in a government stand, and I find it unacceptable to the highest level. The president should not allow space for all of those groups to respond to history.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u36	A respectable president. I asked for an answer earlier, and I think I've been at exactly the same time as everybody else. There are five groups of government opposition, and it seems that four are allowed to arrive, depending on their size. It would be very good to know, Mr. President, whether the order is in force today and when more than four opposing sides come to the attention of the executives, it is the size of the class that controls. It would be very comfortable to know this because I thought it was queer, that it would depend on who hit the table and let him know. But it doesn't seem valid, so it would be very comfortable to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u37	V.E.G. President. Because I know it's the highest. I'd like to say that I've been offered and answered in the discussion with the rest of the story and are opposed to those members of Congress when they take their story in my section. And then, of course, I can come back in a talk, and then the others can come and answer us, so we can be sure we can sort this out, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u38	The President thanks for the inquiries. The President doesn't know any better than anyone who hits the table first or every president notices in each case. Actually, the president sitting here wasn't on the Watch then, but he hasn't had a special discussion with the discussion here, so it's just the traditional finder.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u39	Madam President. It is not my intention to go to the top of this committee but I still wanted the Council's decision to transfer the workers from the environment and transport committee to the welfare committee. We know the discussion of the harmony of the factors involved in camp loans, humanitarian activities, and then again the organizational issues that remain under the Environment and Transport Committee. There are many who look forward to taking one more step, and the factors that are now united will then be in one way or another united in the organizational affairs of the same Ministry. In that light, I thought it would be wise to save that case, at least for now, with an environmental and transport committee, and to put it just here in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u40	Madam President. The rest of the budget is the third in line for the present government, and in the past the bill is characterised by a shortsighted and smiling promise. And in the past, most reporters are highly critical of the bill, and particularly of the individuals working in welfare, labor, and schools. I'd like to say in the beginning what I've called ten bad news on the budget bill: 1st The University of Iceland, the University of Reykjavík, the Art University, and the University of Akureyri receive almost the same reality as last year. In high school, there is a direct decrease in total money between years. This is simply a fact that can be read clearly in the budget bill and to say otherwise, as I have heard members of the government do, is simply wrong. So, in my opinion, the only major interest in education is in the declarations of this government. 2. Despite the obvious need for the Land Hospital, all of us agree that there is a government that wants to take on more money from the health system. In the meantime, this is a direct quote to the director of the Land Hospital, a massive maintenance of operations at the Land Hospital, to be observed in the United States. Those are his words. We also know that the emergency department has been in a bad state and that there is still some older citizens living at the hospital because of a lack of resources. 3. The New Committee and a multideveloped promise that a dollar is not yet fully financed in the bill. Still, the poor wait for justice to begin. The prime minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said, when she was in a position of government that they should not do at all. Now it is simply running out of time. After this financial bill, there's only one financial bill left. We've heard that a lot from the counsellors: Yes, they're trying to improve the economy. They are seeking to intervene in land management problems of the Land Hospital and others. But now time is simply running out, and patience is also running out. Madam President. The elderly are given no special contribution beyond their growth in the bill, and there is still no funding for new nurses for the future. Here we need to look only at the bill and the financial plan, which covers five years. The third year in a row, nurses'funds are restricted by the State by a permanence requirement. 4. Video reimbursement is reduced by less than 30%. What kind of politics is this? This isn't the largest part of the world's budget. Here we are lowering the reimbursement that in itself makes money. This arrangement has brought in foreign assignments that have just increased tax returns. That's why I don't understand why the government of the left green, progressive, independent party is pinching this and it's not a small one, 30%. All you need to hear in the movie sector is to know that they are not happy about this. Senators in this room may not have to take my words off the record, but listen at least ... onthecharitors. This is done in total conflict with moviemakers and TVmakers in Iceland. Development funds are down, they are down to Industry Fund, People's Health, Sporphins Fund, Research Fund, Point Plans in Science and Technology, and they are even lowering the balance fund. It's the political bitch that sees so clearly in the context of this government's follow-up with the budget bill. And this isn't all. 5. We see that the government contributes a reduction to aid tools, a reduction to rehabilitation services and a decrease to protected workplaces and a reduction to work contracts. This, too, seems strange to me. Why not protect these companies from the requirements and cuts between years of age? Can we not guarantee income in such a way that we do not have to take such an operation? This is critical, Madam President. 6th The donations to the State Protection Agency, the head of the IRS, the State Reconnaissance and the general police are down. This is particularly interesting, since there are now fewer policemen in the country than ten years ago, despite the growth of tourists, the increase has been five times in ten years, and the number of foreigners has increased by several tens of thousands. Why are there 400 million common law enforcement workers being pinched? It's done. 7. This is a big point because only public employees are expected to be paid for 3%. That's what it says. The agreement with public employees is yet to be negotiated, but this is the basis for the budgetary bill, that most of which are women, most of which are public employees, should be paid for 3%. It simply means a fallout if inflation exceeds 3%. I call attention to the fact that when the bill was submitted, it was assumed that inflation would be above 3%, so that the government's motive was to contribute to the loss of public employees because she decided that the pay of public employees should be increased by 3% to 3.2% in an inflation environment. Today, predictions of inflation have fallen to 2.6%, but we will see how inflation ends. But this shows so well the whites, Madam President, what interests will be on top. 8. Then it's blessed with the fishing fees. I'd like to go over it a little bit. Fishing costs decline from year to year. It's undisputed. I just hope the senators realize what's a shrink and what's an increase. They decrease from year to year, and they are also decreasing from the time the bill was submitted just two months ago. And it's also very undisputed, let's not argue about it, for these hairs and spins don't go anywhere. What I'm trying to criticize, and we're in the United States critical, is that hunting fees are too low. I can't put it any more clearly. As I mentioned in my answer to the chairman of the legislature board, the price of fishing is legally paid to be met on the one hand by the cost of the public because of the marine road. This is what we all agree on. On the other hand, the prize of fishing is also to ensure the nation's direct and visible involvement in the survival of the fish. This appears in text from the independent sea emissary, that is to ensure the nation's direct and visible share in the survival of the fish. Now it turns out that the next year's fishing fee will be less than the expense that the Minister himself considers the taxpayers to be in the presence of government service. These costs come from the highest. Secretary of the sea. When he changed the 2018 fishing policy, the bill stated that the cost was 5.1 billion. Thus, the expense of taxpayers, our clients, does not cover because of service to the article and what if the nation that owns the resource under law gets a direct and visible share in the survival of the fish. This is critical, Madam President. This leads to the destruction of the nation's share in earnings of the fishing policy. And the prize is not a income tax, I beg the senators not to confuse it. The cost of fishing is a special price for access to one of the earth's best fishing grounds, which are legally owned by the nation, not owned by its structure. It's perfectly clear. And to draw out the absurdity in this, I did it earlier, then everybody sees how ridiculous it is that salmon fishermen will pay more for their fishing license next year than they did for their fishing. It's heading for the fishing fee to be lower than the tobacco tax, which shows the absurdity of this arrangement. The rules need to be changed, I'll figure it out, and let's just do it. Let us make sure that the nation is getting a fair share in the use of this new resource. I am well - aware that the fishing route pays various taxes. I want it to go well, and it's important to have good results, sooner or later, I'll figure it out. I know that a fishing plant pays income taxes, pay taxes, insurance bills, etc., I realize that, but it makes every rare and chemical pool in this country too. The marine exit is in a special position because it uses a resource that does not belong to it. This is a princely affair, which I think the senators have come to realize. I've just dealt with what. Chairman of the budget: Is there a decrease or an increase? I think it's such a bit of a bouncer, but I'm still going to try to be clear. By the time this government began to rule, the $112 billion fishing cover was $1.2 billion. That was presented a two - month financial bill and estimated to be 7 billion. Now, a new document comes from nowhere. Councilman, chairman of the Committee, committee opinion, and proposals are here, proposals for changing the income side of the budget: Summit costs a total of 2 billion. I think it's a big thing to talk here about whether this is a change or a reassessment. The point is, here, the fishing fees are reduced from the source of the year to the level of the year, so let's not have the word code on this subject, at least. I'd like to try to avoid it if possible. I can also quote the letter of a secretary of finance who was submitted to the government for this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u41	It's a planned income.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u42	Estimated income, okay, I don't care what you call it. The money's down, that's what I'm drawing out. You can call it anything, but the numbers are like that. It also points out that if you hadn't changed the law, the cost of fishing would have been even lower. I'd like to answer that there's a rather poor argument that fishing fee would have been even lower if changes had not been made. To correct defective systems with other faults is not particularly wise. Then it is also said, and I will answer that the price of fishing is lower now because of the law. All right. Who changed the law so that workers would pay a lower price for fishing? Yes, it was the government under Katrín's Jakobsdóttir. This was one of the first things the government did. We dealt with this here, 2018, and we fought about it. We in the United States and other panels and other sources, the All-American Union of Iceland, pointed out that by changing the law as the government was doing, you people sitting here would be paying for fishing. You can't, Madam President, give yourself special commendation by saying that if you hadn't changed the law, the fishing fee would be even lower. I don't think they're getting through. It was specifically pointed out that fishing expenditures would be reduced by your decision. They've rarely been as low since we picked them up. It's referred to the extraction link. She matters. Let's go over it a little bit. It's a sleigh in your face: Yes, but the result was so bad 2018. The rate of hunting takes into account 2018. Let's go over it a little bit. How was the survival in 2018? These are the numbers from the fishing road itself. This is what Deloitte gathered for the seabed on the fishing day the other day. In 2018, in that year, the United States of the sea - road industry expanded almost 30 billion. This year's salary was over 12 billion. If we look at how the fishing industry has developed over the past few years, the pay from 2010 has been about 100 billion. THOU, now known as SFS, has called these years of the Golden Age. Not my words, their own words. These years have been very productive to Iceland, but I think that the average public has been loaded because it's the one who owns this resource. Again, I point out that I want the sea exit to go well, but it's better than the wind. The members of the board of directors think he is. Consider one more number: The economic values of the fishing road, i.e. increase of money and money, has improved by 450 billion in a decade. The fishing fee we're arguing about, which is a price for catching from the common resource that is the basis for this profit, if it can be said, is only a small part of the profit. I think this is the big thing, and I'm not afraid to take this conversation with you. I think it's important. It is only very public to see the difference between the political parties that speak in the way that I do and those of you who speak in other ways. It's all right, people are supposed to have a choice when they get to the ballroom. I've got all those reviews from 2018 who said they were lowering the fishing fees, but I'm not gonna waste time on it. But I'd like to point out one thing. Here's a quote, Madam President, from an anonymous politician who says before elections: ▪ All I think is that these charges have been dropped too much, and I think they can do better without threatening the interests of the development of the country. I mean, just watch the money that's been getting out of large manufacturing companies in the last few years up to hundreds of millions. Do we feel that this is normal? Who do you think said that? Who said that the fishing fees should have dropped too much, and they should be raised, and this senator was wondering if there were $100 million worth of money. This was Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who now sits not on this side of the hall but on the other side. At that time, when she criticizes the fact that the fishing fee has fallen too hard, the fishing fees were higher than what it stands for today through its budget. I think it's a peculiar transition, let's put it pent. Another factor that shows how much it's all about interests: I thought it was very informative when it came to the highest level. The secretary of finance came to this hall, probably last week, with one of the government's priorities, but it was a huge challenge to eliminate the pay on large ships. Suddenly, it had become a priority. That's very interesting. Meanwhile, the public will be paid their dues, e.g. of housing, including the first buyers. With decommissioning of the plunger charge on large ships, one more time reduces the cost to the lay-off workers. I'm a little surprised at my friends in the left green having these offers over and over again. People quite see that the big marketing watch for this project will not be more obvious. Now we're going to run a government fund with a sledgehammer. It is a challenge to various aspects of the welfare service, so it is not as if there is no need for further income in the state, yet these interests will be on top. Mr. President. I may be going to stop on the fishing fees, but these are interesting facts. 9. I'm still talking about the ten bad news on the budget bill, I was at eight. Nine: We need to spend much more on the environmental issues involved. Only 2% of the budget goes into the environment, and even the forestry is reduced from year to year. On the contrary, it's peculiar, contrary to what we hear the Ministers say. I'm tired of these swollen statements by the Ministers, who may have little support in the financial bill in times of trial. Of course I know there's some positive stuff in the bill. That's 1,000 billion. I'm drawing out the negative. That's my job. I'm in a position of government and I'm trying to tell you what's better. Then it is your job to draw out what you are proud of. But there are a lot of things on the bill that I think we could have agreed to do. There are a number of things that do not have to be found in political gangs, but we in smaller sections are rarely allowed to do that. 10. There is still a special budget for hospitals, nursing institutions, and schools. Madam President. Now a recession has begun in the economy, a recession we talked about would happen in one year, but you didn't listen to it. In fact, more than in the past, we need to be careful that we're equal to society and that we're equal to one another. A congregation is not only reasonable and just; it is also good economics. He's a good economic politics. The majority of communities are rich communities. Incontrovert in Iceland is a problem, mainly in property balance. I know that income equations in Iceland are quite international, but it's the property problem I'm really worried about. I only caught him earlier. Of course, it is important that government over money is responsible at the same time as the need for public investment is met. What I've been pointing out is that the budget doesn't include the vision the Icelanders have been calling for. In view of this, the Conspiracy has produced a projection with the bill at 20 billion dollars. We make adjustments to make the budget more progressive. The suggestions, on the other hand, focus on promoting education, innovation, and climate and on protecting the well - being of the public; children's families, health care, and those who are in a palace. We'll split up these adjustments, another thing will happen to the future. That's 10 billion. We suggest that 4 billion be put in action against climate change. We propose that the university, the University of Iceland, the Art University, the University of Reykjavík, the University of Brooklyn, the University of Akureyri, and other universities, receive 2 billion. We're setting up 1 billion colleges. You remember they're having a fall from year to year. Little reduction, I realize that, but colleges don't get an increase, despite the price of the shorts. I know you can count on the rise or figure out per head, I know exactly what I'm talking about, but when we cut short high school it was said the shorts would stay. On top of that, high school has already made a big witness. It's not visible. We have a suggestion to place extra funds in the Technical Development Fund, Research Fund, and Investment Fund. We want to back up this evil government plan to cut back on filmmaking. We have a suggestion that this will not be done, and we want to put another 300 million. We also want to reimburse companies for their research and development costs. Then there's a suggestion for public transportation. First of all, social suggestions are about the increase in child reforms and the rapid prolongation of obscenities. We want to put money in the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, and you know that the situation there is going to be 4 billion degrees to the Land Hospital. They're trying to put something in the budget now that may not be directly unexpected. We're not supposed to put anything in financial contributions unless it's not what we're looking for. It's only legal. We want to place extra money in health institutions in our country, nursing homes, elderly ones, and desperate, and we want to put 400 million in law enforcement agencies, which are the same amount as expected to be cut down to law enforcement. Finally, we want to put 200 million to the U.S.A. We're not going to start adding anything to the U.S.A., which is now dealing with the longest waiting list in the history of the organization. Can we not agree on this? It's a change. This is so little for this room that we must agree on it. Every ten days another Icelander dies from drug abuse, every ten days another Icelander dies by suicide. There's a lot of evidence that we feel kind of bad in this community. We have a worldwide record of the consumption of antidepressants and anxiolytics. There are hundreds of harms for the young generation. This is not a group of political issues at all. Here, we can simply agree and take a big interest in dealing with the problems addiction is causing in the community. This modest proposal of ARA must be something that you can accept. But I remember, after working in this hall for three years with these people, that they've made every suggestion we've ever made. I hope there's not gonna be the case now, that we can only consider some of the government's adjustments, not just the United States. Other categories have practical suggestions too. How complicated is it for the board to accept suggestions that you agree in your heart and that you have spoken before 18 months after the election? I don't know what it's gonna be like because my experience is why. Every suggestion from the government side has been made when it comes to the budget. I just don't get it. These adjustments are 20 billion, but we also have ideas about how to finance them. I come to it a little later, but I can, as it were, since I am speaking of this, that of course it is the fishing fees. We have also spoken of income-related capital taxes, capital tax. We've been talking about an increase in carbon pay, a intensified tax control, tax-level eradication, and the increase in capital income taxes. Yes, these are tax increases, and I'm not afraid to talk about it, but this is the wide beds that can afford to contribute a little more. That's what we in the United States speak for. In Iceland, in all the states of the North, financial taxes are the lowest of all, and although we would raise it by 2 percent, it would still be the lowest in all the North countries. In increasing financial balance, I think that a wealth tax, a big tax, especially if it is income-related and separated from apartments or housing, is absolutely right. Since I have talked to pollution taxes and other sources of pollution, there are various ways to cover the extra expenses we address here. Madam President. It's obvious that in the United States we don't put out a complete budget bill and there's a lot of things we would have done differently. But it's at least our ideas that we are setting up in the hope that we can make these budgets a little better for the people who chose us. That's all we're trying to do. You can all have credit if you want. Madam President. I'm just like last year, and in recent years, I'm quite concerned that the terms of the budget are in little harmony with the reality. We're used to talking about this on a budget panel, which is expected to be the unchanged bank's gang, that economic growth is taking place relatively rapidly next year, expected to be similar to unemployment, an undiscovered oil price, and that is expected to be relatively low inflation. It's all the grounds I think are way too unrealistic. That's what we said last year, and it came in the day. Of course, I hope this downturn is going to be small and the crisis will be short, but we need to be realistic in our budgets and our assessment of the future. Again, the elephant is in the living room, or what we call it, a dollar. It swings like a corpio in a turbulent sea. Generally speaking, when it goes down, it usually causes an increase in in inflation. But now that relationship seems to be getting sick. That's very interesting. If the dollar drops by 10%, the price of all imported products goes up by 10%, that's the way it goes in the excel, but it hasn't happened to the level expected by the modelin, and that's very interesting. But we do not produce everything in Iceland, the nature of the case, and the exported products are a third of our total budgets, of which three fourths of them come from Europe. The swing of the crown is so powerful, directly affecting prices and inflation, growth, economic growth, private consumption, tax returns. The crown as it is is so powerfully responsible for the fluctuating environment in which we live. I am quite concerned about the increasing unemployment rate that I know everyone in this room has. It sucks to have unemployment in our society, and there's almost 7,000 people out of work. This is where we have to spin pies together, how we tackle them, and how we try to prevent long - term noncooperative work. I remember when my last left command was here, there were a number of operations to combat unemployment and prevent long - term inactivity. Schools were opened, there were all kinds of courses and measures to deal with increasing unemployment, and I urge ministers wherever they are to do fine works in this regard. Only on the property balance. Some people are not worried about him. I'm worried about him. He's evil for society, and growing property restraints is a problem. This is not just because a normal left person feels uncomfortable when a person is rich. That's not what it's about. It's about what this community's journey is and whether we have a system that specifically favors the most and more people. It's a small community we live in, and a great balance of property is bad for our small community. Of course, everyone will never be equal, I realize it completely, but when we've got property maladies in which families and individuals have billions, even tens of millions, why not stop and wonder? It is a debate that every Western nation, and in fact, most nations in the world, are dealing with property inequities, a contribution to the tax system. Who will pay taxes and who will not? Who are doing more than others? It's striking that Iceland is the longest in all of the northern countries on Oxfam's list when it comes to anti-efficiency measures. It is striking that 1% of the population has more pure possessions, i.e. I mean, I got my own money, but 80 percent. And 5% of the population owns 41% of all clean possessions. What's the development? The 2010 trend is that the wealthiest of the richest 0.1%, the richest families in the country, has increased by less than 100 billion or by 68%. I may be losing you with all these numbers, but everything made the richest one percent of all the budget money. If we grow together and take the richest 5%, they took over half of all the money we had. One more number, I may have lost you by now, but 43% of new wealth since 2010 has ended in the richest 10% of the population. I'm both saying that the property balance is great in Iceland. It is large in the North countries, perhaps surprising because countries in the North have prided themselves on being equal communities. In the North, there is a considerable balance, an abundance of property. He's, for example. More in Sweden than in Iceland, just in comparison and knowledge. This new wealth is also a little underestimated by the rich. Why? That is according to tax returns because the rich are best stocked and not registered to market prices, they are registered to their names. Anyone observing stock markets knows that there may be sky between the value of stock and market prices. And we may not have full perspective on where all the wealth of the rich is, as illustrated. This is the concern, the balance of property, that we need to consider. Only government employees. I think we're supposed to talk more about the value of public service here and how important it is to have powerful government employees, teachers, physical therapists, nurses, doctors, cops. These are the people who are supporting the welfare system, the school system, and the common infrastructure that we are always talking about. We can't leave these groups behind, but it felt like the message in the budget bill when they expected a 3% raise in 3.2% of inflation. This is the key that has now fallen. We saw this in BHM and BSRB reviews about this blessed bill, they protested in a powerful way that masquerade. I've been discussing this before from this platform, but this happens at the same time, and we see extraordinary increases in government managers. In two years, some have increased by 30,480%. Some of these remunerations have increased the entire teacher's salary per month during the last rise. I know that the remuneration system has been changed by a host and such, but the fact that the pay system has now entered the Ministry has not stopped these raises. The new pay system that went into effect during the New Year's Day meant that two of the three heads of state increased pay up to 27% in that cycle in some cases. How is it, Madam President, that governments are uplifting the government's salary of 30-80% at the same time as teachers, medical staff, firemen, medical personnel, nurses, midwives, police officers, customs guards, and coaches are expected to receive 3%? Recently, the government's position on these key classes is well described by the U.S. government. In fact, the president of BSRB, with the permission of a president, said: "The business has not been in the collective agreement. That's a big word from the Chairman of the BSRB. BSBA has over 3 tens of thousands of public employees, of whom there are two thirds of whom are women. BSRB is not only the largest international organisation of public workers but also the largest labor union of women in this country. And that's what the chairman of this big relationship says. The government hasn't been in a collective agreement. For the disability, I'm going to share with you one direct quote: ▪ All the lawsuits that concern disabled people and micro-terrestrials are starving. This is a direct quote in the review of the Corporate Community on the Government's budget. Again, I repeat. I don't need to be listened to by the members of the statesmen, a member of the Continental Assembly, but take note of the Quantum Coalition. Listen to ASI or BSRB or BHM. These too are your clients, including your voters. Theoreticians are a group who have been neglected for far too long in Iceland. It's over 20,000 people. It's the group we're deciding on. The Corporate Community now aims for a record of 90,000 dollars. in terms of minimum wage, microenergy pension. That's more than a million a year. What is that reasonableness? There is no one who chooses to be an invalid. 70% of the population is under 300 thousand. People have to live on a micro-energy pension that we decide. Can't we at least... did he have the minimum wage? It's heading for 90,000 bucks. will be over a month. We can do better for this group of people we talk about here so regularly. I've pointed out some business routes. I know this has to be financed. That's why I'm yelling about fishing fees, capital taxes, money taxes, and carbon bills because I want my income from there to meet the rest of this group. The money's ready. They don't grow on trees. They will be made with the people and businesses of the country. We need courage to get our money in a reasonable way. I'm not talking about adding spells to interclasses and ordinary people living in one of the most expensive European countries. I am just trying to set aside a group that can do more. I'm not talking for a total tax increase, just not at all. It may not take that much of anything to do with it. The 20 billion suggested by the United States, we have 1,000 billion bill and 20 billion would go pretty far to correct and would not cause anyone to fall. The financial concern of the older citizens and the community of welfare services has been expressed by reviews, and I especially want to flaunt it, since nursing homes in the country are expected to be extremely heavy. I think all members of Congress should consider that. Actually, it's not a new problem, and I'm not blaming this government for that. All we have to do is round up the nursing homes' financial problems. We get this on a table every year. I'm not presenting an easy solution to something, all I know is that a lot of senior citizens will double over 25 years, so the problem is certainly not going to go away from us. But we need to think about these matters together. They're adding child support here, and I'm glad to hear it, but I'm sure I'll remind you of it. The members of the board have made three or four recommendations from the United States on child reform. This increase in child reform is due to the demands of the labour market members in the biographies. The increase is 0.1% of the budget, and the government feels that it is in good place, but child - rearing needs to be done much better. Here, perhaps, ideas in flight, you may remember that, especially by independents, I think, often approaching the case, so child support should be some kind of poverty strength, part of a total safety network. That's not how I approach it. We're supposed to put handsome in child support. We are to help children during this marked period of their lives when they have young children, and the cost remains. This would make life easier. There's 11 billion or so in child support, there's not even a big number in this context. We can see that one-quarter is lost from the children's reform system because of the damages. We have a decrease in income and property that have been sitting around for a long time, but now it's only being improved, and I'm celebrating it. But better, if it's enough. It was once said that there were 6,000 children here who lived with a lack in our rich society. That's not a low number. We are the 10th or 11th richest nation in the world, and here we can do better. At the same time, we've been in the United States, and more people have pointed to the growth reform system that has almost disappeared. It's going to cost over 3 billion. The last time the United States was in a government with left greens, 16 billion were put in interest of interest, if I calculated it. Half of it has died of the growth reform system because the damages have been so cruel that the growth system is just gone. But interest rates are important for people who have the lowest income. I remember that in the left command that was dealing with a historical angle, and a what. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir was the minister of finance, was the ideologies, and the emphasis was to put a lot on child reforms and compensations. Half the amount of money paid most was paying for housing expenses. The union spent 100 billion dollars. as well as left green, when left men, in growth reforms and child support during the term. Now I'm trying to get the left green with me to do a little better and I know they want it and they would have done better if they had worked with us in the government. But they are responsible for this government, so they completely endure that I only criticize them. Birth wormof, they're adding one month to it. But there's something else I just want to draw attention to, that's birth strength. I know there's been a decrease in his applications, but he's a disgraced low. I don't quite remember, $75,000, something like that. These are mostly women who are out of work markets, women and men, or students. It's just about school. The government Treaty has a very large promise that the college level funding will reach first the OECD target and then the national average. At the top. Ministers have handled these numbers only, and I don't think we've agreed yet. I'm an ally. Secretary of education in getting more money for college. It has this remarkable promise in a government contract, and I still don't think it's reaching out despite the increase to the university. I know all about this, and that sort of thing, but if we look at the financial program, it looks like college, without LIN, is going to get the same thing now as after four years. It doesn't rhyme with reaching the Northern border. I'm not gonna start arguing about this, I just think we need to do better, and we haven't made it. I think even the Minister of Education sees it. We haven't reached the OECD target or the Northern Points yet, we're still close. The University of Iceland's Biography made comments on contributions to the competitive Science and Technology Council. I took care of only a few fundes that receive a requirement or a cut-off from year to year. I know there's 50 million in the Research Fund, it's tiny, it's 3 billion or whatever. We need to take a closer look at the funds, whether it's the Weld, the Spring Fund, the Research Fund, the Mark Plan, or the names of all these funds. I'm worried about college. I'm not gonna waste my time on it, I don't see any big offense there. The Teacher Union has previously noted that high school has not been able to recover from long - term and serious financial resources. I put together which secondary schools are having a real depression between years in the bill. The high school I saw in the next year, which I saw less than this year: high school in Reykjavík, the High School of the Railroad, the University of Austria, the School of Education in Kpavogi, the School of Education at the Haggls, the School of Education in Lake Laugar, the Flensburg, the National High School of Education, the School of Education in the East, the School of Labor at Akureyri, the High School of Education in Eastern Strategists, and the High school in Mofellsville. This decrease may be even greater when considering their paid rent. I've only heard a few colleges saying - we just need to look at it a little bit better - that the money that runs to high school goes to them and then comes back for paid rent. I don't really know this conversation, and I'm such a mess because it's something to look at. Madam President. At the beginning, I expressed deep concern for this massive surgery in filmmaking. This is a substantial amount of money for this sector. It's supposed to cut less than 30%. This fact has been presented to serious comments by the Society of industry and the European Film Manufacturers. I have great faith in movies and television productions, and every dollar the government puts in this sector gives him a lot of money back. There's been assessments, it's only economics, etc. We're getting more work to do with this support system. That's why we shouldn't draw back, but we should put more in. I'd like to remind you that I, along with the United States, suggested a change in the motion that we would place extra money on a so-called TV fund, of course, that proposal was made by all VG members, advance, and the Independence Party. This is something we need to examine. Health problems still exist. LSH is headed for 4 billion in total. I recall that when we discussed a financial program, there was a review from the Land Hospital that thought he needed 87 billion for the next five years. I remember only on the committee, 87 billion. This was a review of a financial program presented two years ago by the Land Hospital. I'm not saying money solves all the problems. But it is so obvious that the National Hospital, the final center of the Icelandic medical system, needs more money. It was the entire election of 2017. The people wanted to emphasize this. I know it's possible for ministers and senators to say, "Yes, we've added. But I'm afraid this isn't good enough. The director of the Land Hospital has talked about extensive maintenance operations, and we are still hearing about the emergency crisis, and for a time there were another hundred senior citizens living there, etc. I don't agree with anyone who says the Landspians are dealing with some government or organizational problem. I think that the Landspians did a great job of expanding a difficult financial situation in an environment where they do not have the demand for their services. I'd like to commend the president of the Land Hospital rather than the rest. We see that health institutions in the country also call for increased financial support. I think they've called after 800,900 million at a meeting with us, and they're nowhere to see this one. If medical institutions in the country, hospital services there, they don't reach out for what they're supposed to be doing, they'll land at the Land Hospital. The problems do not disappear, people get sick, get hurt, and get old from the law. I know that there may never be enough money on health matters, I realize that, but we can put more on them with the income I've been describing here. Transport, there are other senators better than I do in them. But I'm just going to remind you of the need in many parts of the country. I was in charge of law enforcement earlier, and it seemed odd to me that there would be a special cuts for law enforcement. We can't confuse these numbers. I know there's money here for state police or helicopters or anything like that, but if you look at law enforcement, there's a drop of 400 million. Mr. President. The environments are, as I could before, the affairs of the matter. We've had a lot of talk about climate plans and a lot of press conferences on how great we are in the environment. We're not. We see that the real increase in environmental issues is about a billion. That all sounds okay with a range of 20, which 60% of them are due to the increase in recycling paid by the public. That's interesting. If you go a little deeper than the phrase, you can see this, 60% of the real growth, the increase in the net, is recycling. I'm not minimizing it, but it's interesting, and maybe contrary to what the public thinks. The rate of carbon is even lower than in the case of the current government. The restoration government and the Bears of the Future and Independence Party were going to raise the carbon account even more, and it's odd that a government brought from the left green has not relied on at least to raise the value of carbon into what a restoration and a bright future would like. I would especially like to remind you that we have to watch the key surveillance agencies in this country. There's no problem with the pros. That's not how I approach it. Strong monitoring agencies can increase the effectiveness of society. Contestance is important to ensure competition. It isn't, as I often feel, perhaps from this room or even outside him, a burdensome stall. Not at all. The competitiveness of the Governing Body contributes to an increase in competitiveness, efficiency, and benefit of consumers. We live in a small economy where the competition market is in key markets, and that's why it's important to the League. I hope there's some idea of crowding around that doesn't work out. Then we have other important monitoring agencies; tax research directors, Fish Labs, EEA and Organizational Institutes, etc. We need to make sure that they receive the needed funds to do their job well but also to be able to do their job quickly. Separation is what professional life has been complaining about. It should be good, especially SMEs, to have fast and medium-sized surveillance institutions. No space science in my opinion. Developmental contributions were to be cut down about 300 million, but the majority of the committee decides to back it up, which is a cause of joy. Of course, there are positive things the committee does, and it may be their job to draw them out. But this is important, and we need to put more into development. Again, I remind you that we are the tenth richest nation in the world, and I also remind you that Iceland accepted support until 1976. It has not been so long since we were in the position to accept assistance from evolution. I think it's good for us to remember that. I also remind you that when this broke down ten years ago, we were helped by evolution, or what we could call it, we had to accept international assistance from the World Bank along with other nations when we were in serious trouble. Now we can straighten out the cow and do more. No one can slack off on this. We are one of mankind, and it is not long since we needed such help. Only on the side of the income. Well, I've talked about it a little bit, and I'm not going to repeat my points about the fishing policy, but only about the capital tax. We see that it has returned less in the Kingdom box than has been expected. I know it's a swinging tax base and it depends on the economy. But to show how well the capital tax applies to those with the highest income, I remind them that only 2% of families paid capital taxes for the stock market. I'm reminded that the biggest part of all doesn't pay capital taxes because of the payoff target. It was set off a vacation goal. People can make money without paying money taxes. That's what makes the taxes. Free income target is not particularly old, but it was just the left control that installed it. An increase in capital tax will only reach the rich because we have a financiermark, if you worry about it, and we could even raise it. It is also the bank tax, but it seems to be a peculiar priority to start lowering it by 8 billion. I know it's a strange tax, he's taxing debts and other things, and he's going to run his way to the end, but I'm wondering: Is this the right time to turn down the bank tax? There's a number of key elements involved in the welfare and school affairs, and I can think of other things in this room that we could use this 8 billion in, at least At this point. The reduction in the insurance fee the government has spoken of is timely, and we have talked about it. Logi Einar Einarsson, chairman of the United Nations, has proposed a matter of Congress that is about to improve the interests of SMEs, including SMEs. by examining this blessed insurance fee. And to see something positive, I think I'm positive to add my third tax step. But better, if it's enough. ASI and others have criticized the fact that this is happening late in time and so on. I'll leave them to criticism, but it's okay to keep that in mind. I also remind you of the normal demands that the host tax be passed to them. I think most groups have concluded this at their national meetings. The government groups now had the opportunity to support the motion that we suggested and, of course, killed it. The rest of the pieces killed it without losing their minds. There are several types of income that we can look at. Finally, I know that I've said that several times, on the budget bill, I'm authorized to sell the banks to private people. There has been talk of the risks of government and, as a result, taxpayers involved in financial contributions. I want to turn this around a little bit. I want a body of Congress and the public to consider the risks of the public when the banks are owned by private citizens. It took only four years for a private banking system to submerge here, a global collapse in that scale, if taken together, to have been the fourth major failure in American history. The steps certainly scare us here. This is where we need to be careful. Of course, privates will always play a role in a financial market, but I wonder if we shouldn't be careful, if it's not all right for the State to own these two banks for a time at least Meanwhile, we have the opportunity to rethink our financial system. paritaprevir For example, the daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir has often pointed out some practical ways to achieve new banking systems and financial systems that serve consumer interests. It has also pointed out that banking systems and financial systems may be far more like host systems than anything else. This isn't like any other business, so to speak, especially because if it goes ill, we're going to soup with it. It's been 11 years since we did it. Madam President. I see my time is running out. I see there are a lot of things on this bill that could be done better. The Company offers senators the opportunity to add a little more to the bill without losing control of responsible government matters and so on. These are modest suggestions. We also have ideas about how to earn money that could be guaranteed for the 3rd. if it is, because we still leave a set group behind; children, middle and low-temperatures, micro-elderly, school-schoolers, and, in fact, a large part of the public is mistrusted by this bill. I know well that there is not everything that can be done for everyone, but there certainly is more to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u43	President wants to point them out. The senator says he's not a lady, at least Not yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Basically, I disagree with his point of view, but some of the things he says here, I'll agree completely. He first mentioned our grand assignment, which he handled well in his talk, on the issues and financial matters of a nursing home. As he listed, there is no new problem, and in some way we need to respond. On the other hand, what I thought was interesting when I listened to a talk. A senator was what he did not discuss. I felt unworthy, if I may say so, Mr. President, that he did not discuss how this financial bill and the government policy supports the economic rhythms we have had to deal with for a while. But basically, I disagree. A member of the council, as he starts with his committee's opinion and speech, that this is the path of broken promises, as it were. I'm pointing out what. A senator should read a fine summary on page 20. 8 of the body I referred to in my previous answer to what I did. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u45	Mr. President. Yes, I see here a broken promise. First of all, it's high school, if I just go on a team for a team. The maintenance schools were given a promise of an injection but have a decrease from year to year. It was promised that in 2020, next year, the university would gain funding on a pair of northern countries. The quality of life has been promised, and especially by a half - rater. A senator, the Independence Party. In the ensuing of the last election, the campaign hall of Independence was at 100 billion dollars. Over here and there. At the same time we'll see, and I don't necessarily have to be quoted, that the Landspians are heading to a corner, and they call for more money. The Department of Destiny says all the lawsuits are at your watch. It's not being put on the climate issues you say at press conferences. The innovations, at least certain funds under that category, have a shrink. That's how you could count it for a long time. My speech was to highlight the more favorable features, but I know that there are some things you can be happy about. But better, if it's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u46	Mr. President. I just draw out, in the chart on page 5. 8 of the Committee's Committees, the major changes since that government began its operation. Wait a minute. A senator is looking to the time period at all, not just this financial bill when we discuss the development of budgets. He would be much more critical of our being even too much. There are real - life excerpts to many lawsuits. I'm not going to tell you why. A member of the council, he specifically mentions the issues of those who are desperate and disabled, such as the U.S.A. 14 billion increases during this period. We're confirming the tax reductions in the budget bill that will be useful to the threat of income. The Senator didn't say anything about it. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator in his opinion, as he is drawing ashore from previous talks about other financial bills and financial programs, where he talks about taxes in travel services, however, he still insists on not paying for travel services. Then I'd like to ask who. A member of Parliament: What's the cost, and how much?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u47	Mr. President. There was one promise I forgot earlier, and it's an old cent against a dollar's impairment, just to be held in the interest of it. That promise is not being fulfilled; despite repeated promises, it is not being removed. Regarding the income of foreign tourists: I know that tourism is dealing with problems now, and perhaps this is not a time to increase taxation in that service, not at all. We need to make a very good choice of timing. Similarly, if we are to take that step, we need to give the article a time of adjustment. This is an article in which the book is written far ahead and so on. I remind you, on the budget bill as it looked two months ago, it was an idea. To increase the income of foreign tourists by 2.5 billion. That bill went through a council party or two. A senator only two months ago. I know that proposal has been drawn back, I'll figure it out. In the long run, however, I think there is a reasonable and just way to increase the income of foreign tourists. We have become a tourist nation, we live in a travel service, and we see that according to this bill, there are some ideas that perhaps it is time to increase this income in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I was close to what I could do. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson and referred to a table in the committee list of parts on page 24. 8. I can't make it in one minute over all the other teams. A member of the congregation studied in his talk, but of course, there are many things that could be discussed here. The table shows that there is an actual increase in all joints during the course of the year. A senator listed. And, yes, there's a real increase from 2017 to high school, and then we've cut him short like a whale. A senator came in. But I'd like to leave a question, because of it. A senator introduced factors to economic management. I came into my speech on the opinions of the International Bank of Credits, on the financial property of Iceland's Secret Bank, where the economy is commended and the aspects of the state's budget. I'd like a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u49	Mr. President. Let's take a look at the economy. What were we talking about yesterday? We were talking about funding, assuming that in the 2019 budget, there would have been some leftovers on the government budget of 30 billion. That was your plan, 30 billion plus 2019. Now the swing is down to 15 billion in the minus. The swing is close to 44 billion. I don't know what a good economy it is to be on a plan like this. I know there's a lot out there outside your board. We'll see that the fur broke. We have a visual of Baltrexit in progress, etc. But economic control isn't something I'd compliment you on. I don't like the economy. I think it's based on a weak foundation, the assumptions you're based on, and the figures, whether on budget or budget, may not seem to be in harmony with a reasonable, realistic structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. He said that he did not agree with the view of the International Cash Fund, which shows that the government's economic responses were about to be right and quick. Moody's has increased Iceland's credit ratings, including Because of the increased resistance to the economy, which increases the quality of the economy to the events, saying that the quality of the budget is the strength of the economy today and the right response in those areas. What causes that? So does the Council of Money. What causes it to slow down. A senator cannot agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u51	Mr. President. I feel that the economy is lacking when its standards fail from year to year. I feel that the economy is lacking when certain groups are deliberately leaving behind. I feel that the economy is lacking when it is handled directly for the loss of jaws in a public labour market. I think it's part of the economy. I'm not going to point out that everything here is impossible, of course not, and maybe there's something in the criticism that the World Bank and other people have put out, well and well. But there are some things that you might do better. I find that economic management is not particularly good when the cent's gang drops by 10% between years or when unemployment rises in the way it is doing. I know that much is not at all your responsibility, such as the Fall of WOW and any other, but as I said before, economic management is not something you should boast specifically of, though there is much positive. [[The president calls.]] There are a number of things that we need. A senator can agree that in the wide sense of that word, he can improve his economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u52	Mr. President. In less than an hour's talk, you have to sail off when you get a minute to answer. But I would like to start by saying that I disagree that the economy is not being properly used. I don't think so. The reality is ignored, and I believe it is done in a reasonable way. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator in the matter of micro-energy pensioners. The total income of the microenergy donor has increased by an average of 11% since 2017. I agree that there's no films to look at, but I'd like to put one question to the question. A member of the council because he spoke of the special supply, a tremendously important team of reforms, set up by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in his day as prime minister. Today, 2.9 billion were put to relieve it, but this is exactly the one that has improved the most. Wants to play. A senator that will fall from the most important relief party that ensures the lowest possible benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u53	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is considerably better off than I am in this case, and I am not going to belittle it at all. What I was trying to shed light on, however, is that we've all spoken from this platform of talk to dissuade a dollar from a dollar to a dollar impairment, that they work against the interests of disability. This is what the Qualification Community and Despair themselves have emphasized. I want to make their suggestions my proposals, and I'm not going to pretend to know better than they do. I don't like it when the Corporate Community writes about the bill. Senator: All the cases involving disabled persons and micro-organists are starving. I feel uncomfortable when it's supposed to be about 90,000 k. The difference between micro-energy pension and minimum wage. I also find it very uncomfortable when you suggest that you reduce money to auxiliary equipment, rehabilitation services, protected workplaces, micro-employers contracts, etc. I'm not gonna pretend I know more than what. A senator on individual relief parties, I just want to listen to the Quantum Community, and they're not cool with this bill at all, and that knows why. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u54	Mr. President. I was at a conference this morning held by an insurance agency, and in the last 20 years, Sigríður Lillý Baldursdóttir considered the changes in the microenergy pension system. It shows that some groups are much closer to the minimum in a dollar of more than 300,000 dollars, but it is a fact that the percentage of microenergy donors has been left behind, and that is exactly the group for which the special extensions have been most important. That's why I'm thinking about it when we put money in our priorities. Now the importance has been reduced, and I'd like to think that I've never spoken of saying that I've never had a decrease in the percentage of the improvement rate to 0. I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be in the system, but we need to get some normal context. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you again. A senator: Do we not have to look at those who have the lowest benefits but take into account that the group is varied and that, fortunately, some are in a better place than others? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u55	Mr. President. Yes, I agree that we need to try to focus on the lowest earner. But I remind you that 70% of the population earns less than 300,000 dollars. for tax. So the body of the group is down there on the floor. 70% has less than 300,000 k. and about half of the population have less than 220,000 incomes. for tax. These figures may have gone up a little bit since last year, but they've been on notice. Many cripples are really bad when it comes to choice issues. We also see that in the bill only a 3.5% increase in micro-organization is expected, which is less than an increase in pay number. We have also identified this. Why does that make sense? A senator and her company will be left when an additional document was placed in the lifetime agreements? Why are poorer and older citizens not given the increase that other groups received on April 1? Why are they being left behind? [[The president calls.]] It would've been traced to the budget, but it's not. Parliamentaries have not been ready for this, and this is critical. But I hope we can go along to improve this system considerably from now on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u56	Mr. President. Hv. In his speech, a senator made it clear that he disagrees with the World Bank's World Bank on the Economics of Iceland, the recently published reports. An unprecedented fall in debt, an incredible era we've had but what. A senator speaks of being shortsighted in terms of money, and I especially noticed it. In my opinion, no one has ever been as powerful as a good economy in Iceland. Historically, if we look back at the data decades in advance, that's the way it is. I talked about taxes that could be made, and I missed until the end of the travel service. What are some ideas? A senator on taxation in travel service? How much tax would he like to contribute to the tourism service?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u57	Mr. President. With regard to travel, I wasn't, unlike what happened. A senator, suggesting to raise taxes on it by 2.5 billion. It was on the budget bill why. A senator who was submitted two months ago. I know it's been pulled back, but the bill isn't particularly old, and it was expected to be 2.5 billion. I wasn't suggesting it. In the long run, we need to take that discussion, and we have, in the past, found a righteous way to increase the income of foreign tourists. I realize completely that now may not be the right time, but at some point, we need to take the discussion because foreign tourists use a common resource, just as the developers use a common resource. Foreign tourists take advantage of the common resource of nature and human life and culture. We need to find some ways to increase our income from that sector. Surely we can find ways that the article itself can endure and accept. Of course, this income would take on structures and investments that are of least benefit to the article itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u58	President. In fact, the majority of legal committees show that taxes are not being raised, there are not ideas in the available suggestions. I just wanted to be optimistic, and the government's money to ask me, Has it been? So a senator said he saw it a year ago, when we talked about budgeting for 2019, that there'd be a fluke in here and that WOWair would fall? He also talks about the gangs of the crown, the price of oil, and such things, but no one on the budget or in the council says that he can say he can say he can be an oiler or a gang. Counts 'em out. A senator is capable of predicting that in a sense? But the big thing is, the who. A senator for the fall of WOW air and a hairy failure, since he is criticizing the greater part for not providing for his prognostication? Otherwise, it's incredibly well done, that's only the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u59	Mr. President. No, I didn't see for the fall of WOW ar or a hairy failure, I specifically said that. I wasn't supposed to do it. Senators would have anticipated that. However, what may be the result? A senator well read my talks from last year when I warned specifically that the basis for the budget was too optimistic. I called it wishful thinking. It was unrealistic. [[Up front.]] It is written what I said about the basis for financial planning and budget being too optimistic. [[Up front.]] But I'll say what, too. A senator said that it was not just I who pointed out it, that other government officials did. It also did the workforce, business council, Iceland's Common Association, the workforce team. All the members pointed out that the basis for the 2019 budget was unrealistic, and it came in the day. Hv. A senator doesn't necessarily have to listen to me, but at least he can. Listen to the experts who all said the same thing: When it comes to economic management and plan, the state of the Independence Party, led by Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, gets a complete drop score. [[Foreground on: Never better.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u60	A respectable president. I come up here because I want to point. The U.S. Congress says that this is a recipe for two very boring days ahead. The fact that we make it that there's a double speech period when we discuss the budget bill and that committee officials can hold one hourly speeches I think that is something that nobody in this hall is interested in, let alone out there, with all due respect for what's happened. Congress members on the budget board. I know you've done a lot of work on this great committee opinion, but they're already in print, and I have to say, I don't feel that I'm sorry that I didn't make a deal of this conversation a little bit more quick and fun, and I don't doubt that there's any more seats in the room and maybe even share in the discussion. [[Up front.]] Now I think 16 people are on the roster list, and I don't know when anyone who wants to register outside of it. I'd like to direct it to what it is. Congress officials say we may hold a little shorter talks, come up more, say a few words, and have a bit of curly and fun shapes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u61	Mr. President. I heard why. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir spoke here, heard her through the screen in the Grouproom of the United States, and I became very concerned. [[It needs to be...]] Could it be that I heard correctly? That's what I'm talking about. A senator complaining about a democratic debate on the budget bill, the top policy of the government? That is truly news, Mr. President. I encourage all members of the Parliament, whether in command or in opposition, to take advantage of the space they have to discuss the government's budget, its main policy. I'm not sorry about that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u62	A respectable president. The senator here does not balk at discussing one of the finest documents and budgets of the next year, nor did he hesitate to discuss financial policies or the government's financial plans. Whatever it is. A senator was first to point out that this discussion could be conducted with a much more interesting and vivid nature, since it is only a long time to listen to hourly talks, even when the work is behind them is good and that all that is presented in the committee's opinion may be of good interest. Most people should be able to make their point in 20 minutes, as I think they'll do in every nation council around us, where the speeches are all shorter, and people will join and respond. We could have a busy and interesting discussion. But this is in my mind a recipe for a rather boring assembly day, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u63	The President's just having a lot of fun here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u64	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. It is no pity to sit under the discussion of the budget. But I can agree too with what. Haraldsdóttir That perhaps it is time, Mr. President, and perhaps all over the United States, to wonder if the form of the discussion could be otherwise. However, it is indeed a joy to be allowed to participate in a discussion of the budget, the principal policy of each government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u65	Mr. President. I felt compelled to come up here in the platform because I was likely the only senator who's been giving an hour's talk. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm sorry to hear that. A senator thought it was boring, but I didn't think it was boring, and I thought it was going on pretty fast. [[It's been a lot of fun.]] I'm not a spokesman for long discussions, and I've never been, and I'm prepared to think how the exchange can be more vivid in this room. But when it comes to the law, it makes me feel totally normal. This is a matter of principle and it was seen very well, e.g. In reply, there were most important members of the board of directors who opposed me, since this is simply where we differed. Of course, I can say that there's a lot in this council hall that could be much more lively than I think the budget till now was extremely good, even if I say so myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u66	President wants to point them out. Congress officials agree that no other arrangement was reached, and this is a trial. Of course, you can enjoy yourself and have lively discussions, that is all that is good to say. The president himself thinks everything is really fun since he was here for the spring, all night long. All I ask is what? Senators make good use of their time. It is not required to make full use of it, but it is possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u67	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the talk I have here, one hour, and try to make good use of it. I saw the highest. The president looked especially at me when he mentioned that men were not obliged to speak for an hour. I will try to make good use of that time and may not say that there will be some entertainment, but I will try to be perturbably involved in the issues of this important financial bill of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. In recent years, public economic plans have been based on excessive optimistic assumptions about economic developments, and the temporary increase in income has been relied on on intensification. There has been little effort to ensure that plans did not make enough money to finance needed expenses. The Environment Directors of the bill are set up on Iceland's Habitat project since October. However, that forecast changed somewhat from June onward. The estimate shows that there is greater uncertainty about the economic outlook in this country that is reflected in plans and projections for economic growth. After a long economic development, Iceland's Haggis assumes almost no economy this year than that he will be back next year and will be about 1.7%. Propaganda is 0.9% lower than previous predictions. Certainly a man, Mr. President, hopes that this will work, but there are a lot of uncertainty in this, especially international uncertainty issues such as developments in our business countries, oil prices and the position of the currency, etc., so the forecast may not come true. Of course, we hope that this will happen and that economic growth will take place in a new year. The financial and economic secretary's letter to the financier, dated November 7th, shows that the bill was updated by data submitted since the protocol was completed in June. According to the motion of a greater part of the budget, the state funds will be expelled at about 11 billion dollars. Do it now. Similarly, by 2020 the government's income decreases by 10.6 billion dollars. Critically, the government is going to finance the budget for the fiscal bill because of changes in economic forecasts, as well as changes made by the government groups at 2 arr., by selling carbon dioxide emissions sources, at least a quarter of the budget. 4.8 billion. It should be noted that during the last year, emissions were sold for about 30 years. 2.5 billion bucks. There are many indications that in the future the government will have to buy these quotas back at a much higher price, since Iceland does not seem likely to be able to stay within its releases. The government has to argue that this arrangement is reasonable for the future before any financial process is passed or that it simply retracts this proposal. It also focuses on the huge increase in carbon pay paid by the common people, particularly on the region. I'll take a closer look at that later. In addition, it is critical that the government is going to take on its own money of Icelandic students at a rate of 4.2 billion. to meet changes in the income side of the state fund because of changes in economic forecasts. In other words, the loan fund of Icelandic students is to be paid up a portion of the balance of government funds. It would have been a story to the next town at some point. Even if the position of the fund is good, this arrangement is unwise now that governments plan to change the loan system. Forethought changes in which 30% of the loan is made in the form of a scholarship will mean a greater demand for loans. In addition, the above letter states that fishing costs are due to a decrease of 2.1 billion dollars. in the bill on the basis of evidence of the expected calculation of fishing bills in the next year of fishing, taking into account the large investments of the fishing industry. Of course, we support the central category of investments, the vital factor, and many of the secondary work of fishing. However, the question can be asked, " Why is this issue so late?'and whether there is evidence of the expected calculation, as mentioned, that the calculation is not complete and not settled, or that there is generally enough evidence to be considered sufficient support in a case like this. On the part of Iceland's Penitentiary Bank, a growing decision in November stated that economic developments may look too optimistic, especially because of the uncertainty of international economic issues, as mentioned at the outset. It is important that current government policy takes into account the realistic reasons for economic progress. Of the OECD, it has been noted that public investments need to be larger in this country and that the next action of the next one is primarily aimed at reducing the impact of subtraction. When the economy, as it has been, slows down, it is urgent that governments take appropriate action. It shows that there is an important need to reinvent and increase investments in the interior. A lot of work is being done, e.g. for example, in transportation and health care. The central category feels that the status and survival of the state funds in the bill should be more addressed based on where we are moving. In addition, we could discuss the contribution of the cash on the market to national production next year. Who will be, for example. the effects of tax doctors and investments when it comes to national production? Considering the budget bill, you can see that there is no more to be expected in 2020. On the contrary, the state's funds will be slided, reflecting the fact that the current economic situation is changing. It is important in times of uncertainty that the state's debt level is good and that it is safe to commend the government for continuing to pay off debt. This is vital and proves to be successful in the down cycle that is now ahead. Government emphasis on subsidies over the past few years will prove to be an important and positive provision. This situation enables people to cope with economic uncertainty. Of course, the development of the nation's exports is of vital importance. In recent years, the nation has had the rise in tourism, the article has become a burden on the commercial life of the people of the land, and the important source of currency. There is an obvious trend in travel services among the main uncertainty factors of the budget. The prospects for travel have a significant impact on the economic leaders of the bill. It is noteworthy, then, that contributions to tourism on the bill decrease to an absolute value of 292 billion. K., i.e. 12.8% from the 2019 budget. According to Iceland's Hospital Bank, inflation has been around 3% since spring, but in October it was 2.8%. However, underlying inflation has been more persistent. That the bank's judgment is expected to cut faster than was predicted in August and will reach its goal at the end of this year. It is estimated that government companies and funds in Period B along with Civilization will pay 91.3 billion dollars. In the payments next year. That's 45.6 billion. and about doubled from the estimated 2019 cities. Again, the biggest direct commitment of the state's non-funded Penitentiary due to the B-institution Department of Pension Services, ISR. Nurses' NlR and Pension Fund ensures that funds are more valuable than industry payers and employers pay in their savings at any given time. The differences between acquired rights and holdings of the B-VlR are guaranteed by the back responsible state funds and by the LSR with responsible state funds and other remunerations. In the coming decades, responsible caregivers will have to contribute these funds as the Department of Pension Act allows to ensure that the funds can be paid for a pension. Important attention is given so that contributions from the fund are shown to keep balance. The central category emphasizes that governments provide the basis for a powerful career, prosperity, and general prosperity. The government's tax policy is to include the incentive to increase the number of workers and to improve its terms and to provide conditions for innovation and renewal of tools and equipment and investments in the economy. In this regard, the Central Party places great emphasis on simplifying the governance system and relieving the public of the industry and the homes of the people. Normal efficiency and management must be required for all government activities. On page 18. 3 The committee's opinion provides an overview of the changes made by the Central Party to the bill. The suggestions are complete, and they do not contribute to the interest of government funds. I'll get in touch with these suggestions below, but I'm going to take the next step to the section of the Committee that bears the headline Prosperation - not to be added to the state plans and regulations. No more government gains, no more ◯ added to the state plans and regulations. Mr. President. Education and effectiveness should always be carried out in the treatment of public funds. The financial bill gives evidence that the government's list of projects is not the top priority. There goes the leading member of the Independence Party, which has regularly cried out loud for elections away in the first place. Then, when the pack reaches power, the stall continues to grow. ▪ We need to clean up our financial affairs and reduce the state's perspective, as the secretary of finance said in 2010. A minister is now offering a financial bill that is still being added to the State Department. The state has spread in the history of this government, and no attempts have been made to reduce the rate of state activities. Is that contrary to what the Independence Party has proclaimed for each election? Increase in funding for the Ministry of Presidency since 2018 is 876 million. K. Increasing to environmental management since 2018 is 1,218 million. K. which is an increase of 35%. Between 2019 and 2020 an increase of 572 million. For example, K. Clearly, the Ministry has, on behalf of the government, neglected its role in evaluating the impact of a prime project on the burden of employment. Very limited work has been done to consider existing legislation and how to simplify it, lower the burden of rule, and reduce competitiveness. This is a very important subject. A lot of regular work comes from the European Union through the EEA Convention. It is apparent that in terms of the contract of a prime project to introduce EEA rules, the Ministry is not currently using the scope Iceland has to ease the burden of order but, contrary to the burdensome rules it adds. Studies have shown that this has been done in one third of the cases of induction of new EEA legislation. A number of such examples have been identified by professional drivers. It's supposed to be the policy of every government to simplify a rule book. Year after year the work of the management system in Iceland is growing and the costs it brings. This cost is paid by taxpayers. It is vital to reduce the burden of rule and to reduce blundering. In recent years, there has been not much economy within the Council of Government. It is long time to attack the public system and reduce the public activity. In addition, it is unwise to continue to add to the Kingdom display, where changing the government's revenues can be a source of hardship and pain. So government priorities need to be better established. For example, the context of the United Nations Organization's Association and the Bank of Iceland should include economic management. Interestingly, when the united plans were presented, it was specifically noted that there was no room to reduce the number of employees. It's the wrong approach, Mr. President. Unions should include saving to taxpayers. In addition, the pay in the budget has increased dramatically during recent years and is high in relation to the private sector. The increase in budgets beyond the general price increase is rule rather than exception. The government becomes more and more expensive to taxpayers. This adds up the costs of state surveillance. The bill has little country support requirements. The Independence Party now known to represent the Ministry of Economics and Economics has the capacity to handle this situation, as he has so many sermons. Rather, he adds to the Kingdom display as never before. The fact is that when government agencies are united, no single economy will be made on the part of the government. A fine example of this is the unity of UNECE and the Federal Bank, as mentioned earlier. Governments must look to the opportunities that will create for economic management in the unity of these two institutions. For one reason at unity, there is a problem that arises from the present system of things. There is a clear opportunity to match both institutions and opportunities to make a living without affecting quality. In addition, it is warranted to make an independent assessment of the budget management account for unity with the National Bank. There are many things that are not clear about unity. The budget paid by financial companies for the FME is about 2.3 billion dollars. Over the past few years, they've gone up a lot. Budget companies are increasing the cost of data processing and data cutoffs by the Rapporteur. The FME and Secret Bank could be manipulated by joint support centres and the harmonization of data between institutions. The story has shown that the cost of the government tends to increase with its institutions and is intended to expand its housing for a good example in the Union. The Central Party proposes a transition to the bill that 15% of the economy will be created by the state as a result of its union with the Federal Bank and the SEC. That should save the state budget about 350 million. K. every year. Iceland is a small country, so it is even more important in this country than in most other countries to consider practical in as many areas as possible. In 2020, the central category is bringing a change to the budget for the 2020 budget, which aims to reduce the state's attitude and to demand an economy of more than 10% in the management business of all schemes. The money will be given to the government's funds at $1.1 billion. In addition, there is a special economy crisis between Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC up to 350 million. K. ... asI usedto say. Thus, a total of 1,450 million government profits are being made. K. in 2020. On page 18. 5 In this article, you will find a table on the practicality requirement required by the Central Ministry. Next thing I want to do, the importance of reducing the insurance bill further. That action is necessary and is reasonable and is in addition to the decline that has been offered in the bill. As the year has passed, employment markets have deteriorated. Looks like it's going to be. Some 7,000 people are now out of work on the work programme and have increased by over 2,700 since the same time last year. More than 1,000 people have lost their jobs in museums for the past year, as well as the 1,100 who lost their jobs at the fall of WOW air. Governments should always seek to strengthen the work environment of Icelandic enterprises, especially now that the economic environment is less winding up the sails. Icelandic companies need to meet rising pay costs in the years to come and resist loss of employment. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison, with the highest in the Northern countries behind Norway. In an effort to close the budget, companies were raised after the 2008 financial collapse. However, tax changes have been taking place ever since. It's been a failure for the government to cut down the insurance fee, which is one of the largest stock markets in the state, but according to the bill, it will be due to 11% of the next year's tax fees. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. High insurance costs undermine the competitiveness of these companies. The improved competitiveness of Iceland is very important, and especially when the economy is slowed down rapidly. Especially does the government's government's contract highlight the reduction of the insurance fee, but it is not enough for our Middle Class. In addition, industrial organizations have concluded the same way. The competitiveness of domestic enterprises towards foreign rivals has deteriorated over the past few years because of the domestic cost increase measured in foreign currency. This trend is now evident in the less valuable production of exports and enterprises on the national markets that compete with foreign companies. For the 2008 economic collapse, the bail bill was 5.34%, but it was promoted to 8.655% following it. The increase was thought of as a temporary operation to cover a huge increase in expenses due to sudden unemployment. The premise for the rise and the evidence that was then used to raise the cost no longer apply, since unemployment has been low in a long period of time. Unemployment was 3.7% in September and had declined since the preceding month. ASI has recently shown that it is important to return an increase in the insurance bill. It is a wonder that governments have been reluctant to reduce their insurance fees because the benefits are repeated. The fact is, however, that the tax paid has increasingly been used to finance other financial expenses. If the decline is to contribute to the balance of the job market and to the less pay raise in the next year, it needs to be more than 0.25%. The pay is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees. The more dollars the company pays in pay, the more money it will be paid in terms of insurance. The higher the insurance bill, the more expensive the employee is for his company. The higher the percentage, the less pay, the less the company can live up to. The price reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs. Therefore, private companies' growth potentials are blocked by high insurance costs. The central category is moving the change proposal to the bill that the insurance rate drops by 0.25% next year in addition to the expected fall in the bill. With the approved change of the proposal, their rate will decrease from 6.35% to 6.10%. It is reasonable to assume that these taxes will be no greater than they were before a collapse when the level of employment was comparable to ours. In spite of the fact that insurance is still short, it is the same percentage of corporate pay as it was for the financial breakdown. The effects of the reduction of insurance costs by 0.25% next year in addition to the proposed reduction in the bill are negative for the state's budget of about 2 billion dollars. The Middle Party's proposal is full of resources and can be considered in committees rather than in others. the central category assumes that the construction site of the National Bank on Eastern Sea will be sold and the estimated property value will be about 2 billion dollars. The Land Bank bought the property over five years ago less than a billion bucks. The fortunes of the bank then go into a government fund, but the bank's bank owner is 98%. It is also assumed in the Central Party proposal, a secondary section of the budget board, that the construction of the Commission will be postponed and this will result in a further 550 billion. K. for a provision for the treasure of the state. The reduction in the insurance price makes it easier for companies to recruit new employees and do better with what is already being paid, which, in turn, increases the tax pay on the state's budget, makes great progress, and especially now, when increasing unemployment is expected. Mr. President. Next time, I want to go to the nurses. The middle class has an adjustment to the bill where 800 million are expected to be put. K. in improving the urgent problems of nursing homes. Nursery is one of the most important foundations of the Icelandic welfare system, and the government has failed to fulfill the plans presented in the Constitution to strengthen the staff of nursing homes and daily training. During the two years that the government has been ruling, it has consistently impaired the flow of nursing homes. A public opinion has shown that nursing management is generally very heavy, and the level of propaganda has increased year by year, in line with the financial limitations of the government. A contract between nursing homes and Iceland's Medical Insurance ran out at the end of 2018, when health insurance changed its methodology to finance. It is important that the decision of health insurance has been made without discussions with nursing homes and must be made as it is that it is not the best way to negotiate with a company such as the Social Services Organization or the European Union. The government's budget for 2020-2024 shows that the largest public funds project in connection with the media of nursing and rehabilitation services is a campaign involving the proliferation of nurses, both by rebuilding older space and by building new ones, including the development of new ones. with the building of a nursing home. This is a total of over 900 compartments. Governments have proclaimed that more than 700 spaces will be built for 2024 when it is estimated to be over 3,400 total, a 26% increase since 2018. At the same time, the government is assuming only a 6% increase in funding for the business sector, i.e. in nursing homes. Clearly, the budget has taken little account of the construction or business of new nurses and has to be viewed as reprehensible. It is not enough to build a new nursing home, but it must also ensure leading employers for homes so that they can do their job. It is necessary to go to the sheepfolds of the nursing homes seriously and to review the reports of the National Reconnaissance on the topic area. The condition of nurses and medical staff in nursing homes is not easy. The head of Iceland's Hospitalist Association said that there was a serious shortage of medical personnel in nursing homes. It has been said that individuals with a great need for service have had to be referred to where there is no medical staff available. Reasons for human failure including Because the nursing home of the country has been paying attention to funding for the ministry during the past few years. The needed supply of business funds has been made to hospitals, clinics, and health care, but nursing homes have been cut down. Organizational organisations in welfare services have repeatedly highlighted the need for support of nursing and residence services and rehabilitation. The world's most difficult area is a nursing home. It's coming even. This is because it is impossible to achieve the size prosperity achieved by the number of beds that are normally recognized in the capital area. Mr. President. There has to be a credible conversation between the Department of Health, Iceland's Medical Insurance, Old Age and Company. The premise of success and a broader agreement on the seminary is an increasing understanding of the nature of nursing homes. It's coming even. ... ina reviewofthecompany ofenterprises firms in welfare services. The middle class finds it very important to meet them with problems that exist in this important category and, as previously said, suggest an additional amount of money in the transition to these institutions of 800 million. K. to improve urgent business problems. Mr. President. Next, I'm going to step back to a chapter of the Commission opinion entitled New taxes reduce the reported tax reduction. There are substantial changes in individual income taxation systems to meet government promises in terms of collective labour market agreements last spring. A three-stage income tax system with a new low - income phase will be adopted that will take place in two stages between 2020 and 2021. So it is estimated that a third of the changes will take place in 2020 and two thirds in 2021. These measures are expected to increase their provision of earnings by 10,000 dollars. per month. At the same time, it is suggested that child - improvement limits rise to 325,000. in a month that will be most likely to affect the most efficient population. There are certain tax increases in the bill, despite the reported tax declines. The increase in the rate of fuel and diesel oil is expected, the rate of automobiles is rising, alcohol and tobacco, the rate of radio pay is rising, the cost of the elderly is rising, the cost of recycling is rising, etc. The new fiscal tax planned by the government for financial work but has been restored as a result of poor preparation will cost the land 6,000 dollars. Next year, $12,000. Every year when he is fully operational and realizes that it is the will of the government that this tax will be laid on, which may be delayed by one year because of the previously poor preparation of the aforementioned tax. Then carbon costs will rise by 10% next year, which will mean an increase in gasoline and diesel oil. Thus, the government is raising a number of taxes and fees that reduce the taxes mentioned above. Thus, taxation to the public is considerably lower than the government has proclaimed. A new three - step tax system goes contrary to the Independence Party's policy of simplifying the tax system. The Independence Party's financial and economic minister has previously said that three tax steps were a very unfortunate arrangement, and in order to complicate the tax system. In 2019 it is estimated that the annual income of the state's funds of new taxes and tax increases will be more than 115 billion. corresponding to approximately 15% of the total tax dollars in the state. Thus, despite the foretold tax returns to 97 billion dollars. in an increase in tax recovery from the last down cycle as a home, and business still stands. In the case of funding new transport projects through special payments of individual roads or user expenditures, as has been done on the part of the government, the nature of the increase in taxes on individuals is, in turn, reducing the provisional resources of the public. If plans become reality in connection with a new transport plan, it is clear that a tax reduction will not be required at the end of this period. Mr. President. Iceland is a state of high taxes on a global scale. The number of tax increases in previous years is largely unmoved. A priority should be to retract the tax increases taken after the collapse of the bank. The government has raised capital taxes, but at the same time it has been promised to reimburse the taxpayer. There's no mention of such a reexamination in the budget bill. When the capital tax was taken up, the low tax rate was short with a broad tax factor. The tax stock is still wide, but the tax rate has doubled. The middle class stresses that now that the State's debt is rapidly down, there is room to consider reducing the taxes on people and businesses in the country, not increasing the nation's affairs, as the government is particularly interested in. The reduction in taxes is a wise arrangement when the economy is downstuffed. True, the government is reducing taxes on the lowest income, but it is raising a number of other fees, so the net tax decline is not what you call them. In Iceland tax returns to the highest in the world when pension money is taken into account. It is long since time to reduce spells in the public and in the business, thus releasing an increase in wealth. It is useful for society to extend its resources to people and businesses. At the same time, countries and communities need to better handle the tax dollars they take to them. Next time, Mr. President, I'd like to step on the carbon tax and the 10% increase the government is headed for. Here is a chapter in the panel of members of the Central Party's Committee on Funds that carry a prescription without carbon tax ◯ do not level the population in fair terms. Natural protection and other environmental protection are among the most important subjects of the day. But government reactions have not been in harmony with this. All too often, they have been based on useless, even harmful virtualism, such as. shows up in new taxes without following the goals or methods of assessing the results. The assessment of success is very important in this regard. It's a new tax in Iceland, as we know it. The bill shows that in 2020 income of carbon bills is estimated to be 6.3 billion. The price has already increased by 65% in a very short period of time, two years. Then the carbon will rise by 10% next year, in addition to the 65% increase that has already occurred since 2017. Thus, the carbon price has increased by 82% since 2017, after a 10% increase in the next year, government plans have gone up. In this context, it should also be kept in mind that governments estimate that the State budget will receive 4.8 billion dollars. ... intheflage of sales of documents like I traced here at the beginning. In many parts of the world, government incomes from such emissions are being used to take action in climate. It is unclear how this is being done in this country. On the contrary, the sole purpose of sales seems to be to diminish the balance of the state's funds. The government's income of carbon tax is not a direct earmark of action on climate, and only part of it runs there. The middle class feels that the increase in this price is all too modest, especially in view of the fact that the results of the tax system cannot be clearly demonstrated. An even further increase of 10% is expected next year and is estimated to result in a government budget of 375 million. K. in income, including side effects on value taxes. At present, the rate of carbon is over 12 pm. each litre of gasoline and diesel, as well as the fuel restrictions, contributes to further increase the pressure on the public and particularly on people in the country. It may be reasoned, Mr. President, that with the carbon bill, citizens of the country are being taxed more than any other end of the electrical carvailing in the capital area, much easier than in the region where supplies are built like loading stations in the capital area than there. Nevertheless, electric car owners have complained that electrical infrastructures are not sufficiently satisfactory in the capital, much less in the region where the infrastructure is simply too far too far away. In addition, inhabitants of the country use much more than that of automobiles driven by fossil fuels, gasoline, and diesel oil, driving more because of their distance, and thus buying more fuel. It would be reasonable to conclude that as a result of the rise in carbon costs, the amount of taxes and the equivalent of environmental activity would be reduced if the objective was to reduce pollution. Not so, though. The main objective of carbon costs is to encourage both homes and businesses to reduce emissions by switching to cleaner energy. First, it is by no means possible for anyone to switch to an electric vehicle, and second, the rest of the vehicle is still suitable in the country. First, it draws near to the limit of the automobiles and the number of loading stations. Thus, the contribution of carbon is different to the population of the capital and to the inhabitants of the region. So there is, in fact, a difference in currency between these groups. Thus, the tax suffers the relatively worst in terms of the income and the inhabitants of the country. Energy exchange encouragement is a good price price, but it has to be in line with reality. Energy exchange for fishing companies, industry, and employment equipment is not a practical option at present. The carbon tax has a direct economic effect on the economy. Without any counterweight measures, the tax weakens the economy and reduces the competitiveness of an enterprise. Ideas are considered noble, but governments must give careful consideration to the purpose, basis, and goal of the tax system, especially who are taxing and who are not taxing. The aim of the expenditure is to reduce emissions without diluting the competitiveness of work life and should be the same in this country. In other countries, therefore, other taxes have been lowered against the price or were given by other taxes. Iceland is, for example. One State in Europe where the fishing fleet has no access or is fortified with fuel taxes. This will further reduce competitiveness. Iceland's employment agency has researched domestic expenses, and it shows that fuel use is somewhat higher in rural areas than in urban areas. The difference reflects the fact that the population of the country has to travel more long distances. The financial and economic minister has acknowledged the greater impact of carbon costs on rural population. This is shown in the reply of a minister to a inquiry at the General Assembly. Thus, in fact, the carbon costs are a traditional tax increase on people and companies where taxation is more taxing on the land. So this new tax burden is not balanced on the people of the land. In addition, the Environment Minister has said that the exact results of the cost are difficult to assess, measured in less emissions than if the price had not been passed. This was shown in the reply of a minister to a council inquiry and confirmed by the Environment Ministry at a meeting with a financial committee. No initiatives are being proclaimed on the bills related to the budget that meet the population of the country for the sake of the cost. In addition, it is not apparent that environmental activity will not be involved or that other taxes will be reduced to counterweight. The change in carbon is tax increase, put in a suit of green tax. It would be reasonable, then, to reduce the cost of other environmental factors. We have to look to other countries in this regard. In Denmark, the government did so. too soon when they raised their taxes on the environmental issues of an enterprise. In Norway, carbon costs are lower than Iceland and, in part, reimburse certain conditions. The level of carbon costs must not increase the cost of Icelandic enterprises beyond that of foreign competitors. This reduces competitiveness, reduces the share of the Icelandic enterprises and thereby the means to invest. At the same time, the likelihood that the object of the price will be met diminishes. What further reduces competitiveness is that non-employment tax obligations in this country are the exception of the carbon tax. Thus, foreign ships that take oil in this country do not have to pay the price, but in some cases they are fishing in the same way that they do. A foreign fishing ship, a cruise ship, and a freighter do not pay the carbon price of fueling here on the land, and no carbon tax is paid by local aircraft fuel in the state's budget. Although technology is rapidly developing in these areas, larger vehicles, workers, and some industrial instruments are not available to use renewable energy. It belongs, for example. We're in the ground sector and agriculture. Thus, energy exchange is not a realistic option at present, especially for the industry and employment equipment that use so - called colored oil, and the potential for such factors for energy exchange is negligible. The amount of carbon is a tax that variously affects the sector's sector, and it is reasonable that the overall policy in the case should be taken before continuing. Interestingly, the lack of accurate records over the government's contributions to the counterimbursement of projects that may include taxation. related to the contractions of greenhouse gas emissions or improved air quality in general. A spontaneous and natural requirement is that governments publicly publish their plans for the preparation of the carbon account. Thus, the central category suggests that the rate of increase in the carbon bill of 10% in the budget will not be accomplished until the whole policy is established on how to use carbon charges in the battle of climate change without causing it to bite on the land or competitiveness of industry and to reduce the intensity of the economy. The reduction in carbon dioxide costs will reduce inflation pressure with a reduction in fuel price. Mr. President. Next time, I'd like to step on a planned tax. The financial work was proposed to put a nose tax on people and businesses in the country, but as with taxation on travel services, the government was reassigned to this tax because of poor preparation. However, it is quite clear that the government's policy is to impose this tax on me and that it seems to me that it will be placed on the budget in the year. It seems that it is a special interest in the government to put on new taxes and put them on such beautiful costumes and give them names like green taxes. The bill expected to add a so - called price tax to people and businesses that would make up about 1.5 billion of their income during 2020 and 2.5 billion when they were fully involved in the production of 2021. If this plan becomes a reality, it's about 6,000 K. The taxation of a family of four in 2020, or will be delayed by year, and it will be about $12,000. when he's in full effect. In this regard, it should be noted that in the review of the stakeholders, this taxation rate received a complete decline, especially in preparation, and that it requires careful attention on how the government will conduct it in the future. Clearly, this has a significant impact on e.g. The job life, and it's not too critical to go to such taxation without all stakeholders being included. Next time, I'd just like to step in on the Land Hospital. As I've mentioned here, the Landsaholic is the largest and most important medical facility in the country. He has to appoint outstanding employees who perform unselfish work each day, often under difficult circumstances. A lot of discussions have developed about the hospital's problem, and the problem has a wide variety of factors. The point is, the hospital and its services are growing faster than budgets assume, despite the expected actual growth of 1.8% each year. The hospital has taken on new projects that have not been followed. For example, on the part of the directors of health care things have been observed. the so - called efflux problem is not solved, which includes hospital care staff who should remain in nursing homes. Interpretations of collective agreements have been made that have been difficult to assess, including a labour agreement with physicians in 2015. The agreement was good for the health system, but cost factors have been underestimated, and the hospital has not received financial support that is needed to cover the total cost of this contract. In such cases, when a contract is made, it is urgent that it is quite clear what the real cost is for the state and how to deal with it. Healthcare professionals are advised to have adequate medical care and to ensure adequate design at any given time. His greatest challenge is his care for the hospital's carers. The health authorities have not produced any plans to deal with them. The Management Board of the Land Hospital has presented a budget for maintenance measures due to the compromise of business. One of these measures is to dissuade from a special facility for nurses due to long-term design problems in the hospital, i.e. through what has been called Hiklu projects, where nurses have been paid stress for their jobs in an effort to attract them to work and to increase their ratio of employment. This is an important project, and it is a concern that we should not lose because it will mean extra overtime, and the overtime will quickly become big numbers in the big context. There is a great shortage of nurses at the Land Hospital, and they share many of them. It is the very nature of this ministry that it is unpredictable in many areas. This is an emergency hospital, and we will never end the emergency services, even if funds have been completed. The hospital will need some kind of flexibility, so we do not face this crisis every year. We must realize that the pressures on health will increase over the next few years and decades as the nation's life span increases. If we are to ensure excellent health care for all, our health - care system must be much more efficient. A vivid example of the problem of this system is that patients are sent to foreign countries for measures three times as much as they would cost in Iceland. It does not mean that the government would refer to the administration of the Land Hospital and the administration of the Land Hospital to identify the government. The nation is getting older, and this will mean increased pressures on the system. Older people 80 years of age and older need the highest health care. In addition, new health technology has called for an increase in cost. Governments must face the problem and ensure the long - term funding of the most important health facility in the country. Mr. President. I see my time is beginning to run out, but I'm just going to step back to the agriculture. The nation's basic work from land mines has been attended in various directions. Agrienvironment schemes have declined, and this bill is reduced. There is no mention of the agriculture of the Committee members of a greater proportion of budgetary committees to the budget bill. That may tell you a story. They have succumbed to unfair and dangerous requirements for the increase in food imports that do not meet health requirements, food that are not prepared under the conditions intended in Icelandic agriculture. A very adverse toll agreement has recently gone into effect, and at the same time, it is expected to provide a number of support to Icelandic food producers and consumers. At the same time, there is a growing demand for European agriculture. The situation's competitiveness with foreign production continues to mount. Farming and food production are the basis for global living. Not to be overlooked, however, is the country's contribution to domestic food production. National food production is required to protect land and sea as one of the basics of society. At once, action must be taken to secure the position of sheep harvests, but it does not show signs of the budget. At once, counter measures must be made against the adverse toll agreements that recently took place and are a threat to domestic food production. It is difficult to dispose of funding counter measures in the budget set up the agriculture and the expected import of agricultural products and what to return. In such an important matter, disintegration of measures and contributions should be followed in the section on agriculture in the budgetary bill. I'd like to move next only to the travel service, which is our largest industry and is facing a lot of uncertainty. The development of tourism is among the main uncertainty factors in terms of the budget. In recent years, the importance of tourism in gross domestic production has increased from 3.4% in 2010 to 8.6% in 2017. The contribution of tourism to the collection of currency is considerable. So watching this article has a significant impact on the economic leaders of the bill. The largest export of the country still has too much uncertainty. Interestingly, contributions to travel services reduce an absolute value of 292 billion. At a point, 12.8% from the 2019 budget. The article has grown rapidly over the past few years, but now it needs to deal with slower growth and even contractions. It is important to take this action by improving the current situation immediately, e.g. with a faster reduction in insurance costs. Although tourism lines have been clarified during the past few months, after the fall of WOWair, the uncertainty has not been lifted and the adaptation of tourism to the changed situation is not complete. Travel services are expected to have to cope with a very negative impact on the spread of Britain from the EU, as well as changes in economic prospects in the United States and China. Under such circumstances, the competitiveness of Icelandic tourism can be crucial. It's coming even. ... ina review of the Association of travel services by the bill. A financial program 20200/2024 shows that the planned changes in tourism will be made at the time of the programme, but it appears that the plans have been postponed and are happy to do so. It should be kept in mind that the planned tax system for tourists is very dangerous at this stage and in the down cycle and uncertainty of the article. This would inevitably have a direct bearing on the global competitiveness of the article. I encourage the government to come to the earth with caution as we reflect on the tax collection of this important article. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to give a special mention that the Central Party stresses the extra funding for customs, Narcotics and security on bordering up to 250 million. K. and I will conclude later in our discussion that we have a set of options of up to 525 million. K. An extra microchip. It is a two-fold increase in proposals to the labour agency to increase the number of jobs with support, an important option that has been sadly malused and I will discuss it more later, and in addition we are going to put up with the budget of micromotives and suggest an additional 325 billion. K. let's go up it. This is important for those who can work at a job to obtain a higher amount of provision. I see, Mr. President, that my time is over. There are some things I haven't come in on and I will try to introduce them later in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech of Þórarinsson's son. It's strange to come here and try to get an answer in one minute after an hour's speech. It's special. Hv. A senator discussed the economic development and economic responses and the importance of paying off debts. Most of the thing came on like a dog. A senator called to see where we were moving. Now there is a built-in space of uncertainty in the GDP, which, in fact, can be said to exist, as we are doing, to provide resistance in the economy as it is currently. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. This is the subject of the government's economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u69	As president could have had. Senators one minute to go each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budgetary committee, for the counter-reguage. I agree with that, and I've said that it has been wise to lower the debt of the state's debt and to give the state funds more leeway in the down cycle. What may be the most important thing about this is to work against the down cycle, and that's where we have a central class, e.g. Create a suggestion to lower the insurance bill further in an effort to stimulate your job life. We believe there is room to further lower it, about 0.25%. This enables the companies to trust their management ground, and as unemployment increases, companies have the potential to try to increase their jobs and do better with their existing workers. I've got to take a second answer, since we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer, and he agrees, it is important to lower taxes, lower insurance, reduce individual and business bills, reduce income taxes, and reduce tax taxes, especially on groups with less income and intermediate groups as they are being done. Hv. A senator discussed the travel service, and I agree with him that it is important that we be able to do this work that always weighs more and more on the value. It is true, though, that if we look at the season since 2017, we have made more donations for travel. We're talking about a travel agency, a tourist's enterprise, research and market, and we're adding to the rest of our years. But it is, of course, 2.5 billion planned taxation, which should be of great importance in the present situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u72	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator said that it was wise to abandon plans to add a special tax to the tourism service of 2.5 billion dollars. However, it was unwise to bring these ideas at the beginning of the financial work because it can and has certainly hurt some of the articles. This is an article that operates in a much international competitive environment, and news is now coming in fast as we know today and all plans for taxation, e.g. in particular visitors to the country, can make people look less interesting in Iceland as their destination simply because their costs are high when they arrive in the country and Iceland is a relatively expensive tourist country. I thank you, though, that the government saw in these matters, and it has to say, as it is, that these ideas were very unrealistic, and hopefully they learn from experience. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u73	Mr. President. Sources of emissions are being developed because of the production of clean energy in Iceland, and companies are buying them to support their work, which encourages energy exchange. Release clearances continue to rise at high prices. In other words, we are making money from our green energy, but at the same time, we help others to change their system of business. We benefit here at home by acquiring 4.8 billion dollars. ... withtheexploitational rights, using the funds at home, but by the way, we're getting data on the global business and thus improving the overall climate. When Middle-class members suggest that one day the Icelanders have to buy releases because of a less - than - mine reaction to reduce their own emissions, I feel that they are shot into the air. I'm gonna ask you what. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson to explain the evidence for this prediction or claim.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think the point of this case is that this is the second time that is being sold emissions, and it was criticized for the last financial effort from here on out of the platform. At that time, sources were given to sell for about a year ago. 2.5 billion, and now it's almost 5 billion. It's perfectly clear, like a snooze. A senator noted that these sources are valuable. Then you ask yourself, " Why, then, are these sources being sold for this purpose? ' Will this not be even more valuable in time? It is clear that selling these sources may be missing the value we could later receive. I don't think this arrangement makes sense, too, in view of the fact that carbon charges are being raised as if I were correctly traced to my own speech, at the same time as selling release clearances. [[The president calls.]] Is there any sense in that case? Hv. A senator may be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u75	Mr. President. Hv. A senator completely misunderstands this. First, we receive new releases each year. We're not collecting them. Second, it's totally unrelated to green taxes at home. There's no connection between them. I think he just needs to know what releases are and what they are used for. I'm gonna ask you something else. There's talk of high costs in tourists when they get to Iceland. What's our high price when tourists come to Iceland? I'd like to admit, though, that Iceland's prices are very high in tourism but that there's a high amount of special cost coming to Iceland for tourists, let's say we added 1,000 bucks. in some sort of entrance charge when we are talking about maybe $200,000. The average loss of tourists in Iceland in one to two weeks. But what are these costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u76	Mr. President. I told it in my speech that I thought it would be very important to avoid putting the so - called return fees on tourists, as is the case today. She's in a lot of uncertainty. This article is very important to us, and it serves on a global competitive basis, where the weather may be very rapid. In case of a moment. A senator is asking about the high costs I meant that it's expensive for tourists to come here, Iceland's expensive tourist country. That was what I said primarily and stressed. Then to add a price on that, I just think it's unsatisfactory. That's how I've explained this and if any, I've explained it. A senator has misunderstood my feelings about them primarily as to what I was talking about. We must be very careful when it comes to the ideas about taxes the government had planned for, but had to fall away, including those of the United States. Because preparation was very poor and realized that it could have had very serious consequences for this article, which is important in the economic situation for the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. I don't agree with him in all things, but it's natural that we don't agree on everything. In particular, I don't agree with the argument. A senator about the carbon bill, but I'm not going to discuss it any more. I'm going to ask him why. A candidate on one point involved the increase in income resources for the state funds mentioned in this table and on the other, in text on page 24. 6th i.e. with a sale at the Land Bank, right now. A senator believes that it will be possible to sell for 2 billion. I can't figure out how to assume that money will come out of the bank's books. Are we willing to do that? Is that what they've been discussing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u78	Thank you. A senator's inquiry and his interest in this matter because we've already discussed it here, and I've discussed it in this chair that I think very unwise that the Lands Bank, which is 98% of its treasure, should be taking such a big job on one of the most expensive property in the country. I remind you that there are significant changes in banking services ahead and that they have been taking place. The number of workers has decreased very much, so the logical support for building 17,000 m2 structures in this place is very high in my opinion, as well as the plans of the Lands Bank are renting out much of the building to another function. I don't think this is the role of the Land Bank. Hv. A senator asked how this payment would come into the state funds. The bank would simply be made in the power of the owner, owner's policy, to sell this property, and its value would then flow into a state fund through the bank of the Lands Bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u79	Mr. President. I'm going to find that this methodology has a problem. The senator would follow up, especially when we are repeatedly told in this hall and repeatedly claimed that we politicians are not to interfere with the direct operation of the Lands Bank, we have an instrument for what is called the Bank Management of the State, and we are not to be involved in any particular decisions there or that I thought was the idea. But I'd like to ask you a later question. A senator only into a tax incarcerated tax, which will get a bit of room in the council's committee party, and I'm glad that there's a positive spirit in that section to the point where we need to reduce our awareness. However, I would like to ask the senator if he has any suggestions on how to reduce the commitment of companies to the big part of the plague. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Do we not have to contribute in some way to get them to enter a better category?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and finer that he entered the tax system because there was still another tax system on the part of the established government, which was extremely ill prepared and the government was restored again because there was no way to understand how to collect this tax and the defence was very short. This tax particularly affects the companies in the country. It is irresponsible to intend to add another taxation to the companies of the country in this year's trip when subsidies and unemployment increase and we need to strengthen our companies. [[Take it up into the firms.]] Hv. A senator asked about other routes, and we in the Middle East have, for example. Suggested a synopsis proposal for high - quality operating, so this is one way. I have to say to what. A senator said that it is very bad when such a poorly prepared project and poorly prepared taxation ideas are started. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, affects all corporate plans, etc. ... and thenwe'llsee that the government is making a comeback on this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid, though, that there is a reason to pay for this tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u81	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very detailed speech and tragedy to hear that he did not even come to everything in the 60 - minute period but that he will give us another speech. That's exactly what I want to ask you. A senator's way into the environment a little bit more. The antiquated tax was one that was discussed earlier. I wondered, " What suggestions are in this regard? ' Hv. A senator mentioned a proposal for a high - quality incineration station, which we most certainly need a burning station, but I can't believe it and I hope it isn't that it's really the only solution to the Central Party when it comes to our wastes. It's very good to see that in the opinion of the committee at the time. A senator that nature protection and other environmental protection are among the most important topics of the day. It is claimed that the response of the government is somehow virtual. I wondered, " What is the objective of the Central Party, and what is the response of the Central Party in that regard? ' I've heard from here that finding oil in Icelandic soil is the most environmentally friendly thing we could do and gasing with the most environmentally friendly to go to, and it is also called a green bond. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What are the solutions of the Central Party, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It is only a short time to answer this in a minute or so, but the point remains to the financial bill. Then I have specifically traced it with the carbon bill that I believe it is an example of taxation, which would actually be said to be a premise in this respect to the introduction, which is now 6.3 billion next year, not all ear -marking measures in climate matters, for example. Besides, that taxation is not fair enough for the people of the land, and I traced it very well in my speech. I think, first of all, the requirement is that the government maintains a sort of accounting for what it costs. This is the first step in making the public aware that the work is taking place. But that's not so, unfortunately, in these government policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u84	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. At least a senator can agree that it would be good to keep a good account of the climate, which is part of the policy. But I still need answers. However, it is good to know that in 2 Corinthians. Money can give you more speeches, and perhaps it can be a struggle. Hence, a senator spits into the next talk what the Middle Party's real suggestions are already up to climate, which they often admit to being large and important. I have sometimes simply wondered if the Central Party supports the Paris Convention, whether the Central Party supports the United Nations World Goals, and that Iceland is involved in the goals we have set for ourselves. If so, it would be very interesting to have some real solutions to how we should achieve it. I can totally say that there is always a need to be very careful about tax and tax returns, but it is accepted that rising prices affect demand. The Sambland of solutions with some carbon charge or taxation and, on the other hand, some appeals have often worked very well. [[The president calls.]] We see many examples of this about us. I'm calling for the Central Party's position. Does the Central Party support the Paris Convention and participate in Iceland's world goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u85	Mr. President. We can discuss this in a special discussion of the Paris covenant, but we are making financial decisions. I'd like to point out that I don't count, and we in the Central Party don't think that it's normal, e.g. Car owners should pay about 80% of all the environmental taxes but only in the context of pollution in the range of 6◯8%. It is not being balanced in a reasonable way. That's the point. Let's not forget that we're talking about Iceland making a move, etc. Which nations pollute the most? Isn't it China, America, India, with 50% of all pollution in the world? [[...the Paris Convention.]] We're somewhere out there with 0.00-some percent. We are, for example. with a heating system at 90% of homes. Why don't we talk about what's good, what we do well? We produce electricity in a environmentally friendly way. Why don't we talk about it? [[Up front.]] Shouldn't we also talk about these nations, the United States, China, and India, taking action and doing better? [[Forecast: Paris covenant...]] Is it true that only citizens of the land are paying a special tax that is unfair and that is unprovable to the people of the land? [[The president calls.]] Let's talk about what America, China, and India should do. [[The president calls.]] Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u86	The president still reminds us of a talk period and prays. Parliaments to give a sound to speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u87	Oh, Frefjörður brambollur, Your urinary incontinence appeared to me. Like a decked cup of paper, on a midnight morning, ... onthelugglingbee. Which, most certainly, has told, ... aggressor, complaining. Into a decomposing smell of an irresistible organist. Now the iodine - landed marshes Of course, there was a hungry creature. And a living bunch of gotas, and demands such as stick to your liver glue. Booth, I beseech you, my strange tongue: ♪Rollingly spiting at me ♪ with wrinkled ties, stopped. Or I will rend you your poaching lips with the swearer. You'll see. This is how my English translation of Jetz's poem in the guide guide guide to the galaxy through Douglas Adams, readily based on the translation of the Jeltz in a movie called a film, says all that needs to be said about this financial bill and the work that the General Assembly puts in payment of the budget. To the future Icelandic teacher, I'll explain what I'm talking about. Hv. The chairman of a legal committee was asked earlier on whether it was under official financial law. The answer to that question was simply: Yes. However, it is as far as possible with regard to the fact that we are living with certain ancientism. It can be concluded that people in general are well - aware of and are doing their best according to their individual circumstances and current procedures. This involves implementing budgets each year based on previous projects, i.e. how things have always been done before. However, the development of funding is as inevitable as in other areas of national life. We no longer write budgets with cell writing and do not insist on envelopes through mail or suffixes. Our ability to obtain accurate analysis of government decisions is at a level far greater than 100 years ago and is therefore appropriate to quote Vogona poetry, but Vogoni are highly resistant to, utterly intolerant to, trigraphs and tetragraphs, etc. Something about their grandmother is about that. I can't see, however, that these diagnostic devices are used. We've called for quite a bit of information from a budget board, but I don't see a product of the information we were given to the Commission. We still have a bill for the budget, which is pretty much unchanged, and there's an additional agreement for the church meeting that doesn't pass the government laws. Its effect at the Council is that we are once again being handed a bill to a budget based on guesswork on how much money we need in the various projects. Even in the case of cost analysis, members of Congress are not allowed to access them. Of course, it would be best for the funds to have access to these analyses and to look for facts and opinions about them in order to make informed decisions about health status, food safety monitoring procedures, so that they can actually identify where and where to find it. The work of the budget bill seems to be based on a simple organization. The government puts out an all-discreet budget, absolutely. In order to follow the form, a financial committee calls for reviews and brings visitors to their home. Well, that's one box. When it is completed, new national forecasts and the Ministry come up with recalculations, which are crammed into committees and 2rds. budgets with no time to comment from sources. Mean change to 2. e.g. There is a decrease in construction budget to the New Land Hospital at about 3.5 billion dollars. ... theexpecting of the expected delays. We, however, do not know the basis for their calculations, whether they are realistic, sufficient, or if they are correct. Is there really a basis for delay? If so, why is there a basis for rapid action in the years that follow? Will it not be more likely, then, that in later years, there will be an increasing rate of failure? Since there is no way for such changes to be carried out by a client and a visitor, the majority of them go unafraid and most likely remain unscheduled. It seems that it is rather a formality to call visitors to a meeting of the budget committees, which are allowed to attend for a brief moment over the members of the committee. Such visitors may be likened to a sort of disgraced senator, who is just fine by himself, who only suffer for a few moments so that they can continue with the case without taking much into account the complaint and comments of the guests. Small things here and there to appease someone's conscience. You see, reporters have just as little data in their hands as senators to analyze the laws of the law and give out envelopes. It makes it possible that envelopes are generally very superficial, since clients have to puzzle the figures they can find and compare with the available experiences of previous years and hope to do so. There are not too much moves in the fields of burning and grouping to interfere with what they may be making comments. This is similar to putting together a puzzle that has only black pieces. It's very difficult to try together if it's really true. The Senate QA is merely a token. For example, this year's members of Parliament, e.g. Up with an additional contract for the church meeting that simply violates public financial law. It would seem that there was a time to study the basis for that agreement and its impact on financial or financial matters. The right thing is that there is time to ask the Ministry how they feel about what is found there at a different meeting, i.e. reviewing recalculations for a new national interest project. The answers to the pros and cons were not exactly any. One could hear the same prosthesis, which is heard every time it is tried to conduct a serious surveillance program with the Commission's activities. The questions were considered, however, and can be seen in the package I, that there was a little time for a special meeting on the subject. But there were no specific answers, and everything ended up in the same confusion as before. We are left at exactly the same place we have the current contract, let alone this additional deal. The fact is, the council cannot fulfill its role as a supervisor. Some reasons might be given: The members of the greater part allow the Ministry to select the council with empty answers. Because in Icelandic politics the principle of mobilization is accepted by the principle of mobilization, providing an independent will and the conviction of members of Congress, in any way, to a minister at the time of the Council's inspection. The cases are the taints, the dried, the watered, the minimizing, the turning out, and all the means used to avoid responsibility. I can mention my questions about driving and the expenses of a senator who spent a year digging up. It is a matter of the budgetary committee, which has been recognized in the Senate's documents and comments that ministers were not following the rules of day money. It's not finished yet. It's been a well over a year since. I can't even figure out how long the time has gone into that case, is trying to push after getting something going on there, but nothing usually happens when it comes to monitoring. The obvious question, then, must be how to do better. A desirable first step would be for the government to abide by the law. People in the past asked themselves: " How can we do better? The result was a government law on government finances. Here's a good set, let's do it this way, it's a good idea. But there is nothing left to it. Absolutely crazy. It has a quality system based on cost- and profit analysis. An example of such analysis can be found in a synopsis of a policy-makers'strategy. It says that a community unit could save about 36.5 billion dollars. every year. Of course, this isn't all perfect, there is no cost- or profit analysis without criticism, and politics will not disappear with these analyses, but it may change. Politicality is based on such programmes on better data and fewer speculations about the effect of a single ideologies over others. Logic exchanges will be more objective, and the entire work of members of Congress will be more specific and effective. The crowns, in turn, are not the beginning and end of all of these analyses, since much more is being said about government policy. There are also other factors to consider, not just centenarians to whom the government is responsible, such as a service class and public health. This card contains excellent ideas about the economy that I hope to discuss later in my talk. The law on government finance has been my favorite subject for the past few years in discussions about budget and financial programs and perhaps somewhat different from the politics I practice than the other categories that talk about crownings here and there. But I think it's pretty useless when we have such an ostentatious financial bill. It is extremely difficult to open it and see 21 billion there and ask: "What is he going to do? I have no idea. You're going to add a billion? What's he going to wear? No idea either. Then why are you adding it? I have several modifications, but they are very technical, ideological in some way and thus do not play into the transparency of the bill. But this is a classic chapter in my committee, and it may be something about repetitions from earlier years, since it is essential that nothing has changed. To get a full view of the evolution of this section, please refer to a previous opinion. Everything there is as relevant as it is today. The law on government funds assumes that the red thread of the budget process is a government policy, but it always ends in the same place as a budget. This is understandable in some way because it is difficult to stop being Vogon, to change our habits, and to get out of our routine. The management board is afraid to produce a variety of measurable goals and to try new projects into that goal. I have to say, as in the government office, people are really trying and doing good things, but it's not gonna work out in all the administrations and the whole process. There, I'd like to blame the council a little bit. We in the council do our job and we don't keep it together, we're simply supposed to demand the law, it's a requirement to provide the cost and profit analysis. We know they exist. There are statistics about the cost of all these projects, maybe not a profit analysis, and it needs to be added. It's not easy, but it's something to remember everything. One of my favorite goals in the budget is my first objective in the field of medicine and medical products, which says: ▪ A new access to necessary drugs for all the people of the country. What an excellent goal! The measure of success to achieve that target is ◯ the number of marketed medicinal products and the number of medicinal products promised to reach that target. So in the annual report, when a minister arrives and boasts how successful it is to achieve this goal, he says that more drug names have been published than was planned. Great. At the same time, there are regular reports of lack of medicine. A lot of drugs were marketed, full of drug names were available, but they just didn't return to consumers. The scale is definitely wrong about whether the policy will go all the way. I selected random goals, opened the document, and found the next goal I had in my eyes, and it was established by the development of methods for making fish infertile - a tremendously exciting - that of the following standards: the processing scale. Another random measure was a decrease in the rate of state funds to be 55% from 2019◯. That goal on its own is great, especially considering that the 2017 situation was 560 million, easy to reduce that cost. However, when it is better to consider reaching the target by about a 5% reduction from 2019 in 2019 C.E. That's not possible. It's the same cost then. There is obviously a spelling error there and in the other location there is a worksheet, which is not completely accurate. Some things you could fix up in there. This truth cannot be repeated too often, and then I refer back to page. 1: First, government policy; then, mainly in the government covenant, there are other policy-makers in every language field with which the policy of the Treaty is unattainable. Thus, policy must be met by the Treaty and the policy issues of the individual causes, as government policy according to a government contract lacks precise goals. What does it mean, for example, by president's permission: The government is going to place a special emphasis on art studies and increased technical knowledge in their own time? Does this mean the growing number of students in art and technology? Does that mean the extra money for artists and researchers? Any more applications? Is that enough? Ten more students than last year? A 10% increase in students? 10 million. K. A little extra strength? Ten percent increase? All of this fulfills government policy but does not necessarily depend on the expectations of the promises made in the government covenant. There are such questions that need to be answered in government policy in financial planning and in budgets, how to achieve those goals. When policies and standards are set, measures that will achieve them can be proposed. Some of these actions may seem obvious. For example, an increase in funding for a research fund is not necessarily that simple. Let's just raise funding in a research fund, it seems obvious to achieve that goal, put more money there, but it's to prove the results of budgeting. Public financial laws assume that governments should demonstrate this expected result, but there is little good in providing more money if the result is diminished from doing nothing. If everyone is applying and everyone is getting scholarships from a research fund then nothing necessarily works to put more money into him, but if it is done and application is not only increasing, the capital of the rest, and there's not much good in it, not very accurate. Another example is the construction of a new nursing home, which replaces a new nursing home, but the new home is not built in an economic setting and ends up spending more on business than its previous home. That's not a very practical use of funds. Another example is, for example, building a new national hospital without local diagnostics. The present location has been criticized by many because of its many factors. Thus, the key elements of government policy and standards are cost-and-improvement. I can't say that enough. In public finance, it is the beginning and end of all government policies, as the General Assembly and the nation all deserve to be successful in financing and tax returns. But I'm not minimizing the cost-benefit analysis. A simple task is far from normal, but it is necessary. To begin with, some inaccuracies can be expected because we are not necessarily good at it from the start. This technology, however, is available. There are a number of people who can help to do this better, but we can only improve if we start doing this. It'll just be more specific as time passes. Then we'll also get reviews on these cost-and-preservations that can help us do better. It helps a financial committee to get reviews of costs, ideas about something else, priorities. However, we now have a complete list of information. The current situation can, in effect, be described as not fully elucidated. By using our last year as a guide and hoping for the best. When it's well-fed, it causes little trouble. But when it's a bad one, it's all very tricky. Then investments and other projects will be reduced that could bring us better results in the future than any other task that is not delayed. If cost - and - benefit analysis goes down, we could make better decisions, especially when it gets harder a year. Now let's get out of the poem of Jeltz and look to the future. How could Iceland look if it wasn't a conservative administration of power that did little more than usual? No judgment in it. What if in Iceland were a government that did more than that clearly, like focusing on transportation and health matters that are more obvious and that all had before the last election? We could gain a new constitution with the initiative of voters, resource regulations, equal votes, personal requisitions, clearer frameworks for the execution of power, commitment to truth and the responsibility of Ministers and greater and better civil rights. It would be overrun with all forms of corruption, and our social security would be an example of a shameful past. In the future, we live in a prosperous society where human dignity will be ensured by fundamental growth and active democracy. The climate problem is history, just as the hole in the ozone layer is because we were in time, thinking further into the future. We lay the groundwork for a healthy, educated society with emphasis on innovation with a flexible education system in which there is much more to study and book study. The health system is no longer a remote possibility through long periods of waiting, but it is available through distant health care services and good service in the community. Older citizens are offered a flexible retirement and are included in the innovation community, where their experience is effective. It will not be a social barrier, since the contract of disabled persons will be fully respected and the manure that lives in each individual will be enjoyed on their own terms. We stop letting young people start their lives with debt loans on their backs, and they have a voice that can sound everywhere in the community. We live in a community of diverse opportunities, a society that may receive people, and may discuss problems in an open and reasonable way, a community based on civil rights, democracy, responsibility, transparency and privacy. The opportunity lies before us, we just have to choose to step forward and stop circling about the out - of - date past. Since the past does not hang around our necks like an anchor, responsible steps must be taken. We need to resolve what kind of resolution we need to achieve, the collapse of our newfoundism, the national rights and our insurance policy. We need to finish it before we go on because the bad past always comes like a ghost in our backs later. I'd like to talk to you about the prosperity economy that's only been happening in the past few months. A economy in which growth is always expected is expected to produce an infinite large economy in the end. Growth on top is an increase in power, which always increases faster and faster and more as it lasts longer and so grows into the infinite. Infinity is not an instinctive concept for us. The link between infinity and economic systems is so more complex, for when it comes to all of them, economic systems are closely linked to human communities. Clearly, the economy is like a multiple on top of crowds. In fact, most of the interest in recent years and decades is just a population development if the film is drawn up in a very gross way. In the simple form of the economy, the economy either increases in the number of people or in the number of people. Thus, the context of infinity and economy is limited, in its simplest form, of these two sizes. Of course, since we do not expect infinite numbers, unless we can study land on other planets, the possibility of an infinite economy on the multiple variable is limited. It is difficult to see how the multiple variable can live up to the infinity, where a good part of that range is regularly bred. We see this clearly in the automation process. We no longer rely on monks to write books about the printing machine. So monks fell out of the economy a few hundred years ago, but the printing press replaced it. Technology has since enabled us to create an infinite number of copies of each book, but there is not an infinite amount of time or a number of people to give endless numbers of books worth something, and they don't think it, not as infinity, does not work, there is a limit to it. There is a limit to the infinity of the multivariate. There are, however, things that are of infinite value. It is our quality of life and our rights. Justice, as mentioned in the section of the Court of Human Rights; equality, right to life, human dignity, protection rights, privacy, privacy, right to children, right to right, right to birth, freedom of opinion and speech, freedom of knowledge, freedom of the media, freedom of culture and education, freedom of religion, freedom of society, freedom of meeting, social rights, health rights, education, rights to work, right to work, right to work, right to freedom of freedom, right to freedom of liberty, right treatment of inhuman treatment, bans against penalties and bans against martial control. The quality of life we recommend in flat screens, electric cars, services, and wealth is not of infinite value, such as peace, health, security, and independence. It is from where the concept of prosperity comes, that the unit of GDP that we have used for a long time is out of date. That the ideologies of a larger GDP cake are actually a lie that sprays the pieces in most people's pockets but slices on the deportation accounts of the others. When we throw the idea into the trash and start to focus our success on what makes our lives better, we also receive governments that put peace, health, security, and the like as their course. We will then receive budgets that have prosperity goals instead of cake goals. Funding will be focused on a direct quality of life, not on the indirect quality of life that results from extending the cake of the jealous princes and hoping that some crumbs might work. Here we are again into Vogona's world. Take the appropriate steps. Just before the legal committee provided the budget bill for 2nd. Reports from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that add the budget for the past few years were received if pay and price development was added to previous financial initiatives. Usually, the old figures of budgeted plants are only prices updated, but the pay team is often much larger, so there is a misprogram. It's a very interesting table, and it's in the committee's opinion. I'm not going to go anywhere in it, that's a lot of numbers. There are bold numbers showing in the case of a reduction of proposals from budgets 2019 to 2020. Not that it really matters, it's so big, and you don't know what it means, whether you're turning it down or raising it. However, it would be very interesting to have a disintegration of the pay and prices changes depending on how much change is just a raise and how much it is paid. I encourage the Ministry to bring the numbers down next time. Now I have to set my priorities, and I get caught up in the church meeting. Ready? In 1907 there was a law on the wages of parish priests and church sales. By means of the arrangement then established, church interests would be subject to the reward of priests. However, that plan has failed, and most of it has been disagreementd over how to settle the claim of property that has been reported to have taken place in 1907. On the other hand, there is some debate as to whether personal property occurred, since property was an earmarked reward for priests anyway, so there is no such thing as a trust in government fund, and then there is a state - and - church relationship of all kinds. However, this seems to have been the goal, for in the 1997 and 1998 church meeting, it is stated: The Europeans view this agreement on the provision and commitment that was made to their completion because of the wealth received by the state's funds in 1907.◯ In response to Ólafur Hannibalsson's inquiry at 123 C.E., it is stated that the Convention of the Church Convention is untimely and that the total commitment will be made, not in terms of government accounts and financial laws, but only in annual donations. This is very interesting and I don't think it's in the right constitution. The Congregation Meeting expects the government to pay the bishops and bishops, 138 active priests, and the most well - tried and 18 employees of the Bishop's office. Pays were also expected to decrease if there was a decrease in the nation's religion and increase as the number grew. Already the number of registrations is rapidly decreasing, very rapidly, new application to the church meeting where these conditions are removed is being made. I'd say it's a little serious. There's a lot to consider with this deal. To begin with, if this is a projection, as expected, it is very strange that the answers to which property was delivered are not reached, as it is obvious that the final quality is not available. In 1992, a church property committee produced a report, an attachment included in a committee study, over 300 pages, which had been covered with property records and deeds as far back as 1597. It was to find out which land was true in its own possession, the Church of the State's A-section, to keep it clean. This report contains a very accurate list of church property values and values; that amount was over a billion dollars at that time. At the price of 2018, that amount would be over 3 billion. but, at the same time, more than 42 billion dollars have been paid. for the church meeting. The Church Meeting is about two things. On the one hand, meeting the requirements of the Republic of Iceland's constitutions to support and protect the National Church and on property. At the same time, the relationship between state and church that is in Part A of the state's institutions must be looked to, but it must be considered very strange that an institution in Part A has a special contract based on the exclusive rights of the state, which is in all the sense of the Church's institutions. Thus, the state has an exclusive agreement with itself through the National Church if you look at it from an established point of view. After all, on the other hand, and the case is determined by the law and state position and church, the completion of the possession arrangement must be completed, i.e. To move the assets from one government pocket to another pocket. The best sources available on which the church meeting is based are found in the 1984 church ownership committee, also in an attachment report, and in the 1992 Church Committee, which reviews the criteria for the 1984 report, and the list itself appears in the 1992 report. In view of this, it must be assumed that the churches that depended on the 1997 agreement would be the ones in the 1992 report. So it must be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics to stem from the assets delivered to the commitments they made and to sign up for the State Accounting. The answer to whether there is still a commitment on that earth should exist in the government list and in recent financial accounts. However, the answers have not yet been made about the commitments of the earth, but my guess is that no commitments are recorded, and so the State does not. It'll be interesting to see how it goes. The agreement made in 1997 was by means of a revised law. 15 years later, it should have been followed by an updated assessment of the State's commitments to the church, in view of how much money was paid by property contributions. It must be reprehensible that the State has not fulfilled its role and was careful to use public funds in this regard. The additional meeting that was made on September 6 of that year. has also been a 15 - year revision principle, but since the International Assembly of Churches in 1997, new laws on public finances have been passed. Official financial law does not allow for longer contract periods than five years except in exceptional circumstances. It is not even an attempt to explain how the additional meeting meets the exceptions, nor how to comply with certain other conditions under government law, such as supervision, as stated in Article 40. The law. It is obvious, when compared with the conditions of the law and the details of the additional meeting, that various things are not legal. So it would be my third part most irresponsible for the Council to agree with the funds proposed for this agreement. In all things, the common body has the legal authority. This contract is to be rejected by the General Assembly and to cancel the current church agreement and then negotiate a settlement of property that I believe is complete, so it should be quick to do so. The General arranges, however, what is considered sufficient to fulfill the Constitution of the State Church. If negotiations are not reached, it must be carried out in a court where all the data are placed on the table. The results of such a case would never be more costly than the present financial arrangement, which I believe would violate the laws on public finances and 41 G. The Constitution that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized in financial or financial terms. It simply violates the Constitution to commit the State to the future in the manner done at the church meeting. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. I think it's extremely important to see this in this context. We are paying this amount according to the assumption that the arrangement is now, that it has no expiration date but only for eternity. This amount would never be higher if the case was lost in court. Never. It's just impossible. Then I'm going to take care of the budget board. There are many changes that can be made to finance the budget on a bill. The idea is to get your bill after 1. u., by reviews, arrange guests for a meeting of the budget committee, and then give a speculum for a specific date, regardless of whether or not the funds have been completed. In the past, it may have been a rather necessary date that drove the legal committee's work forward to the completion of budgets for a New Year's Day. Now, on November 11, however, it is. I do not necessarily criticize that a financial committee would generalize the case for this date or around it, but I criticize that the matter was taken away because the Commission's discussion was not nearly finished, as I traced earlier. A large number of new data had just arrived to the committee, and no time was given to get comments on the evidence whether or not they were due, how they were affected or not. Changes were made by the government in the wake of changes in national ideals. The changes were made on such short notice that there was no time to make comments. I think it is very critical how much meeting hours are spent in visitors at the cost of diagnostic work within a committee, although visitors are much less extensive than in years before. The law has been changed, not the same criteria in this work, and by changing laws the work of the Committee should be changed too. It would be better with the Committee's time if more time was given for analysing jobs and communications with the Ministry on Information and Probes, such as this. The director came into his discussion of history. Instead of getting clients to the Committee meeting, for example. It is more efficient to ask for an additional reference on a subject for which the Committee has questions before deciding whether visitors will be required. It is a custom for visitors, and it is certainly valuable for the work of the Committee, and I have a great understanding of the importance of the client's ability to read over the tribunals at members of the Committee, but if the General Assembly is to be able to make informed decisions, of the financial resources proposed in the budget, it would require a financial committee to ask questions other than an old law on government property. Official financial laws require other work practices on the part of the Commission if the law meets its goals. At the present time, a financial committee can simply meet when a new government proposal is published in November and deliver a bill for 2nd districts. Funds to that point are relatively useless. In fact, I have asked the opinion at the branch office that a financial committee will simply be put off, and the financial work will be carried out on a professional committee, where there might be more linking, in effect, to the use of financial resources in the work being controlled by the Ministry. Let's just shift, let's get into the environment, we'll deal with it. Then I mean it as much as I can, no sarcasm there, nothing at all. The current environmental issues appear to be issues, but it seems that each person is concerned about whether or not to deal with them. In view of the best science available to us, we face some facts. The increase in the amount of carbon in the atmosphere is man - made and its warming is also involved. The global community has been reconciled to an average temperature of 1.51⁄2 °C. The global warming will have some effect, but there is nothing we cannot react to, it is considered acceptable changes that certainly need to be handled in some way. There will be changes, though we may be able to stay within this pattern of warming. We're not there yet. We're already seeing signs and indications of these changes. As we get closer to the limit, they may turn on other people's bulbs, and we hope to respond better. The problem we face is that without action the warming will be greater, and the result will be more extensive and expensive, and when we get past the standards that have been reconciled, the consequences will definitely be disastrous. The adjustments and changes we will need to make if we review the criteria that have been reconciled to become enormously expensive. Possible changes include e.g. The acidification of the sea and the change in vegetation, and it affects fish stocks, where agriculture is practiced, how it is moved, and how it has a tremendous impact on agriculture development, for we need food, it is not more complex than that. The warmer seas and higher sea level affect the forces and effects of storms. I went over it a few days ago, how a flood in North Carolina and New Orleans had, 125 million dollars, huge damage. A global flood is simply more common if sea level is rising and seawater is warming. There was one instance of the disaster, indeed a disaster. If you multiply this five times, ten times, over the whole earth and what happens every 10 years, what is a disaster? Various people deny that the change is man - made. Others reject the consequences. Some people criticize government responses because of these issues. Doubts are a good price, but I have seen that the discussion is often mistaken, for although there are examples of consequences of warming today, they are still within a certain temperature swing that can happen naturally. During this discussion, you forget that the goal is to prevent the warming from crossing the swing, over 2°C, because the result is what it is all about. Then there is the government's response to this issue today, a language that is not necessarily urgent for today, but the lack of response will certainly affect future days. Fortunately, in Iceland, we have very good things in these matters. The consequences will probably be mild, I'm trying to be optimistic, and I'm likely to cover a considerable period of time, so I hope that the adjustment will be simple. On the other hand, outside circumstances may be difficult when predicting, for example. Climate refugees are on the move. Although Iceland is an island, Iceland is not an island in world affairs. The indirect effects of climate change will likely be far greater than their direct effects here. It is the way we participate in international climate agreements and therefore live up to commitments. In this way, the responses of the climate authorities have been positive, but the missing are efficient and understandable reactions within the country. Here is the hydrocarbon run, laid for the price, decided to shovel in ditches, and so on, without clearly identifying the results of our commitments. As long as we don't know anything else to do on these projects, we're not working them according to the formula. The management board puts in place a plan that is not successful, not cost-estimating, and starts doing according to the random programme in relation to the budget laid out at the General Assembly. When I contribute money to this climate plan, I don't know what's next. That's why it's random as if I'm it. The priorities of these projects are not presented in a financial programme or in a financial bill. This is not shown in the climate program either. That is why from my viewpoint, it is randomly seen which assignment next comes because I saw it coming. A senator shook his head out here in the hall. While it is certainly impossible to say that we are doing enough to resist our international commitments, it is not possible to accept the use of funds in such a random way. The General Assembly is to know who is expected to be effective on the budget before the warrant is approved. This is the only way to monitor the implementation of budgets and to assess whether funding is better spent on other more efficient projects. How effective we would be, e.g. can be used to provide funding for the studies of carnivore or the nuclear fusion instead of shoveling in a canal? No diagnostics. You see, the horizon has an exciting potential. The sooner we find out what the chance is, the sooner we'll clear out the climate problem. It is never a solution to do nothing, but we must want to achieve the most results as soon as possible. It will only be possible if we adhere to the formula set up by government law, that action is measured in terms of magnitude and success. Here, as well as in all other public projects, professional analysis of the extent must be made before deciding how to proceed. It's just that way. I suggest a few adjustments to the bill, as mentioned earlier. At first, all the expenses related to church and laboratory research are laid down. [[Foreground on:]] Get them out of here. Acquisitions, church contracts, everything. Life - examination companies can simply collect their own dues. As the Farming Association used to do here, that was recently changed. Very good example. Let's just do it again, really clever. We've done it before, let's do it again. But all I leave behind is the Bishop's office, which I consider to be a fulfillment of 62 st. The Constitution for the protection and support of the State Church. I remember there's 266 million in total, i.e. Bishop and 18 employees and stuff like that. On the other hand, a personal discount is raised on the same amount as expected in the terms of parish charges or under 1,000 dollars. per month. I also suggest that a damaged person's discount be paid out regardless of income. It simplifys the entire process of tax and taxation, and this operation is useful to very young people who usually do not have income to make full use of personal discounts. It may be very encouraging not to work with study, making the study much more efficient and less expensive, and so forth, for all this national production that some would like to count. It reduces the need for student loans. The estimated cost for this is about 10.5 billion, as indicated by the financial and economic secretary's response to my inquiry at the 148th legislature. I also suggest that the U.S. Councilman receive 30 million. K. bill for two status values to conduct the initiative. There is an overwhelming lack. I also contribute 550 million to the research fund and 550 million to the Technical Development Fund to achieve a higher share share of these funds. At present, it is shamefully low, and we are simply losing innovation tools because we're snooping around in this field. It is then convenient to point out these slightly over 700 million who disappeared from the innovation because of some algorithm, were not put in what they were supposed to go because there was something wrong. Instead of putting them into another innovation, they just disappeared. That's ridiculous. I also assume that there is no long-lost fishing fees in which I suggest to raise long-term fishing costs for 1 billion dollars. I suggested one trillion first but received a comment from a committee field that said that this number did not fit into the box. It had to be 1 billion. Finally, I propose a $7.4 billion to eliminate a dollar in return from earning a pensioner's disability. Not little, but as with all these adjustments, there is an absolute basis for reasonableness. Just at the end. Vogon, an early poem about Vogona, is an example of a certain warlike government in which tradition is the key and nothing has been changed. It's just a little bit more paperwork. There's the budget today, exactly as it used to be, except for more paperwork and nothing else is moving. We have new laws on public financial matters. If they were followed, we would no longer be Vogonar. We need to break out of the old tradition based on another environment and make up this fine proposal that is in the law on public financial matters on how we can do better for the future. We simply need to stop being Vogons, stop being Bears in Summer Houses. I realized, when I was considering this context, that a Bjartur í Sumarhús House is our country Vogon. He didn't want to change, just want to be with his sheep in his own box, and destroy everything around him in that stubbornness. There, I believe the financial work is at the moment. I really want to get out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u88	Mr. President. I read with the attention of the committee's opinion. paritaprevir The Leví of Gunnarsson, who listened to his speech, has to say that I don't really feel like anything. [[Up front.]] I can't figure out which political policy the Pirantars put in here when we deal with economic and government issues. For example, what is it? Pirata's attitude toward how we are dealing with a decline in the economy today? Then, let's talk about it. A senator some adjustment proposals that certainly reflect certain politics. I'm not going to belittle it, and we respect each other's political emphasis in this room, but reading this committee opinion leads to great disappointment, for I have a job to do in preparing the budget and the activities of the General Assembly in a way that differs from that text. I just can't say what's wrong with what. A senator and all he can say is that we who work on a budget get the best information at any given time. I want it to be expressed in my answer to what's happened. A senator that I don't share the views he has spoken to and that I feel a little beamed out of the committee's opinion. On the other hand, we can have a political disagreement, and he enters a popular church meeting with the nation church that I would like later to answer to the question. A senator will take a closer look, but he will start by asking why. Senator, who's the economic politics of Pirata?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u89	A respectable president. I understand that very well. A senator doesn't understand this because we just have different politics. Independence does not seem to have begun to recognize the urgency of the times in this regard. Pirantics pursue professionalism, it's as simple as that. As far as economic policy is concerned, I can say that there is something being done in the right direction of the budget right now. There is an effort to take encouraging action on the economy. I'm not going to argue with our policy. There are emphasis that can go on and on details that can be done differently, etc., it's all right to argue, but in general, I have nothing especially to examine, and especially because the budget is transparent. Then I can't dig down on the profit analysis and say, " Here's a task that's just extremely troublesome to go into now. ' That is why I can criticize the fact that there are about $3.3 billion in the construction of a new hospital because we know that the analysis behind it has a benefit analysis for the hospital. It would be much greater if the hospital was elsewhere, since the location of myself is ineligible, so I can criticize it. There's a particular transparency, which makes it possible to criticize accurate politics, and that's how I want to do it. I don't want to do politics because I have to guess the numbers back and forth. I understand why. A senator will experience this differently. I think it's a tiny sign of a certain composition, I'm going to use that word, with a previous budget, a budget, and a show of honor in doing financial work. True, it has changed a bit, but in all its basics it is really exactly the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u90	Mr. President. In this short answer, I understood more in Polish Pirata in economic matters than in the earlier talk. But that's enough. Hv. A senator has criticized an agreement with the National Church, and with me and with him. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's wife, who has been given an assignment within the financial committee, has agreed to do so. I'm going to start by protesting. In his introduction earlier, a senator argued that there had been no clear answer. We received visitors from the Ministry of Justice, and their answers were very clear. They focused on three things: a change that occurred because of changing the law of discretion, the requisition of the personnel of the National Church, and the commitment of the agreement to public finance - this was the core of this criticism - and then a revised law. I just wanted to say that I agreed. paritaprevir The son of Leví of Gunnarsson in this group of people, I believe, received very clear answers that I completely consented to. [[The president calls.]] I'll leave it with a what? A senator, in his later reply: Does he believe that satisfying answers have not been received? [[The president calls.]] I'm not in that place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u91	A respectable president. Yes, there were answers and explanations, but to the basic question of the church meeting and its grounds, commitment, and possession, there were no answers. I'm in that place. The fundamental question of the church meeting. We're still doing the same thing there. It is understandable that there is a need for an additional meeting because the old agreement was based on a recommendation that no longer exists, very understandable, no problem, a good explanation there. But as for the basics of the arrangement, we are still in exactly the same place. It simply requires making a decision to do something, to stop interrupting such things as financial matters, and to start doing things in a clear, professional, and clear way that does not violate public financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u92	Mr. President. I've read the committee's opinion. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, listened to his speech and must admit that I do not understand the political language as well. A senator speaks for himself. Besides, I'm not much closer to her after he talks and what. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, in reply. I can certainly hear it. A senator calls for a better cost-and-improvement analysis, but I don't quite figure out what it is that the Senator intends to do with it if he has no political vision or an excuse for sledgehammer, Mr. President--what he intends to do with these costs and benefits. Hv. A senator speaks of the absence of politics by such analyses. But I want to turn it around. You have to have some political bitch in order to take advantage of that diagnosis. I've tried to dive in and find them politics here. Hv. A senator spoke of a mello economic system a verse of shallow progress, so I would like to ask: " Is it the bread - crumbling theory? A senator is referring to, i.e. that the bites break from the rich and down to the poor? And I'd like to ask, " How can it be opposed to ideas about basic progress? ' The basic point is to lull on everyone evenly, as I have at least one. fully understood based progress, and is really the same as shown in the transitional process. A senator's work on a person's discount. I don't see how these actions will set aside money for those who have less in the community. [[The president calls.]] That's why I want to pray. A senator to explain this because I just don't understand that political bitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u93	A respectable president. Yeah, there are other people who don't understand the politics. It's no surprise to me again. Hv. A senator does not seem to understand the cost-and-employment analysis. Maybe if she was in front of her head. A senator would make value such an analysis to help him explain it. The city line project and transport work in the capital area can be taken as an example. It is based on cost-and-exploitation analysis, the analysis helps to choose which way is most practical, which way is best for people, not just costably but also biologically, as I spoke about in the economy. We then have a clear possibility in front of us that we can choose from. That's where the politics come from. Not by guessing. I'm not there. As for the bread loaf theory and basic progress, basic progress and the implementation of personality discount would certainly benefit the number one worst in recent years, i.e. Young people. According to figures presented in the book of Proverbs, it is obvious that in recent years, young people have been blessed with greatly improved compensation and quality of life. There, young people have lost quality of life in excess of other groups, lost. Not only were other groups properly treated but they were lost. How much young people could remember receiving the support that comes from a personal discount! There is an enormous strength for education, and there is tremendous strength in not having to start life in debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u94	Mr. President. Achieving something in the community and in the sense of profit must take into account. A senator mentioned a city line. I think it's a good example - but we don't want a city line, too, because we want to reach other goals, to form in climates? Is it not, then, really a step toward achieving changes and impacts in order to stop climate change? I felt somewhat disappointed, as I felt that certain suspicions toward the reality of climate change in speech were real. Senator. He gave a little bit of room for it. [[The president calls.]] I want to know if I'm getting the wrong idea. [[The president calls.]] Pirates are sure that climate change is real, aren't they?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u95	A respectable president. Well, then I guess. A senator listening to my speech again. I made that very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u96	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u97	Yes, I made it very clear in the chapter on the environmental challenges and challenges we face, and we need to focus on that. I made it very clear that it was human carbon growth and that the warming it was linked to was also caused by humans. There is no doubt about it. I took note of the critical voices heard in the community and the skeptics, which are based on very misunderstandings, and I tried to explain why they are based on a major misunderstanding. With regard to city lines and climate change, we've heard criticism of going to city lines, etc., it's a lot of criticism, but it's just the cost and profit analysis that shows black in whites that it's the solution, not somebody else, not increasing lanes for the private car, etc. Then we will no longer be making decisions on what is best but on information and data about what is best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. I can't say that I can agree with a lot of things this time in my speech. Senator. I could pick a few things up. It is not readily available, especially in the front of the talk and in the members of a committee party, to read a little respect for the work the senators and employees did. It's hard work on the budget. Anyway, I don't think so. A senator in certain cases, both in speech and in a committee party, dance on a pretty fine line when it comes to it. Of course, I do not agree that we are in the budget not working in harmony with the framework of public funds. It's a policy process. Hv. A senator so solemnly talks about cost-and-imaging. I can agree with that. A senator's concern is that the costs and benefits of the decision - making process are key to the decision - making process. That's when I'm saying that. A senator is not setting the best example when he takes 3,500 million at the Hospital because of his design. It is very wise to be careful not to throw away - because it is a cost assessment of certain tasks and tasks. But I don't know what to expect. A senator, when it is a offset of projects from those holding on to the project, from the Ministry of finance, and into the council, that a financial committee simply puts open authority? Sometimes you have a problem yourself. A senator used this wording, open - minded. I doubt she should set an open source when it is not needed because it is only one year at a time, and it has nothing to do with cost- and profit analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u99	A respectable president. That was interesting. I definitely admit that as time passes, I become pessimistic, and the tone may change as the content is really the same. This is a offset for the funding of a new hospital, and I made it clear. What indicates that this offset works? There will be increased stress in later years, and greater pressures give rise to more mistakes. It's just that way. What I specifically criticized is that it enters $3.3 billion. delay, actually, revocation of funds for this time, but it wasn't explained. [[Up front.]] Not sufficiently. They just said there'd be delays. I've heard that before. I've heard this excuse before that there's delays in financial plans for nursing homes, etc., but you don't get any konskot unless there's a delay. There are no data in the back. That's why cost-and-improvement analysis is exactly what counts. It's been a while since I've been digging. How can you delay 3.5 billion? How can additional projects be made in the following years, but not now? There was no explanation. That's what I'm critical of. If all plans go through, it's cool, please, let's do it this way. Is it possible to get further work done in the years that follow, or can it not? On what basis? Nothing like that. That's what I'm critical of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's fine, if I understand why. The senator was correct, to illustrate this as a matter of course. A senator is not taking the cost-and-exploitation analysis but the time information. [[Up front.]] That's where it's at. When such a huge project is delayed, there is a great deal of concern, but there is no need to mean that it will not be successful in the programme time and that we have received information about it and what is suggested. I was going back to ask about the big economic picture. I've put it this way, we've received confirmation that government policy and money policy are working in the same direction as the state-of-the-art political policy designed to promote resistance in the economy and here we're giving up the rest, leaving the money in the economy. I'm asking for a second's opinion. A senator on that course, and it's measured in crowns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u101	A respectable president. To be honest, I can do a lot of nice things about it, and my new proposals are spinning like that. about that, too, an increase in personality discounts and reimbursement is a reduction in taxation from similar injury. What you may be most critical of is that there is a problem with which one is behind it. So, "How much can you actually bend when the economic situation changes? ' Are we overexploiting ourselves in irreversible payment bonds? Several types of analyses are missing. From my point of view, it works again, like a certain guess. Yeah, it's good to lower taxes on this year's trip, and it's good to raise your expenses for this year's trip. But that is not an entirely spontaneous, obvious solution. It needs to be objective in a certain way. There, cost-and-benefit analysis is required on the basis of our choice of spending. [[The president calls.]] The minister of finance spoke very clearly about this. There may be additional expenses if there is a benefit analysis in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u102	A respectable president. The financial bill for 2020 continues to reflect the actual will of the government in order not to improve the terms of those who are lazy in society. The need for improvement in terms of increased well - being is not intended. Pensions will remain in the cold. The secretary of finance is reporting a broad change in the tax system, but when it comes to checking, it gives them a small amount of dollars in the low-payer's pocket. The rate of consumption taxes and product expenditures should not be adjusted and the bank tax should be reduced over the next few years. This is not the priority of money for the people. Iceland's National Organization predicts that economic growth will be 1.7% in 2020. It is 0.9% less economic growth than the projections on which a bill was based. Because of this, it appears that the income will be considerably lower than expected in the bill. The majority of the budget committees have proposed changes to the bill for funding due to the changed preservation. Four billion dollars to be taken. from the savings fund of Icelandic students, the wealth that was to be used in education but will be used instead to reduce the compromise of the state's fund. Instead, budgets will be given to lend education as much as 5 billion dollars. in the year. This should not be done by raising income or building expenses but by placing your hand in the savings box. It further enhances the holding of the state funds that the construction of a new hospital has been delayed. Thus, expenses for the project will be 3.5 billion dollars. under-established in the bill for financial purposes. The estimated contribution of the state funds to the EU's framework of education, research and technological development is reduced by 700 billion. K. This is due to overassessment of the need for money in previous programmes. The bill for financing estimated that the contribution of the State to these projects would increase by over 1.1 billion. Hence, there has been a significant change in the estimated budget for the seminary. This is attributable to an aggressive misdemeanor, which describes the unprecedented lack of interest in the treatment of public funds. In this context, I'd like to point out that 700 million. K. which were overcalculated, there's nothing to do with innovation or anything else. They're just gone, but thanks to our best. Education minister, however, that this algorithm was to be revealed in time because it was made out in Brussels. When suddenly it seemed that there was an increase of almost 30% in the lawsuit party between years, it seemed to be a bit crooked. The plans for changing automobile taxation and special waste tax will be delayed. There's less than a quarter of them. The car owner's taxes are already on the highest level, and they do not improve. It is also evident that taxes on waste disposal would lead to increased waste management costs, and the cost would be more severe for the poorest in the community. There is concern that the estimated revenue of the state's budget of hunting costs will be 2.1 billion. Less next year than expected when the budget was submitted in the fall. Is this another example of smiling at the foundation of the budget? The fish stocks in Iceland are one of the nation's major resources and use of it should pay a fair price. A smaller section shows that there is a reason to be alert to the decline of the fishing road next year, with the expected loss of income and even expenses for the state's funds. There is always a chance that next year no hairy fishing will be practiced, and it is the second year that no such fishing will be on this longest of the nation's secondest fish stock. That's a really bad situation. The deep and sustained downturn of the hairy stock may then adversely affect the growth and survival of other fish species, such as cod. The economic impact of such a thing for the sake of a government fund could be poor. All of this, though, is very uncertain at present. In spite of the changes made by a greater proportion of legal committees, it is estimated that government funds will be expelled at a surly angle. When the government produced financial programs and revised financial policies in our spring, many expressed concern that governments were being tailored too narrow. Now they're really worried. The Hall is there, and hopefully it will be no more than the material in the financial bill available here. Before we go any further, since I've started all the things I'm picking here, which may be just part of what I don't feel is enough to do, I want to thank you. The budget for good cooperation with the management of the bill. It's been a lot of work, and we try to keep it as best we can. Even if there is something to change, we may do it only in time. I would also like to point out that much of the budget bill is appreciated. One particularly appears right now will be useful to the community of the latrines and I want to call it the gift of Christmas. Although it is not large, it is still a Christmas gift and probably cost a government sum of over 200 million to give it a gift. There will be only one payment for those who accept a salary from your social security at 10,000 bucks. At Christmas, in addition to December, tax-inadequate work. That's to be respected, and this is to be done. There are other factors that have been successful. Among these, I must talk about our hard - paying down taxes, and that certainly results in our own happiness. What a great crowd have talked about, will continue, and was founded on is putting people in first place, fighting poverty, trying to keep them in line for the sake of the people. A group of people have proposed changes in their minority mind. There is no cost of the change in the budget for raising taxes. We are always talking about changing the priorities of money, and if there is a will, it can always be taken directly from the employees and the citizens' pockets. I'd like to mention the estimated decrease in bank tax to less than eight billion dollars. Is this the right time, Mr. Honorable President? [[Up front.]] I said--for you, what. A senator who's snooping around on the side of the side, I said, "Foreseeing." If you would answer, please, but this time I have become, with all due respect. Along with a financial bill, finance minister introduced changes to the tax system. In recent years the tax burden of low income groups has increased greatly. This is a condition to be resolved by reorganising the income tax system. People's party has suggested an increase in tax limit and the acceptance of a so - called falling personality discount. This would increase the provision of low - income groups. This means that when a person exceeds a certain pay limit we believe is when he falls to the higher tax steps, the highest steps, the high - income steps, he has nothing to do with a personal discount but that he should transfer the discount to those who need him. A financial minister, on the other hand, contributes to slight changes in tax steps. These changes don't go far enough. According to information from the financial secretary's bill, provision of income, e.g. an individual of 300,000 k. monthly remuneration is only increased by 2,470 k. in the year 2020. So he needs to collect for two months so he can order a pizza. The other half must look terrible if they are going to try to balance the benefits together in the complete of your brain when the tax reduction doesn't give this person any more than we can say, not 2500 a month, in 2020. It has been said that the project has been accelerated at the third tax level so that it will be fully installed in 2021 instead of the year 2022. It will be fun to see how much this is going to pay for those who are about to enjoy it, when the government will have put all the taxes and all the penalty planned for the inhabitants of the country in the near future. It will be worth the attention of a respectable president to see the results of that. A minority of four feels that the proposed changes in the income tax system are not sufficient to correct the increased tax burden of underpayers and thus ensure a satisfactory standard of living. I'm going to get to the health care system. It must take effort to promote the management and management of the health system. Hospital emergency conventions cannot cope with the pressures it faces. We've got a lot of work to do. Daily, the number of patients who cannot be referred to appropriate measures due to space loss or lack of resources. A problem in emergency care, however, is only the most serious form of publication of the vast health - care problem today. The equipment needs to be replaced, increased staff, improved housing, and improved in all areas of the medical system. Then there is a great increase in the use of medical transportation. There should be an ambulance, along with professional orderlies in each area. We're not to be discriminated against after we've settled down. We should not wait anymore simply because we choose to live with our feet somewhere in a small rural society in the country, waiting for our first help and medical care. At least make sure that there are professionals in the area who can provide the first help and first service before a doctor arrives or an ambulance. It is more painful than tears to see what the situation is all about. The construction process of a new hospital is slow. It is not surprising, however, that governments chose to build a new hospital where traffic is the largest priority in the capital area. I don't know what it's like from day to day, but today it's almost impossible to find a parking lot or get to a doctor if you have to go to a hospital at a State Hospital on Ring Road. It's almost impossible, since, of course, parking lots are reserved for employees when they come to work in the morning. There's no place left for the patients, at least not the situation today. There is no doubt that the project would have gone much slower than it would have been if a new hospital had been built in a new location. In terms of contractors and organizations that are involved in building and such things, they say: We are much longer because everything that goes away is required to drive as close as we can. Explosions, everything, no matter what it is, are more expensive, less efficient and slow, and perhaps would be a reason for the government to look around before it will have rid us of all the property we have around the capital area to build a possible hospital in a new place soon thereafter and perhaps camp them for more than five or something. There would be reason for a good earmark to be chosen for a new hospital in due time, and sooner than later. A greater proportion of legal committees suggest an increase of 600 million in medical services. A dollar. At least a section of the report suggests that there is a greater need for financial improvement in the topic field to improve the health of the health system. It is quite clear, and it has been noted that this is the time for maintaining operations at the Land Hospital at a ◯ university hospital. My conversation with medical staff and nurses suggests that more people are now forbidden to be hired, it's just stopped. It's cannibal, but at the same time, it's not for financial support. They just say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's called saving the money and throwing it away if the men are so much more and less alert because they always have to call out people for a much higher salary than if the people were simply hired there. It is estimated to cut down now, that is the maintenance of a Land Hospital of over 3.5 billion, and that is not enough. On whom? The operators at the hospital are doing so themselves, naturally according to the demands from here because they have advanced their budget. Can anyone think that if we cut down $3.3 billion from the standard they do on their own, it won't take on the patients? At least I can't think of that. To further this, we simply have to put our hands together, and we say that there will be an increase of 5 billion dollars in the subject field. We also add 4th to a reduced portion to 400 million. K. go to promote medical transportation and provide quality of life and security for the people in the country. I'm going to talk about microbubble issues. That's the topic group we've been talking about in the Gang of the People. There are elderly, poorer, low - incomeers, victims of pain. It is clear that the pensions of social security have not been up to pay in the country for the past few years. If you take it into account in the past decade, this 30% accounts for your cumulative jaw condition. Once again, the bent banks can be turned more, once more, where they went, and yet here it is said that there probably never again was as much compensation as anyone who pays from public security and aquifers today. A fine senator here spoke of 11% rather than a 17% rise since 2017, but the fact is that in 2009 they were affected, like everyone else in the community after a collapse. They were also allowed to take responsibility for the unprecedented difficult conditions then existing in the community. However, strangely, despite the promise, this would certainly be corrected, corrected, corrected, and refurbished when the valley began to bloom again, nothing has been done. It was 2017 that the poor and those who accept money from social security got an increase of 7.5%. Since then, they have only followed a so - called consumer science, so it is now estimated that they will increase by 3.5% by the next year. When you're talking about that the index is probably going to go down to 3.2%, I wondered if they're going to lower this rise also to 3.2% and shun that portion of 69.g. Social security legislation, which includes pay and the benefits of those who accept pay from social security, should follow general pay development in this country number one. There is no intention in the budget to correct this apparent injustice that 30% of integrity is involved in those who accept money from social security. I'm not used to putting my talk in print, but I have to do it now so that I don't want to be alone, but I always do it. It's supposed to go up this social security pension, as I previously pointed out, about 3.5% next year. It's an increase that is lower than the development of the remuneration number, which was like my point - I don't know how much it was, than the Economics account shows it was 4.2%, so instead of trying to correct it, it was still a bit of an improvement in the quality of my mind. For the past few years, the microengineering alliance has repeatedly criticized this arrangement. Only in the bill does the budget show how much social security money should be raised, but not why. A member of the General Assembly has pointed out that governments need to be more aware of the purpose of the social security law in terms of the criteria to serve and to make it clearer. At the same time, the U.S. legislature agent points out that it would be more in harmony with careful administrative practices that more detailed explanations were in a financial bill on the basis of changes in the amount of pensions. This recommendation must be respected in the budgets of the coming year so that pension workers can discern on the basis of the government's decision to deviate from the demands of social security. It is not surprising that in this dignified speaker's office, you give attention to careful administrative procedures. The government has just had to pung out of 5.4 billion dollars. ... becauseof a missing court case in which a group of people came by surprise on the behalf of older citizens to test the alleged legality considered when affected in January and February 2017 because of the payment of a pension fund. It was illegal. It is hard to believe that anyone could justify making the law down to the fact that the legislaturer had three discussions at the High Council overlooking the fault, the evil that existed in the Order, where it simply lacked the concept of cutting down from a pension fund. It was just gone out. However, at the High General Assembly, only Piratars tried to resist the challenge, pointing out that this could not be true. The fact is, it doesn't matter who gets paid. It was 29,000 older citizens who were paid according to the court order, an average payment of some 190,000. The fact is, the law was broken, it doesn't matter how much each got and whether half of it was a millionaire. Anyone who knows that a person with over 570. A pension fund can't get a dollar from the government's insurance agency. A great many older citizens do not even apply for pensions from the State Department of Insurance because they believe that they are in the good aluminum. It's certainly worth it and the need for us to show careful administrative practices here, so we procrastinate our legislation, so we don't reimburse and have to pay back all the money we would have wanted to spend on something else. In its review of the budget bill, Iceland's Department of Development notes that there has been no increase in income markets since 2009. That's right. Then it was raised to 109,600 bucks. and it's still there. Ten years later, it's still 109,600 bucks. However, if the income market had followed pay development, it would now be less than twice as high, i.e. 207,000 bucks. per month. If an individual possibly realizes that he or she is not limited to going out of the apartment and sneezing toward work, would he be motivated to try at a job market? That's exactly the way it is now. A low-of-the-free target is reducing the interest of pensioners to work, that's just a fact. No matter where it comes to the matters of disability, their issues are flushed and have been for years, as is the worst, according to a report that we received from the North American Community. The Department of Micro-Screates allowed Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson to work on a report of disability, and it clearly reveals what their real situation is. Who are the ones to be raised to 101.71 percent of children in this world who are experiencing a measure of lack? It doesn't take a sharp brain to imagine where that greater thing comes from. To simplify and simplify its effectiveness, it is aimed at implementing changes in the social security system. Great. It is important to make sure that the interaction of rights is not as complex and complicated as it is today. It is difficult for people to rely on payment from an excessive number of rights, all of which have different rules and conditions. This system is simply so that only the most skilled experts are able to recognize it in this system whether they are coming or going. I can't believe we're inviting people to this, that we can't take this system and simplify it properly so that at least... The legislators themselves understand how the law is setting when it comes to patching up this system of social security. We now recommend that 10 billion dollars be placed immediately. in the social security system. Then we will try to show by our actions that we mean it, that we are ready to try to beat the cleverness that we have deliberately brought upon this group of people. What would it be better to do this in the next few years or to reduce the bank tax by 8 billion and just take it out or lower the price of fishing? How could anyone think that the lawgiver could not have produced such legislation in connection with hunting costs that we are not now seeing it between 1 and 2. about the budget bill that the criteria are slightly different? It's so good that she's been working on something new and so on. It's great, but the system offers that the more you buy, the more you do, the less you show, the less you pay. We did better than that by the new law, by our separate fishing and processing. The result? Yes, instead of having a freezer leader and something like that, working the fish aboard and freezing it there, ice fish are being made up in the process as the same developer. He runs both the fishing and the processing, but what he takes out of the water is something of value. Once he takes it ashore and turns it into something else, it is no longer our concern. To argue that we should have no further share in anything that comes out of the sea that is more painful than tears. In recent years, we have seen tens of billions of people paying for their money. I'm not going to mention a man with a name, a very nice developer who took $3.3 billion. In their pocket last year, they've bought in most companies. Where did this developer get so much money? Where would this wise person get all the money? Yes, from our common resource, the sea resources. In recent years, we see the cost paid over 110 billion. Why, then, can we not say that it must be natural for us who own the resource to receive something similar for its use? In fact, we have been adversely affected in general. She's being taken care of. We can't overfish it. We have goodbyes, we say we're exemplary, we have the best system in the world. Although we have employment rights and other services in a constitution, people might as well have permission. Everyone doesn't go out fishing, it's a clean line. There are only certain individuals who get to hunt. They take to themselves from the resource much more than fair and natural is compared to what we get from letting them into the resource, as we do. When I say I wanted 10 billion for social security right away, I'd like to say, "Preparing money for the people first and last, for the people who especially need it." Let's talk about MPA. We were happy, all of us agreed that it was good and necessary. We meet people who really need service and help, people who are so disabled, who are so desperate that they cannot help themselves. It's our job to help them. Great. We put a reservation on the system. Not everyone who needs, the ones selected. When serving as disabled persons in the rural community, they were added to the taxpaying of the State in the form of an elevated answer. The objective was that the extra cost of rural society would be increased because of this need for service. Actually, there was another. Experience shows that the cost of the ministry is far more than the increase in income that was due to secure its services. According to Reykjavíkurburg's comments on budgets, the collection of the city's losses for the 2011 service year has now reached 11 billion dollars. and is increasing years from year to year. Farmers don't have the same opportunity for earning money as public. So legal funding must be ensured when delegating from state to country. An increased responsibility was laid upon the rural population when new user - controlled laws were adopted last year. Along with this law, the State did not accept any financing. Rather, the responsibility was placed upon the rural communities. It violates the principle that services to disabled people are financial guarantees. In its review to the budget bill, the Microcracy Association emphasizes that NPA is an important service that has caused revolution in the quality of life of disabled people. The funding of the ministry must be ensured in a practical way. A fourth small section agrees with this, and we suggest that financial clearances to the topic area be increased by 150 million. K. Costs spent to increase the share of the state funds in the budgeting of the NAPA agreements. It is our responsibility to ensure that all who need access to the ministry are free of discrimination. I think there's about 130 more than 140 people who need MPA services. Thus, 90 are left for those who need the ministry but do not receive it. It's called in my language complete discrimination, and it's under government command. Let's stop taxing disability. A group of people have provided a bill that includes decommissioning a valuable tax on relief tools because of disability. Under this rule, the National Institute of Environment in the United States will take charge of the financial bill. It is certainly enough to live with disability, although the government does not tax it as well. The quality of life of many people will be greatly improved by decommissioned valuables tax. People say, "People first, we put the people in first place." The sooner the people realize it, the better. I also say that in a drug crisis, I need to promote A.D. Who hasn't heard me talk about the disasters that happen today in the community? There is a drug epidemic in this country. Every five days an Icelander dies from drug poisoning or because he has taken his own life. Is this acceptable? Is it not possible that we could do better than this? Do we have to watch this? There must be something we can do. It's taken more than 150 pounds of drugs for the first eight months of the year. During the first eight months of the year, drugs were more busy, than they did last year. It seems to run safely into the country. It is believed that the police and the law can confiscate only about 10% of the circulating substances. What does that mean? That means we're looking up at 2.4 tons of drugs running around the street and in the public square. Where does it hit? The young, the most sensitive people, our children. We're losing our bounty, our people die untimely death around us. It is long time for us to face this, and that is what we should talk about every day. Things are unprecedented. Never in Icelandic history have more died untimely because of drug poisoning than has today. Nowhere in the world is the use of antidepressants like this. The drug is a disease that we need to accept without prejudice. All sufferers have the right to receive medical care immediately. So it is not surprising that hundreds of sick patients, together, should wait for medical care. In recent years much of its activity has had to be paid for by self - resources. Why? Because the government's service contract with the organization is paying for 1,530 contracts a year. FIE has included 2,200 patients per year. The money pays for the discrepancy. In SOUTH they say that if 2,700 patients a year had a ball volume and support to do so, they could spend less than a half of a year spending the waiting list in the Gug, which counts as high as 800 patients. A further four-quarterly smaller items suggest an increase in financial resources to 25,20, on rehabilitation services, including the use of smokeunda and rehabilitation in general, by 400 million. K. and that there will also be more donations for the European Union. We are grateful to be on the budget with the increase we received in the budget last year, but we, the lawgiver, thought we were meeting the waiting list. We actually believed that we were really putting this money to reduce the waiting list to the Vig, but somehow something else happened. Still, it is useful in fighting the addiction, but now it is good to look at the whole thing, to see the seriousness of society, to see the human resources we are missing. We need to help our young people, our addicts, the alcoholics. We've got to try to get inside right away, have an early intervention. The younger we catch them, the better the better the better chance of getting them into life, into society. We need to give them hope. We're supposed to show that we're on their side. We should show that we are not prejudiced. We're supposed to admit the disease they're dealing with. We're supposed to promote them to action, that's what we're supposed to do. There's a long wait and a problem in the nursing homes. [[President (BrH): I'm sorry, but... Senator, the President has a slight problem. We are only out of the program. May the president ask if what? A senator has much to do with his speech? We're wondering if it would be okay to take a break. Talked in 20 minutes of time.]] A respectable president. I have something left, yes, but you may take a break. [[President (BrH): In any way, would we take a break for dinner and then continue with our speech and answers in half an hour?]] No, no. I might calm down a little. True, though, I break loose. I've been having a lot of fun, but it's okay, it's just fine. [[President (BrH): Thank you. Then we'll stop at this conference until the end of the day. Then, at 8:30, let us continue with a talk. A senator who has 20 minutes left.]] There may be only five of them. You see, I'm kind of almost done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u103	A respectable president. It's a little confusing. I don't know exactly where to start, but I'm thinking about turning to the nurses' problems. I think I'm falling into the place where we disappeared before we took this short break and started talking about a long wait and was after saving a nursing home. A health minister has taken action to try to overcome the problem. The action, however, lies in the growing number of nurses who have had unexpected consequences. Not only was it a matter of building a new room but it was also a deliberation to redefined living space as a nursing home. In recent years, the number of habitats has fallen substantially. There are also plenty of space available in the country's nursing homes, which can be attributed to several factors. It takes about as much to run a hospital room as it takes to run two quarters. Thus, when two living spaces are reassigned as a medical space, only one household can provide appropriate services, for which there is no funding for providing service in the other space. In these last few years, the demands for nursing have increased. Also, nursing homes are much weaker now than before, for example. Ten years. The reasons can be considered. attributed to waiting for admission is longer than before. So people have grown weaker when they get into a nursing home. Financial contributions have not increased, consistent with what may be called an increased weight of nursing. Hence, funding is not sufficient for the required service. Organizational organisations in welfare services, below the SFV, point to this in their review of the budget that the government's annual budget for the management of hospital nurses, e.g. in the Vifilas, in 2019, 50,000 were studied. However, this has not been enough for the household's management, but a day's expenses for nursing homes based on a frame deal with Iceland's Medical Insurance in 2019 were only 35,000. Each sane person sees that when the cost of a person is estimated to be 50,000 dollars. and then we're through contracts with health insurance $35,000. It's about 15,000 bucks. daily for each individual. Thus, the State's contributions to nursing are considerably lower than the money the State considers necessary to live up to similar services on his own. Then the government requires that the nursing staff be maintained. MNU points out that because of the budget requirements, the State will ultimately pay 1.3 billion dollars. a small amount of money for nursing and day - to - day arrangements during 2018-2020 season. At such times, nursing homes find it difficult to work, and employees look for better - paying jobs. Who doesn't know the story of a nursing home? A young woman who works full - time gets paid $200,000,200,000. per month. She's a single mother with a little girl. She rents 40 m2 hole at 150,000 bucks. In a month, each of them realizes that it is absolutely impossible for this young woman to give her child anything. People like that crawl from day to day. The problem of nursing homes is complex, and MNV has repeatedly criticized the government's policy to attack the development of new nursing homes rather than to secure the better foundations of the existing ones. 4th smaller things agree with that criticism. It is delirium to intend to fix the problem with nurses growing if there is no money to run them, as if we were looking at the high - quality facilities that were opened with good minds, good intentions, and ambitions by health ministers on Seltiannes, but we could use only half of the space because of their lack of character. A minimum of four items suggest an increase of about 2 billion dollars in nursing facilities, the budget of 25,10. to come as I have spoken before to meet the problem of nursing homes today. I can't let it pass for me to mention government grants to special media. The Minister of Education and Culture is planning to strengthen the private media by 400 million. K. next year. When a limp is on the treasure store, the goal of strengthening rich people who keep out the media - related and at the expense of the taxpayers - was to be strong. The first step, if we wanted to support the media and give them a better chance of the market, would be to take the state mediat RUS out of a commercial market rather than to add everyone else to the money. Thus, a fourth lower share suggests that the budget estimated to be restored to the group of liters. This is 400 billion. K. which was planned to support the media, and that is exactly the same amount as 3 billion. K. ... as we're currently dealing with the local law. There are also tens of millions left at the National Reservation. A total of this decrease was estimated to be less than 480 billion. K. It is pure indistinguishable. At the same time, we're talking about a massive force for law enforcement. As I mentioned in the first part of my talk, we are now dealing with one of the most devastating accidents ever faced by the United States by drug epidemics and organized crime. The government is responsible for two aspects of the world here, a universal order and for the safety of its citizens. Even so, the situation in the crime and drug world here has never been so serious. Inexhaustible drugs flow into the country at unknown levels, and organized crime has taken root here. This situation, as I say, is absolutely unprecedented. In order to resist this catastrophe, it takes even. to further the initiative law. This requires extra funding from the police. We need to increase the number of police officers, certainly no less than 200. Therefore, a 4th-mind contributes to an increase of 2 billion dollars in law-enforcement funds. Finally, I'd like to mention funding for increased well - being. Improvements to the welfare system are required. But they must be financed. A group of people have suggested that local payment be paid, not on payment, but on a pension fund. This change would provide a wealth of money without compromising the contribution of the citizens. Those funds would be sufficient to pass the balance of a government budget now estimated to be over 9 billion. and would be enough to finance a 4th-to-the-half-implement change proposal better than that. However, the people's party is not in the government, unfortunately for the people we put in the first place, the people. Then it is unlikely that the solutions we have here will be taken care of and followed. Instead, the state funds will be expelled at a value of 9.4 billion. Do it now. The government will continue to hang on a system of evil things that few people understand, or none of them. Sick, old people are not allowed access to nursing homes, governments tax poverty cruelly, and detract from the weak. One hundred and twenty-five percent of children here suffer a degree of lack. There is no basic need for the city, lack of food, clothing, and shelter. The failure of the government is complete in spite of severe subjugation and a demand for greater justice for those whose income is much below the poverty limit. Ironically, at the same time the government boasts of unprecedented good. As I've said before, and yet it's useful not to everyone, it's only useful to some, but at the same time, poor people are denied justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for an excellent speech. I can agree with much of what she covered. However, she discussed several cases and came, even. into the tax system and the tax system changes and tax returns that apply to income taxes of individuals. I heard a talk coming from you. A senator that she did not love the changes that appear to us here and are in relation to biographies that will take two years to fully introduce. I'd like to keep it up, as we look at it from the economic point of view, that we're adding taxes to our income. Hv. A senator pulled out the figures for increased provisional income, but when the measures are fully accomplished, provision measures will be taken because this is directed directly towards the lower income especially by a new additional step, increasing by 70,000 to 120,000 (U.S.)000. for income between 325,000 and 600,000. I thought why. A senator minimizes these changes. We leave, when this is fully accomplished, 21 billion in the economy, with the people of the country. In the economic situation that exists, we have measures to provide resistance in the economy against the expected improvement in economic growth. [[The president calls.]] I want to know more about this at any point. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is true that I have stood here and said that I want to prioritize money for the people first. It's true that it will be 70,000,500,000.110,000 bucks. This year, when it will be fully implemented. If we share that 70,000 bucks. to 12 months it will be approximately 8,000 k. - or what was that, huh? Senator? The fact is that 21 billion non-profits, who actually bear witness to this intervention, only tell me that the people's party proposed a Senate hearing or a bill, I don't even remember either because I've been so busy in the council for the winter, I've just loaded it in there, and I'm talking for 300,000 bucks. The minimum tax and decomposition. Here I'm thinking of people with less than 325,000,600,000 bucks. per month. Yeah, this money doesn't seem right to me, it's 21 billion just like that. It's great to have 8,000 bucks. in a month, as soon as we're being put to death, all kinds of taxes will be put on us, making these 8,000 bucks. They will disappear completely without a trace very soon. This does not change the fact, however, that despite my good will and third tax step, I feel that many other things had been done, and many different things, for the huge amount of money that goes into it and spends a little bit of money for those who receive it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I can't agree with her. Yes, I'm talking about improving the benefit of individuals. Hv. A senator says: "The people first. I think for an individual with 325,000 bucks. In a month when no one will be too happy, 70,000 k will be divided. matter. I'd like to go back to the bank tax. We work hard to tax the financial system. We have a bank tax, a fiscal tax and a special fiscal tax. I think very few people, at least of those we compare ourselves with, taxing the financial system as much as we do. It's nice to think that next year there will be no decrease in bank tax. It's a reduction in plans from 2021. Hv. A senator speaks of pursuing increased income, and he wants to tax the financial system in this way. As soon as we have to expand the production of the economy in all the sectors, we're in, as we've noted, in many areas, a bit large, costly, and inaccessible financial systems, and I'm asking, "What's the people's opinion on selling banks? " Believe it or not. A senator's return to the people, why not a lower bank tax? [[The president calls.]] What do people's minds believe in getting rid of money on banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The opinion that a group of people have at the sale of banks is very clear. It's probably selling another bank. We've always said that we wanted to see the Lands Bank become a community bank. We really wanted us to have a bank that was for the people. People first, please. So I'm going to point out this tax reduction. Hv. A senator talks about 70,000 bucks. for an individual with 325,000 bucks. per month. 700,000 a year are over 5,800 bucks. per month. Putting 21 billion in this person's ability to have one pizza and probably half a quart of soda a month will need to be ignored, but I'm looking at the large number out in the community that gets, like the girl I mentioned earlier, 240,000 bucks. paid for a full-time job. I'm talking about the 21 billion people who might have been able to establish priorities in order to improve their use of those who need it even more. There's nothing else I'm saying. I'm not saying that taxes are being dropped on people with 325,000,600,000 dollars. per month. I'm just talking all the time about my ideals being to put the people first in a way that when you put money on top of your budget, it's all done first in behalf of those most in need. I want to sell another bank, I'm sure, and I haven't so far seen it, though. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, that although some taxes and interest have been dropped, it has turned to us, the public of the country, unfortunately. It seems that there's a lot of stuff in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u108	Mr. President. Hv. One part of the second part of the talk that I would like to have at a word. A senator about, i.e. that discuss how the welfare system can be financed. It suggests that local payment will be paid in a pension fund rather than on payment, stating that this proposal would provide a wealth of money without reducing the provision of the citizens. I'd like to ask you about this and how. A senator gets this to work in the overall context. The change would mean that instead of paying taxes from pension paid from the system, the fee would be submitted to the deposit. It is bringing the tax burden from generation to generation, but I'm going to find out more about it in the second answer. What I would like to ask more about is what is stated in ASI's review of the matter. It says that, according to the criteria in the report, this probably means that the tax price for lower pension rates increases more than the tax from high pensions would reduce the current cost. I ask: How does this work if the amount of money you put up is that the price of payment for those who have the lowest income to the highest? I can't see that this is working together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I have to admit, if we start with the conclusion of a question or something. Senator, I don't know anything about what she's talking about. They're just talking about local standards. If you take 100,000 bucks. In your pension fund, you just pay the local payment when it's taken off, whether you have 200,000 bucks. In income, or 20 million, the local pay is taken there. The reason we're going that way is simple. I have, for example. Not yet got the answer to how many people have died before the age of pension. What has been done about investments and all the funds we are collecting into the pension system? How can we make the best use of them? How can we make the best use of the funds for those who have them, for the people of the land? There we can pick up about 70 billion at a local deposit on the pension fund. We might not be able to put on taxation and everything. I find it necessary for the government to do what I have suggested, to give a general survey for those with the funds, and to ask whether they want to try to reduce the damage, whether they want to prevent all kinds of extra taxes and all kinds of extra laws, whether they want to avoid losing like 600 billion of their pensions, like in the crash, because of the risks of investing. There's reason to look at this and do it really well. Party dog. A senator speaks for example. About some green letter, some green bonds. Is this the time for those pensioners, those who have a pension fund now to save the climate? What they say to ASI might be a little more convincing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u110	Mr. President. It sounds like a reason. A senator has no clear answers but that he would return income. Of course, it is here and now, but based on what ASI points out, this would result in more paying for those who have less pensions, which are usually money - rich people. I don't think that's a good sign. The other thing I want to talk to you about. A senator is also involved in this matter. The number of labour markets per pensioner is rapidly decreasing, i.e. Today there are six workers per pensioner, but after 25 years the ratio is expected to drop to one in three. The current arrangement ensures that pension workers will pay taxes on their pensions and thus contribute to finance, for example. The health and welfare system. But if that tax is taken, the future working people will have to pay more taxes because it's hardly a good idea. A senator's taxing it back on payment, right? I ask: Should future generations, then, be a source of support for our welfare system now? How's it going, man? So a senator is going to run the welfare community for those who are young today and will become those who live in this society in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for those deep and excellent questions. The fact is, I've expected the 5,000 billion people who are now in the Pension Fund to not be stopped here and now, hoping that people will continue working in the country, to continue paying in the fund. Besides, I'd rather just jump the fund, have it through a flow fund, and do other things with the pension system than we do today. But that's a different story. Hv. A senator says that working hands for each pensioner will be reduced. Then I think that it should just put your hands on the White House bill, which is, for example, the people. to try to reduce the number of microorganisms without discarding them by allowing them to go to work and assess their own skills as best equipped. Instead of always being like the hamster and spinning, let us step outside the box and look at things in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u112	Mr. President. A great deal of this has been discussed with the government's financial bill. In fact, many interesting developments have been made in itself, and, as with much of this discussion, a race has been set on where to add further to public expenses. But what I feel is, what I want to call the rationality or misleading presentation of the government on the budget bill, where the government boasts of a confidentiality or a practical view of government government government government government, by clear priorities and by least by government officials, and by the way, I have to say that it's the most amusing thing in this discussion, that at present circumstances, the state affairs of government are particularly compatible with money management. I'd like to get a little better into this. We're making a record for the growth of the government. This is actually making exactly the same mistakes that we have made in the economic uplifting times, the rate of government spending is stretched to the limit on the basis of economic benefits, only to deal with problems in the way of a palace. Let's see what's going on now. We talked about this week's bill for a fundraiser where there's a substantial reversal on the future supply of state funds. The current year was expected to run the state funds to less than 30 billion in the current year, i.e. 1% of land production, but now it's headed towards a home of 15 billion, 0.5% of land production. It is reversed to 1.5% by a change in the economy that would be considered in the Icelandic economy as a minor one, with one year of minimal or slightly negative interest, but based on current economic forecasts only to return on flight almost at once. It would be good and blessed to run a wealth of Kingdom under those circumstances if we saw a real increase in investments. However, the fact is that when we look at the three - year history of this government, taking into account budgets for 2020 that we address here, there is an increase in the spending of the State Department of the year 2017 of nearly 160 billion on solid prices, in the vastest part of the increased government budget, and in the least part of the increase in government investments, and in spite of the repeated need for investments in the interiors, where such investments have been starving all the streets before collapse. In connection with a transport program, which should be a second session for discussion at the council right now in the winter after being adopted temporarily in spring, it is discussed that in order to finance the campaign there, especially the transport contracts in the capital area, needs to be increased taxation; user expenditures are needed to finance the necessary and long - term investments. That is exactly what was repeated when this government took over and introduced its first budget and first financial plan, that in the economic basis of the government's increase of expenses, there was far too much optimism, not being shown to enough counsel, there was no room for necessary tax downs, and absolutely no room for needed investments. The government ignored these warning words, but now the reality is beginning to face, with difficulties ahead of the government. In fact, the Kingdom work was a round increase, but now it is all very difficult to finance the expansion in which simply the amount of space available has been removed. It is good in this context to bear in mind that two of the three categories of government, independent party, and forwarding party were severely critical of government opposition in 2009-2013 of the major higher tax increases that existed then on the part of the so - called left government. In fact, they added the same groups more and made temporary taxes on the financial system to finance reimburse the households and are now proving the many things, that little is as permanent as temporary tax on the part of the government. This aim is to be established by this non-profit expansion over the past three years of the tax increases that remain due to the left government tax increases and to increase the curse of the banking system on the part of the forward government and the Independence Party in 2013-2016. A fine summary of the Labour Code of the Government's budget points out that home and employment pay 115 billion more in public spells this year than if tax rates had been the same as before the collapse. That's the bill we receive each year in the next few years, that's to be predictable, since there has not been an needed space to lower taxes in the environment that can be called unprecedented economic growth in recent years. We received a new export work programme, the tourism, which produces hundreds of billions of dollars in income with the equivalent of a trust fund. All the scope created in public finances has been spent in the process of exasperating the Kingdom bed at the same time. It is sad to see that almost none of this space has been used for needed investments, and now it is being proclaimed in this dangerous, destructive cocktail that together nonprofit growth in good things that could lead to only the growth of taxes in the future. We now see the reality of this in a transport contract made a few weeks ago. The 115 billion as jobs and homes are paying on extra budgets each year are not going anywhere in this government. There will be no room for tax doctors. The plans are to postpone bank tax reduction, tax, which is, in fact, taxing on bank customers, whether creditors or creditors, because as has been repeatedly pointed out, he leads only to more growth and thus to higher interest. These are simply taxes that work directly on the banking system. Of course, it is a fundamental problem, when we talk about the role of a government fund in economic management in times hopefully a temporary economic decline, that the state fund now rests on the economy at the same time as the economy needs oxygen, and that is because of the high financial growth that is mainly about to blow out the stalls and increase the high costs of public interest. In these circumstances it would be better for the government to reduce taxes, especially the bank tax, to reduce the interest rate in the country to stimulate investment, than to protect the budget to hire more workers in the public. It's not an economy, it's simply a groundless increase, which is, in fact, the glue for this government business that we're paying the bill for right now. However, it brings to mind another swamp that has been mentioned by this government, which is a clear priority for the increase in Kingdom spending. We can see best in a table that appears in a committee study of more of the legal committees submitted to the 2nd. as we watch the 2017 increase. Again, there is a 158 billion increase from 2017, a 19% increase in real value during this period. At the same time, we watch that hospital service is considerably below the average in these increases. There is a recession in donations to the university, and high school is almost unchanged at the same time. There is no priority in this expansion. The main foundations, our educational and welfare systems, are relatively less tax gain than that of e.g. The highest government management of the State budget, where expenses increase by 48% in real value during this period and, in fact, increases the expenses of the major institutions, the Generals, the courts, and the foreign states, considerably more than average government spending during this period. It reflects again and again that this is being held out in an unprecedented way. These are no priorities for the welfare system or education. There is one deception in the implementation of this government, and it shows it best in the opinion of more of the legal committee that follows us into 2rd. of budgets. It is odd to observe this very topic of government and economic control. The government does not seem to make any distinction between financial expenses and financial investments, financial expenses, and financial investments. It would be perfect to stimulate the level of investment in these circumstances. In fact, it is thought - provoking, e.g. law on public finances, how we handle public investments in these circumstances, i.e. That we are subsidizing it when, on the contrary, we should be able to create a considerable amount of space, including the amount of space we need. Based on the strong financial standing of an undisputed state fund, after one of the most long - term economics of Iceland's history. There should be room for significant investments over the next two to three years. We did so on the paradise project, even as we did. that our proposal in discussions about the government's financial program in spring would require an additional boost of 30 to 50 billion a year and would be most fortunate to look to the increase in investments, look to the next three years. It is simply suggested on the basis that investments have been starving in the history of this government, and it remains unless they are financed by higher tax increases in the population of the country. This is a very tragic fact, since there is a cumulative need for 2,300 billion, at least, in the least, an investment that would have been chosen to be able to attack with force now when we face a crisis that will hopefully be short - term. Whether we watch the average public investments during the past 30 years or the fine report of the industrial Association on the lack of investments in the infrastructure, this has been pointed to. It could have been a very good stimulation of the state's money into that downturn but not to continue raising the government spending without question. It is also tragic to see a decline in the bank tax. It's repeated, including In a white book, which the government itself put to work and that has already been identified, our taxation on the financial system is unique in the Western world. We have more than 0.5% of the national product in the specific taxation of the banking system, and long ago it is time to attack a fall because, as mentioned earlier, no one but the customers pay these taxes directly in the form of higher interest or less credit interest. That decrease in loan growth could, in fact, greatly stimulate investment levels in times where it is truly needed. Of course, the same can be said of an insurance fee, which is a very taxation of the industry and is still very taxation and, despite prior legal plans for its decline in terms of collective agreements, much higher than it was in the years prior to collapse, much higher than it was, and has been at the same level of unemployment as it is now. Bear in mind, for example, that the type of job life is. Over the past few years, excessive benefits have been paid over a much higher level of employment insurance expenses than are paid at the same time. There would have been good reason to go further in the reduction of insurance costs to stimulate the level of employment in the general economy. It is noteworthy that in recent years, we look at where jobs have developed in the economy. On the one hand, it's travel service. The great and powerful growth that has taken place in these last decades has not been missed. The official who has added thousands of jobs at the same time is a sign of how much the book has been stretched out in recent years. Sadly, this government, as mentioned earlier, is to support the growth of the growths of the left government and, in fact, the temporary rise in taxes that the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party attacked at the beginning of the season of the 20133/42016 season. It will be hard work to wind down the vast increase in expenses that has been made in this government in order to create room for needed tax doctors. It is true to remember that despite the unprecedented economic growth we have experienced in recent years, one of the longest economic growths in Iceland's history, we at the same time have increased government spending and tax recovery as a proportion of national product. We have now attained the questionable honor of being one of the most taxable countries in the OECD countries, including Sweden, with about 34% of national product, taking into account the social security expenditures, as expressed in the ideal summary of the employment community. There is a marked change from what was happening when the tax environment in this country was fairly practical in international affairs. That was even. The practicality of running a business in an international context, but it simply isn't anymore. This may explain how small growth, or the lack of growth, has occurred in the international sector in recent years if the tourism service is excluded. What's interesting is the weakness of the council's position with the executives, as shown in today's financial debate. You ask: What purpose do panels work for two months from the fact that a budget bill is submitted, accepting clients and clients, listening to their complaints on the available budget bill, which is simply being arranged and praying for the government to bring their changes to the bill? The majority of the budget committees then make the same adjustments, unchanged. It might be asked: Could we not save all of us some work if the government simply gave its final financial bill when a national forecast in the fall and a permanent space with which the government was working? It's a little far out of the question: Is the government taking responsibility for the complaint by having the Senate body meet them, taking almost nothing to do with their changes, and making these adjustments for a financial committee to make them their own? Then perhaps it would be better for the government to be responsible for the financial work until the point of economic forecasting that autumn is in progress, and the government can better understand its scope for working with them. This work is at least a play that makes me feel very bad, and it is not a good use during the time of a council or a financial committee, and it is not a role model. Clearly, the bill is not being given to the Council for development. Rather, we are primarily playing some wait until the government gives the final suggestions in November. Unfortunately, familiar ones are now being used to make ends meet in the budget at 2nd. When it becomes clear that economic leaders will be inferior to what was expected in the last winter, they will be reduced to investments. I must present a question mark to the claim that there is such a slow process in the construction of a National Hospital that contributions to the work can be reduced by 40% between discussions, since we were here in September. I would have held to the relaxation that is now in the economy that it would be possible by the right and good management of the investment rather than by reducing its power. This is exactly what we saw last year when we had to make ends meet, and the government reduced donations to build up nursing homes despite all the discussion that had taken place on the need for this building. This is true in spite of all the discussion of the great issue of efflux, the land hospital's discussion of the medical costs, and the problems the hospital faces, as well as the fact that the hospital could not perform a legitimate and needed service that would result in the same flow problem. This, however, reflects the best priorities for the government in government matters. It is the pay of the state and the increase in the emphasis on it, but the investment goes on as early as possible. This is also shown in another project that is considerably smaller in formats, in the cutoff on reimbursement of movie credit. That's 300 million. K. in recent years for the growth and development of tourism, the value of these joints, the potent activity of foreign film companies, has been repeatedly pointed out. At the same time as tourism is struggling with contractions, at the same time as wise and convenient, it would be more appropriate to add to the land espionage as this, the government draws together the sails. Once again, investments are actually reduced in order to maintain the growth of public pay. There is one thing, though, that I would like to commend for the government's change proposals for 2nd. budget, increased expenses for the Digital Iceland project. It is obvious that we have tremendous opportunities for government management, and it has been estimated that we could reduce the annual government cost of at least one year. 10 billion and 20 billion more, with the increased digital services of the government. It has been pointed out that despite the best digital infrastructure in international comparison and the vastest use of the Internet and digital technology in the public, the state is in 43th international comparison for the use of digital technology in civilian service. There's a lot of ruined opportunities, and I'm glad that the government is going to give extra money to this important project. Even more could be done there. There's one thing that I really like about accounting, we can say, the government on the budget bill now at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um... i.e. ... howwe handleLINE as someone who can save the money. In the winter, we are discussing a fundamental change in the system of student loans, where we will allow students to cover up to 30% of the borrowing of loans with a temporary advance of learning that I would put into them a huge increase in education and perhaps a considerable increase in the cost of LIN or a new education because of the same support. At the same time, we reduce our donations substantially to LIN and also to our own money. It actually comes to the best thing that has not yet been made to my knowledge enough from the Ministry of Economics, how we may be able to draw 5 billion of our own money, without any impact on the value of LIN in the books of the State. I would expect this to continue in exactly the same way as when an additional payment is paid out of a company, the value of the same company remains to be reduced. When it goes together that we're extracting less than 5 billion bucks. The amount of money you earn and the amount of annual donations you earn to LIN will be mutually demeaning to the value of your own money in the books of state funds. However, this does not seem to be taken into account or to be reimbursed. I wondered, " How does the precautionary view of public financial matters go? ' In fact, I wondered, " How does this pass just a simple set of criteria for a good accounting? ' I hope this will give us a better explanation from the Ministry of finance before we get to the 3rd. About a budget bill. I'm at least. for my part, very curious to know how this is going to stand. Finally, I'd like to mention something that is a long time away that the government will act on, i.e. sales of banks. Their sale or sale of part of the government's ownership of the banking system. is a long time. It has been discussed ever since the government released the financial system more and less. The possession of the state of the banking system here is absolutely unprecedented in Western comparison, and we are still talking about the importance of the government's opening up its ownership of banks. No step has been taken if the sale of the government's ownership of a bank in this context is considered to be small, relative to the property of Iceland Bank and the Bank of Lands. It can't be that complicated. It must be quite simple to set off on this road, e.g. By registration of the Lands Bank at a local stock exchange and selling into scattered holdings, although only in a quarter of the bank. The government's policy for this is that the state intends to hold on to a solid place in the bank and thus be able to control a quest, so that if the bank system does not succeed in any other way, it is long time for the government to begin releasing possession, it will only be seen that the value of the bank system does little more than dwindling the government in its present circumstances. I really hope we see the first steps that will take us next year, but I fear that it will only be a continuation of the discussion that has been so far, that it will simply be empty. It is probably because there is no agreement in this government to rid the possession of the financial system. As with everything else that this government cannot agree on, it is simply left in silence. This government was formed, not for any political debate, but primarily to make practical use of the favourable economic environment that has been here in recent years for a large interest in government spending. We remain in a condition of state ownership of the financial system, and it is likely that the next election will have some change of course there. That's what I'm saying. I'm not gonna extend my case. What we're getting out of this government is that the payment of this government has nothing to do with responsible economic management. It just wants so much fun to finally meet the government at one point in their budget, where it was appropriate for the government to increase as much as it really is. This is the third action of the government, for the other two, it has just been criticized for the contrary, that there was an increase in government spending way too much during the period of expansion, while the government's budget policy was suitable for the economy. Since then, the government has done quite a lot this time but did little to criticize those who were first directed for two times when it was repeatedly identified as irresponsible government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government. We'll see what's going to happen with the final disposal of these funds. Perhaps the most important thing in this discussion is how the government handles the uncertainty gap that we established in our council in a changed financial policy to provide space for economic downturns for which the government had actually eliminated the scope for it. This is similar to giving yourself an overwhelm to meet the bitter years of the next year, and it quickly erases the weight. That is exactly what the government is doing. This review has been deleted. We have no time left to face any further economic uncertainty that may well be involved in the cards without any further forecastings. We are simply talking about that in the economy there is still a lot of optimism for the traditional Icelandic downturn, for the status of a team and the competitive status of an Icelandic job life. It is worth considering, in the context of the fact that the real experience of the Icelandic kroner is still on the basis of pay, which has never met the balance conditions in the Icelandic economy. We still have to see if there has been some fundamental change in the economy or if we will simply accept the correction that has usually been followed by such a crisis stage, i.e. in human languages, in the form of gangfalls and related inflation and macarism, with serious consequences for the survival of a government fund. The fact is, however, that the government will leave no room on the table to meet it next year, simply trusting that it will be all right. It is not responsible financial management, nor is it in the spirit of a baseline law on public finances, i.e. for financial security. I fear that we will face the reality of the next year that the government'sliance will be considerably higher than this, and that the uncertainty gap approved a few months ago in the government financial policy will not be enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his speech and cooperation. It's a legal committee. Hv. A senator boasts that the government and the government prides themselves on confidentiality and clear priorities. At the very least, I can say that it is always important that priorities are clear, and advice can usually apply. Hv. A senator was greatly encouraged and improved, speaking of a record in the increase of sales fees and great payoffs. The fact is, though, that the increase in Kingdom spending was much higher on the top of the economy when it was due. A senator was a government minister. That's why I don't quite understand why. A senator speaks this way. As if it's very useful now, there's a breakdown in the economy, so it's wise to make more investments. That is still wise. What I can say, however, is that it would have been better if the 3,500 million people were to enter this year in the Hospital. It's something that the Land Hospital's Building Committee keeps their arms around. We don't have a charge for 3,500 million if it's predictable that it won't be replaced. I'm gonna leave a question. Hv. A senator spoke of financial policy and money policy and that we were talking about it in the same direction. [[The president calls.]] Like it wasn't right. This is confirmed in the National Bank of Money. This confirms the World Cash Fund. This confirms an improvement in Moody's credit rating. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with these parties on this fact?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u114	Madam President. To start with a previous remark. The senator, regarding the financial policy of the former government that I sat for a short while, all too short in his own opinion, of course, is well to compare the financial programme of the government with the expected government's expenses in 2020 which, if this financial bill is approved, nearly 100 billion higher than that government had planned, on the basis of very economic forecasts at that time. That may be the fundamental difference in responsible approach to the budget. It is clear that the progress of the economy was greater and better than expected. The responsible financial management would have made room for important tax doctors at this time in order to stimulate the economy during periods of subtraction but would not run the economy out of it with the continuing increase in public work, with continued expansion of the state body but not with tax shrinking or the necessary injection for public investments. This is the fundamental difference between the approach of the government and this, here simply the rest of the space has been spent, not in public investments or tax returns, but in the direct expenditures of state funds. I'm very sorry. But that's right. A senator points out that the World Bank, the Sentencing Bank, and other members are precisely pointing out that now in these circumstances, the expansion will produce a certain stimulation into the economy. I'm simply saying, it's just a coincidence. On the contrary, it was only by chance. Government policy throughout the three years it has brought up financial laws has been an unpublished increase in cost. For the first time, that was a good fit. The first two times, it didn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's reputation, however, is excellent. A senator will help you understand economic issues. Yet, I sometimes know that he knows better, even though it may sound better in speech and in a position of government. Hv. A senator crossed the budget of the rest of the portion on page 6. 8 That's interesting. Then I'm here to say that the General Assembly is, of course, about to increase the relative amount of expenses because it is an investment in innovations that will save the council into time and the highest administration because it is a maintenance of the Council of Government. That's a big percentage increase. However, these figures contain clear priorities for health and transportation. I agree with what. A senator says that it took us way too long to collect in, but we're making a big investment, and hopefully we'll make more of it. Then they talk. A senator on tax downs. I think we can totally agree that they are very desirable in the circumstances that we now enjoy in the economy. But this is a cut-off income tax. It's paying taxes on the job, on the insurance bill. I agree with what. A senator on the bank tax, and I'd like to see it start this year, but the tax deficiency, the bank tax, has been determined. We have a lot of taxes on the financial system that's unpredictable, so I agree with that. That's what a senator does. Regarding the movie remunerations - and now I am picking up what we can try to get to work well. The budget - it's the law, so those projects that are approved for reimbursement get the money, but it's a warrant for this year, indeed. [[The president calls.]] Then, as a recent report by a state accountant, the law is being revised so that we need to examine it in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u116	Madam President. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. My problem with priorities is, of course, just this: Priorities must include the largest proportionate increase in the number of priorities involved. It simply states that a relative increase in education and health is much less than a relative increase in the total budget at the same time. This is the priorities of the government. In fact, the priorities have been far different from health and education in this regard. At any rate, it is obvious to me that when you cut down the expenses in terms of these issues and, most of all, all of them will have lawsuits that will reflect the priorities of the government, not those with the least proportion of increase. Yet, the government always keeps it up, saying, "Here's our priorities. I find this to be critical. That's what I'm saying. There's no priorities. It's simply a groundbreaking increase. It causes the damage I showed in my case that there has not been room for tax doctors who would have been very important in these circumstances, and there is no room for the important infrastructure that has been left too long, and indeed there has been just a good space to be made over the last two to three years in this unprecedented increase of government money because of the economic upkeep. I find this to be critical, and I hate that we missed our chance. After a decade, we are still the only trip to subtraction without being able to get properly into the needed infrastructure, which was just passed on to surgery after a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u117	Madam President. Thank you. His talk was of interest to a member of the body. But I have to say in answer to what. The Senator that the talks he has previously given with regard to the government's finances, or the situation we're dealing with here, are much easier to approach than it's drawn up in the past few months, and I think we should celebrate that position. The pessimism displayed in speeches. The senator for the spring financial programme is not following up. I just wanted to tie it up. Second of all, I want to, just like what you're doing. The chairman of a legal committee called on his opponent to tell us that we are reducing taxes. We're lowering income tax. It seemed to me that the senator lightly overlooked it in his talk. We're going to keep cutting down insurance. It's very interesting to hear an answer. A senator before, when he may follow the reasoning to accept that this is getting results in economic management, he says that it is a coincidence. It's not. In recent years, we have built this position by means of responsible government of government. But don't argue about it. What I wanted to come in on, and I'm going to have a conversation with what. Because it was interesting to me, and I agree with him in the way we handle investments in the financial structure we're dealing with and using in the management of government funds and innuendo the government's investments in a year. I'd like to pray. A senator is going on a little closer, not just because we're getting into temporary contractions, but because we need to continue to develop and develop the legislation we're working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u118	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. When I say it's just a coincidence, I'm just referring to the fact that the government has established a financial program that has been closely followed. But that is the economic basis for the change in cost increases. I agree with what. A senator told me that I am very happy to see that this landing seems to be a bit softer than I feared in spring. But I state that there I was simply drawing up a stage for a soft landing in Icelandic espionage, the softest thing to do so far. It did not reflect some unnecessary pessimism on my part. I was simply pointing out that one of the softest landings we've ever been through, which was in 2001 30-2003, was still a significant challenge to the survival of the State, and I just want to be right on trial that we are not yet able to see a country with a down cycle now. But how satisfying it is to see that most of the evidence indicates that she will become even more soft and even softer than we have experienced in the past! However, I am happy to have a word for it. A senator who has had a lot of experience and, in fact, has had a lot of experience. It is time to shape the laws on public finances and on the boundaries that we continue to work on and shape. But I think we need to examine very carefully how we handle public investments. Of course, in a traditional business, investments are attributed to and paid for the releases. In fact, that's what we're doing in another system of government. In its reviews about the government's budget and financial policies, financial policies have repeatedly pointed out that this need to be examined. It is just in circumstances like this that would be very desirable to be able to spit very handsome in public investments, real public investments, which can both stimulate the economy but also be a long - term producer, although it may have increased debt temporarily while going through it. I think we need to examine more carefully whether it is advisable to change how we handle this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer. I think this is exactly what we're supposed to do to help us figure out that in this situation it's clear that the legislation that it is holding us too hard to solve an impulse that we can use to counteract the recession we're dealing with right now, which will hopefully be temporary. Another part of his talk, which I wanted to discuss specifically in return to. A senator, is the work on the budget and the work on the budget bill. You see, I'm not exactly where I am. A senator when he says that this is a useless budget for two months with sources of information, unless it is less. I think it's important in this relationship to remember that we've moved the weight of the budget into the spring, and during our last spring financial work, more part of the legal committee made many and major changes in financial programmes. In many respects, it is normal that the changes that come into existence on autumn days are more on the rhythm we are working on right now and discussing today because of changing national economic forecasts and adjusting the amount of money that is based on a number that is on and that is less of a major change in the budget project in the fall than the ones we are doing in the spring of economic planning. I would also like to say to those who are posting talks and reviews to the financial committee that we are actually disciplining ourselves in a way that brings us under the burden of financial gain and the government's financial control in the spring plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u120	Madam President. This is an interesting discussion, and this criticism of the practices or work environment around the budget itself is not just explained by the fact that in the evening at 2nd. ... abundant. I wondered, though, that the weight of the discussion and the dating role of the council is in the spring of a financial program. That's why I wonder in that context, because in many ways we're repeating the game in the budget in the fall, whether it's not in good condition that the budget is the government's budget within the budget that the Council has adopted and placed the same government in spring and renew each of us, so that we're not here in the same financial agenda and then again on budgets in the autumn, but is simply on the responsibility of the government and its role to provide financial laws that are within the framework set up for it in the budget that was set up in the budget and agreed for spring. During the fall, the financial debate has always been a major public assembly. She's in time very similar as she was. But in the spring of financial planning, we have added to our discussion. It may be quite normal for them to be the role and responsibility of the council. Then it is simply the responsibility of the European Commission to provide the budget, taking into account the economic conditions that are stored within the market budget. I think this is just interesting to us and has been discussed on a budget committee, how we can avoid repeating the same discussion in the spring and autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u121	Madam President. We'll discuss the budget here at 2nd. Now that I've just joined a budget committee, I'd like to start by saying that this is an interesting discussion of the budget work alone, so I'll only talk about the initiative at first. I think we're still learning how to work within the framework set by the government laws. We're just seeing how we're going through this system from start to finish with the government, and I think that that's why it's perfectly normal that we're still being adjusted by the way we go through this job. I think it is very important to continue the work as it has been on a budget committee and to see guests. It is very important that reporters can share their views with a financial committee. Our understanding at a council is deepened by the opinions of people who come to a meeting of the Committee and follow their comments. However, I don't think that it would be necessary to continue a certain conversation on the committee at the highest level. A government on that matter, for the government will not be allowed to meet the same guests. There may be something to think about at the council, how can you add that conversation to the production of the budget? I think that might improve, also because economic forecasts come here, like now, which was published in November, and that's where we're dealing with points 2 and 2. budgets to be taken into account. It would be very useful for a financial committee to resume a conversation with the Ministry and Minister on how to put together the latest information for the procedures under the budget. This includes politics, as well, maybe not the politicians involved in exactly what money goes into but that it can be handled better with the comments coming through and thus listening more carefully to the viewpoints presented. I've heard some things before. Councilmen talk about this, but here, members of the Parliament are not involved by whether they are in a government or in a position of government. Rather, they are more just talking and thinking about how they can improve the work. I think it's a good thing. Congress officials raised various viewpoints and simply allow themselves to think a little bit aloud about how we can improve the budget. In the end, though, I think the most important thing in terms of society is that it is the most important thing. I don't think the public may be so concerned about the job at the council, but it's still important, because in this I think there's more transparency and that the conversation will become deeper as to what we are doing at the council. I'm not going to talk about this any more. I'm going to go back to the subject that serves as a bill for the budget of 2020. Hv. paritaprevir In the past, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson explained to a body of committees a greater proportion of the legal committee, and I do not intend to repeat all of that in any way. A senator there said that he was aware of both the committee's opinion and the major changes proposed. I'd rather use my time to ski on a big one. I'd like to start by saying the highest. Governments have gone a different way than many governments have so far. She immediately took up many of her biggest promises and began by raising expenses for various cases and has been doing so since 2017. I think it was important, because the extra money was missing into an enormous number of cases that I might be following. I think it's important that we do it right from the start, when the national building went very well. Earlier this year, Icelandic industry suffered trauma. WOW air went bankrupt and stayed on airplanes, and then no one caught fur. There is a size that is extremely important in the Icelandic economy and that has always been done. While we may not be as dependent on the fishing road as we are on how to fish, surely this is a huge issue in our economics, and it will be the future. In February the National Bank analysis department predicted that the failure of hairy cells would affect economic growth as a range of 0.6 percentage points, with a substantial contribution. So it gave a good deal of effort, but the government responded by compromising the financial resources that I think are exactly the response to the economic situation we are in right now. In fact, it seems to me that most of the people who have addressed the discussion agree on this and that they have not spoken of the fact that the government's funds should go to some massive cut - down procedure but that is exactly the right way, i.e. to allow state funds to go to a corner for a while. I think it is very important that the public does not have to pay for it with impaired service, even if it gives up a little. We can afford to let the rest give in and go through this down cycle without compromising our service. This I think national wisdom to do and that this is better for society. In spring, there were quite loud voices saying that everything here is going to be very bad, that there would be a traditional persecution and that everything was getting out of hand. Now, however, it seems to be showing that Icelanders are experiencing a down cycle in which the money management can function as it is supposed to work, but usually when the economy is over-reached, inflation, and subsequent failures have had to rise in direction growth. Now, however, operating growth has been reduced and this will reduce the financial costs of companies and individuals and will increase the demand and will lead to the restoration of sectoral wheels. It certainly slowed the growth of a travel service that was ever to occur, as well as the external circumstances I traced back here that could not be prevented or predicted. The pillars on which the United States operates are solid. More than ten years ago, the Icelandic economy was in debt. We had set some sort of record in business halls, and in fact, Iceland had been doing business halls for decades, but that's not the case today. We have more money abroad than we owe. The wealth owes little and obtained earlier this year's best interest, which is a fact in that the other day Iceland's credit rating was raised by the Moody menu. The results of the company were included. that the funding of public finance helped the economy to cope better with tragedy. Of course, this is important because as we all know, the economy is swinging, the economy goes up and down, and it's important to be able to react when the swing goes down as it is right now. Also important is government action in connection with the financial agreements made in spring, which include an scope of over 70 billion in the coming years. The number of tax steps I consider to be very good is increasing, but at the same time paying taxes is being reduced to the highest income so that, from here on, the rate of rate increases, there is a greater difference between how different income groups pay to the tax system. It is now three tax steps, so to speak, that is to reduce taxes to the lowest paying rate. So I believe this is a matter of action that is important. At the same time, child - rearing and housing improvements are being increased, extending the birthworm as well as extensive transport investments. Government activities combined are increasing the provision of households and will increase economic growth in the coming years. The Secular Bank assesses these measures as a 0.5 percentage point contribution to economic growth and 2% for growth during the following years. I would especially like to talk about prolonging the birthworm, but one of the biggest cases of this government has been extending its birthworm. The first stage of two is stepped into these budgets by adding funding to extending the birthmark to ten months. The extending of maternity and, at the same time, making it possible for others to spend longer at home with their children, is important equality and discretion. This is an equalizer because it has been repeatedly shown that if fathers take a longer birth certificate, it will have an effect to reduce sexual pay. It is not only that fathers can spend more time with their children, which, of course, is good for themselves, but it is also to reduce the sexual amount that has been so high and that it is completely intolerable. This is also an important challenge, and it has been pointed out that one of the best operations the government can take to reduce the risk of children's poverty is to bridge the care gap between birth School and prenatal school. It supports women's long - term employment activities and also increases the family's standard of living. The suggestions of the majority are suggested to increase the budget of birth ordinary funds because families seem to be making more use of the birthworm, as well as the number of births that are simply increasing in numbers that are very joyful news. During the third quarter of this year, more children were born in proportion than from 2010. I'm just gonna let me hope that next year they'll be way beyond the premium even if we're up here and we're gonna have to put more money in on budgets in 2020. Even if you don't want to talk about it in general, you might expect something to happen to land on budgets, I think it would be a very positive thing for an Icelandic community. Last year, a team of experts published a report on reimbursement of income taxes and reform systems, which provide extensive coverage on the development of the tax system in recent decades. One of the 45 measures the government made against the company of the local labour market in spring was the change in the tax system to take up a three - step tax system to the north - step model I covered earlier that I thought was a very important, good step. This work was based on the experts'work, so it was guaranteed that the changes would be best for the most efficient groups. This is of utmost importance, for it increases the balance in society. These changes involve mainly two things, a decrease in tax burden and a lower limit of taxes on a low salary, and the first step of two is taken into these budgets. These changes are in addition to the changes the government has experienced in recent years, in order to create an increase in capital taxes in the first budget of this government. The change in fiscal taxes may have affected the share of the highest income level in the total population of the country. In other words, it's an equation to increase. There was an increase in personal discount over the inflation of the last funds. Children's reforms have increased, making them mostly less money, and finally I remind them of the important change that took place in the last year that the top tax step now follows the same index as the lower tax step. This prevents sparkling in the tax system between the income and the income of the community and is the most important issue of justice. When the changes in the tax system are fully accomplished, they will deliver more than 10,000 dollars. more than per month in the pockets of those with the lowest salary. That's not what we're talking about. Children's benefits have also increased from year to year. About a billion bucks. it is to increase the limit of decline. This means that for a single parent, there is no impairment of child repair up to 338,000 dollars. each month, as well as the child benefits that a single parent can raise each year. This is also important, for this is a raising of the resources of those with the lowest amount of pay and the lowest amount of money to support themselves. It creates a more just society. Official investments increase from year to year and aim to reach 3.8% in 2020, yet it is still short enough for us to reach the same stage as the years before crash. However, analysts do not agree completely on this. The latest policy of the World Bank shows that he considers public investment to be in place at the same time as before a crash, but anyway, I think it's safe to say that we're on the right track. Energy contributions have increased by 13 billion since 2017. I'd like to say, though, there's still work to do and it's important to go to the system changes that have been discussed. There's not much we've talked about how complicated and destructive the system has become, and there are some impairments, and it's really hard to see how the development of certain joints will get through the system to those using the social security system for their own implementation. V.E.G. A prime minister has announced that there is a bill coming in the spring months, but the goal of changing is largely two kinds of change, ensuring those who cannot work safely and sufficiently, as well as encouraging and supporting those who can work. There is a great need for rehabilitation, and the positive is what was presented at a conference held this morning by the U.S.A., that increased emphasis has been put on promoting rehabilitation. Indeed, it is a good thing for society to do, but at the same time it needs to be maintained, when we talk about increasing rehabilitation and getting more people into the workplace, that there is also a great deal of work to be done by people with limited employment. I think it's important, and I want to reiterate what was presented in the language of the day. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, earlier today, will be ordered to pay a single amount of money at December in 2019, at a rate of 10,000. and arrange it so that it will not reduce any other compensation. It's a good thing, and I think it's gonna be very important. It has been said that there was a delay in the construction of the Land Hospital, making it necessary that not all the funds for the construction of the Land Hospital in the next year are needed. That is why it is wise to reduce the money entered and to leave it in other parts of the system at the time, but not to reserve such large amounts of money for something that is known to be improved because of future implementations. This is not because governments have decided to take action later. In recent years, medical contributions have increased dramatically. Under these are our large hospitals, and the land hospital is by far the largest. I have felt that there are certain misunderstandings when it comes to talking about a problem that greatly increases the cost of health care. Sometimes such voices can be heard, even though I feel that most of us here agree that this is really positive. It's hard to compare the figures today from a few years ago, but if they are calculated from a consumer science, it gives a distorted picture. The effectiveness of the service should be adjusted, i.e. that the quality of our ministry increases, as well as the quality that we need today is different from that of a few years ago. The number of people over 67 years of age is increasing, and this needs to be considered when discussing health expenses. It's being done, and it's good. It is important to continue improving the modeling and graduation problems of the Land hospital. They're taking a very important step in that direction. There is a debate to place 600 million. K. in this from the amount expressed in the budget bill to improve the design of the health - care system. There has been a shortage of nurses in the capital area, and there has been a lack of doctors in the country. It is also suggested that there will be an increase in funds for foreign health care professionals to gain their education right here in the country. This will help to strengthen the head of the health system here, but it will also make it easier for immigrants to get suitable jobs. Also, it is suggested that we discuss the cost of 150 million. K. to strengthen the number of hospital transports and thus balance access to health care regardless of the facility so that further contributions are being made through a targeted intervention procedure. I'd like to talk about climate and environment for a moment before leaving this talk. Young people have been leading them up with Greta Thunberg in the lead. It has done nothing but tell the truth and the right results of scientists. Governments have taken hold of climate issues by implementing a climate change strategy. It involves two main rivers, one on the one side of a carbon binding program, with increased forest culture, land healing, and the recovery of wetlands. Here a wide variety of goals will be achieved by reducing land - to - land emissions and stopping emissions from non-efficiently developed swamps and by binding carbon into trees and roots through forestry. There has only been talk of contributions to forestry in this discussion, and I would like to think that in the budget, the forestry industry is emphasised on the quality of the law, but in proposals from a greater portion of the legal committee, 28 million are also expected to improve. K. a donation to support the field of research at Forest. It is a very important task, one that can be attributed to the binding of forests and forestry to climate. In the climate and environment, energy exchange in transport is important. The number of motor stations around the country is increasing so that electrical cars will be an alternative for all the population. That leaves about 800 million. K. in preparing a city line, which, of course, is an enormous amount of environment, quality of life and biographies. More green taxes are being adopted, and those who're going to be contaminated are going to pay. I don't think there will be any escape, so green catalyses and green taxes will increase in the future. There's no other way we'll be able to deal with the climate. Of course, it is important to listen to what experts say, as Greta Thunberg has many references, but at the same time we also need to start action. Parched taxes encourage recycling and opportunities will create innovations to create waste value. The tax recording is postponed, but I think it's very important that it won't be postponed for long, and I hope it will, and I assume the tax will be up and running in my next year. However, the rural communities, which feel they may need a slightly longer lead-in, are likely to meet, but at the same time, it is very important that governments keep going indelibly, for this is an extremely important action in climate. Fundamental bill also speaks of accelerated emissions of f-gains used in industrial cooling systems and accelerated climate change. So there are important issues in this budget bill. Mr. President. Because my time is running out, I just feel like getting on with international development teamwork. There is an important adjustment proposal, part of the suggestions for more part that are being added to 300 million. K. a donation in accordance with the financial deliberation programme. It refers to the contributions made by developing cohesion in the budget and makes it possible that we are on a project with the regulations made by this government in their government contract to increase the steps of contributions to development cooperation with GDP. How important and how happy it is that the money transferred from cash to fund paid by financial programs comes here will be this proposal, which I believe will be approved by the past development team. Mr. President. Finally, I believe that by means of the budget bill available here and by the suggestions that more of the legal committee proposes to 2nd. Is reason enough to come into the place where we are in the economy right now. I think it'll be in Icelandic society for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u122	A respectable president. We're discussing the budget of 2020, and I'm going against what. Senator Steinunn-Þóra-Árnadóttir. She mentioned that since 2017, there were 13 billion improved in the matter of disability. We know that by the end of next New Year's Eve, exactly three years have passed since the loss of a cent from older citizens. The information thus available was that the cost of reducing a dollar to a dollar of microfowl was around 12 billion a year, a total of 36 billion. If we've added 13 billion since 2017, it kind of seems to me that the poor guys are paying themselves. By failing to correct a dollar from a decrease, as in senior citizens, they are paying their own raise because they don't look like a dollar to the decrease, which is 65 dollars to one. Unfortunately, as noted, it has also caused chain-mortem declines into the system and all the way to the local government, into special compensations, rent-ins. We have an amazing system, and I am declaring my disappointments that it does not seem to be being handled in this financial bill. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree with me that it is not the present to have disability wait so long for a cent to be fully removed and at the same time that it does not cause chain - acting impairments, so that it is being taken only elsewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u123	Mr. President. The special supplementation is a payment party in the micro-energy pension system to ensure that no biofuels will go down for a minimum in income. A very large proportion of those who receive that payment party, the special supply, have no extra income, and receive no nickel against a dollar. Thus, to speak as if the removal of a cent in favor of a coin would benefit those who receive the special supplement would simply not be correct. There is no way to talk about the price of self - sufficiency. The 13 billion who have infiltrated the system since 2017 have simply been involved in improving the overall benefits. In addition, 2.9 billion were assigned to reduce the value of those with income beyond the specific amount of supplementation. So they maintain a larger proportion of their income than they used to. Of course, it is important to improve the quality of the extra income group. But it remains that the special extension has been the payment that has kept those with the lowest value in the global social security system. [[The president calls.]] Then we can fully discuss how to improve their benefits. [[The president calls.]] However, it is not possible to speak of a person who has been paying for his compensation. [[The president calls.]] That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u124	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I must strongly object to it because the special supply was put on of the left green and the Continent at the time. It was put on just after a crash, if I remember correctly, and the promise made when the cripples and others were discouraged that the first thing that would be done would be to correct their terms. It was never done. Everyone else was right. There's something else in this. Whatever it is. A senator said it was true of older citizens, exactly the same thing. But they've already had it, so they're taking it off microchip. What is very unfair, really unreasonable, when it comes to special compensation is that all your income is dependent on it. It's a chain-mortem impairment. You can't get a cent in one place without someone else taking it, even in more than one place. If you receive a dollar in one place, you may be losing 2 K. ... offthesystem. It is completely incomprehensible to me that anyone should try to defend such a system. Apart from the fact that before the last election, all classes promised that they would cancel a dollar in return. They also promised that all classes of men would be corrected. Is something being done? Yes, instead of a dollar against a dollar's decrease, 65 dollars is being received, which results in no return because it has a chain-mortem decline in the system. Most of the people in need of this couldn't get it. It was not even thought about distributing it over eight months; it was to be paid once. And they say to the people, sick people: You can only sue, you're just supposed to sue them to have them scattered. We're talking about sick people, and we're supposed to treat them with respect, making sure they get exactly what older citizens have got.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u126	Mr. President. This morning there was a very interesting convention, which included the U.S.A. developing in ideal microenergy and sensibilities, with different scenarios of age and family situation. It was seen in whites when special progress was made - that was when Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was social minister - how it raised those who had no money to further themselves than pay from the social security system. This is of utmost importance to those who have nothing else to do with running and cannot increase their income by making a living or if they took the young into the disability payment that they don't have the rights to pensions. This can be seen in the numbers of the U.S. National Institute of Insurance. There is no more dollars in favor of a dollar. But there are certainly discrepancies in the system. I believe that what needs to be done primarily now is to do even more to improve the benefit of those who have nothing else to do with it. In fact, it was a huge step in the history of this government that reduced revenue to calculation of the decrease in percentages when it comes to age-related pay in the social security system. It was an enormously important matter of interest and compensation for the youngest pensioners. [[The president calls.]] So, yes, we have to do more than we already have, and important changes have begun to be made to improve the quality of the disability donor. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u127	Mr. President. Now we've been discussing the budget bill today, and there's a lot of good discussions, I'd like to say. I hope that the President forgives me for this metaphor and maybe some folly when I say that today when we listened to members of the government stand, they paint in their speeches a picture of this money bill that is available here, it reminded me of an advertisement of a used car that I have ever read. What was considered an excellent vehicle was that new air was the tires. I thought of it this way, but I don't want to do it any more. Still, I feel as if I'm getting closer to this discussion and to the state's funds and the actions the government is using for a little bit from stirring up some old bowl and trying to find a cut on the bill and the government's financial administration in this way. I can refer to a discussion earlier today in matters that I am not going to discuss further. I simply feel this way, a respectable president, with this budget bill and the adjustment proposed by more than a part of the financial committee is doing to them that in recent years, there is a very well - pleasing strength to the government's administration of money. Just like what? paritaprevir Of course, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir said so well in a talk earlier, we should look to the time the government has been living and to the work it has done at that time, not merely looking at the changes and fees of this bill. When we're done with the situation, that's what we're gonna do. The head of the budget board was very well informed today, showing that the government is a bit special, its composition, from left to right, formed for a purpose in the final election, which simply called for a more unconventionally governance. It's the core and reality we're building this budget on. In this financial bill, the increase is confirmed, and it's a significant one. It means that people with income between $320,000 and 600,000. is getting income tax loss in the range of 70,000 to 120,000 dollars. Biographs obtained earlier this year and this budget bill with a change in financial programs that we discussed in spring based on our situation. That's why I don't feel bad, a respectable president, to discuss changes in the budget bill that translates 9 billion in the business of state funds, much like that. I think it's important that we have specific sizes in mind when we discuss them specifically. At work at financial policy earlier this spring, more part of the budget used for the changes in financial policy following the administration of the government where it increased the government's scope to 0.8% in public affairs. This financial bill and the changes we're talking about mean 0.3%. There's another number I'd like to draw out especially in that relationship. We have over 10 billion reserves here. When we make the 10 billion reserves at 9 billion across the state's budget, we see that we are in good balance in the government budget. We can mention one more number, 72 billion in public investment. We talked about it earlier tonight, me and what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, how we are booking the government's investments in the Kingdom book that we should, of course, consider in view that it may not be appropriate to book the value of our investments in a year. I'm not talking about accounting rifles or accounting practice. I just want to draw it up that the original balance of state funds is about 38 billion, according to this bill. It is a 9 billion limp after 8.7 billion revenues due to new economic forecasts. I'm not sure that in the past government funds have been able to handle such a blow in income, and they respond with as little change in expenses as they are here. And it was in another accounting system, if we could discuss it that way, i.e. We had other methods for government funds back then. This shows that we are dealing with budgetary resources, not protection. We're a lot more on the offensive. We are completing a very important contract made with workers at the labour market. We're holding on to the amazing work that was done in those contracts, securing standard of living, getting through this downturn in a responsible way, and making wonderful results. I just wanted to say, this is the very essence of this discussion today, and that made me feel a little bit of a subject that would be like an advertisement on a used car that only had fresh air on the tires. Of course, we can pick up a number of adjustments in the budget proposals, and my two colleagues of a greater portion who have spoken earlier today have done so very well. I don't think there's any particular reason why we lose out on one another, but there's a few things I want to add in that discussion. First, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we're expanding between discussions for a big job and a big job that the Board of Directors is attacking, which is promoting electronic administration, 350 million. K. I think and I know that this is probably one of the best conveniences the government can perform in its modern business and is totally timely. We have a digital community. Of course, public service must be performed there. We now have a communication system in the country that is capable of providing citizens with the ministry in this way. I'm not a specialist in that field, but I'd like to specifically mention the official administration of Estonia, which I'm told is to be more or less digital; forms, applications, and communication with the public exceed the Internet. This then lays the basis for another and the big change that we're going to look at in front of, and the government is working on, which is a job without a location, which I believe can become one of the greatest revolutions in the long term, and we're getting a good fit into the development of identifying jobs in the government and not necessarily setting up for us where the employee wants to live. Few things will change society more than digital services. That's why there's 350 million. K. In order to improve work in that area, it is of enormous importance. While more of the legal committee is pleased with their government, more part of the government also gives us the support, that is, our role. What I shall draw them out as I feel we need to support, and we say it, and, in fact, we're very expressive about it in our committee party, are the affairs of nursing homes. A financial committee has made a significant contribution to nursing care matters, and although we do not have large legal decisions from the Committee that this time we make financial contributions for nursing homes, we say in our panels that in order to achieve the objectives of the Treaty that we will be well informed of the next financial programme that will come in preparation for the Council of Springs to carry out our analysis work and a fundamental in order to reverse the development of a nursing home in recent years. We'll walk to it with our eyes open. We know the accounts of such homes, and the problems that many rural communities are dealing with because of, and not all of them have managed to run on the right side of the line. But this is much bigger than it can be done in a few months to reverse it, and many governments have had it. Therefore, in our spring financial programme, we make our suggestion that the health - care minister is going ahead of a more targeted work in this area. We are also gathering ways that can help to improve the area of nursing homes, such as changing the cost of household medication. That proposal comes directly from the review of the enterprise's Association for Social Services, i.e. that family members who live in nursing homes simply hold their public rights for the subsidies of drug expenses so that there will be no difference between the inmates and the members of the household, depending on their medical expenses and the financial situation of the nursing home. I think this is a very important point, though only because we think about individual independence and their right to enjoy community assistance when necessary. This will balance the situation of a nursing home. On the one hand, we will review and review other facilities and discuss why the State needs, for example. Always building all the nursing homes. Why is the ministry not to be performed differently than that older citizens or those who receive nursing care or ecology evaluations can simply contribute to their dwellings and meet them with a service that is entitled to them? I don't think there's one solution we're supposed to watch. We should not just watch extra donations for the nursing home. We are to view a much larger system change, and much more suggestions and much more that improve the business of this important class. It is certainly in the government covenant, and as a result, a majority of the legal committees are now sending darts to their government to put their personal arms around it in the process of managing financial programs. It really rhymes with the kind of work we've taken care of on the financial issues, i.e. Letting the budget solve the change of policy and focus, that we are not dealing with it on a budget bill in the fall. In the fall of a financial bill, economic development is primarily the development of the first year of financial planning and the frameworks laid there. In addition to this, I'm going to mention that on the budget and our new proposals, there is a new agreement with the church and financial dealings between state and church. The reality is that with confirmation of this financial bill, we are confirming that agreement. This was shown in earlier discussions today as to why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said that a body of sheep had questions about various aspects of that agreement. This agreement was broken in the collapse and has not been resolved. We have been reacting each year through financial contributions, correcting contributions to the church, and making contributions not only to the church but also an adjustment to a slight increase in parish pay. I think it's a big phase when we can confirm this new agreement because the Church is one of the institutions of this community and is important to us, and it's important to get it to the right place and in normal relations. We had, as I said, questions about the standards of the agreement, how he then deals with public financial laws on the length of a contract. I was referring today to an counter-contractive response from the Ministry of Justice, a very clear answer that turned to our concerns, the length of the agreement, to what part of the agreement would be responding, to changing circumstances as a result of the decisions on the church's salary due to changes in the law of advice and other aspects of this important relationship between state and church. Then, in this room, we can disagree completely about the opposite of that agreement. I'm not there. I'm not saying there's some incompetent piece of work to be done on that subject, some contribution at a church meeting. This is simply a contract made in 1997. Some 100 years ago, they were assigned to the State, and the government began to pay these contributions to the business of this important work in the country. A respectable president. This is what I would most like to draw into my introductory thoughts in this discussion, now that it is late at midnight on this first day of the 2nd. the budget and budget of the next year. I can't let it go, though, to mention just two more things because it has come up in the discussion, and I want to correct certain misunderstandings. On the one hand, there are contributions to the Air Development Fund that are reduced from year to year, which is simply because there is an abundance of funds in that budget. There is nothing to be said about flying development funds being able to fulfill their role. Second, I'm going to mention more of the legal committee's proposal for renting or buying an air base or enlargement of Akureyri air stations I know about. paritaprevir Our next conversation will be further understood by Friðbertsson Friiðtirsson. What is left up to this discussion and review of the fiscal bill this fall in the morning. The budget, and I'll be more and more thinking about the interest rate of the state's budget. I can see the picture somehow so that we have little debt. We have really changed our debt status in an incredibly short period of time. I'm not going to explain how it was done. We have an excellent credit rating of the state funds recently raised. We have a wealth of money in an economic strong country, which is still paying enormous financial expenses and I don't feel like going together with a movie. How can it be that as strong a government fund with as little debt, as much credit as he has to pay for such financial expenses as he does? Without necessarily knowing the answer to what might happen there, it is indeed a project for a financial committee and for the Ministry of Economics to study and see if we are doing this commitment or expenses correctly. I don't know the answer, if I'm wrong in mentioning this, but what's left behind is the work of a legal committee in this fall, we need to get a better hold of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Hv. A senator introduced tax reductions and changes in tax steps, tax steps increase. Now, I'd like to state that we in the Central Party are, of course, in favor of taxes. Iceland is a high tax country, and it is time for us to consider further reducing taxes on people and businesses in this country, and there is room for that now that government debt has improved substantially in recent years, as well. A senator came in. First, I'd like to ask who. A senator for the design of these laws of the government. It is claimed, and set in a manner of premonition, that taxes are being reduced, and their added income paid at the lowest by ten thousand dollars. in a month with these suggestions. However, various fees are being raised. These include, for example, The carbon bill, the payment for extraction fund, the increase in alcohol and tobacco, the services, and the government's fees. This, of course, affects and reduces these tax reductions, reducing the provision of those whom we are talking about in particular. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Senator: Is it not reasonable to consider the loss of net taxes? What is really the reduction in taxation after considering these ups, e.g. Just government reimbursement? All government expenses rise by 2.5% next year. Isn't it a little off the public by putting it this way, i.e. reduces the taxes on this much, or 1 0,000 times. in provisional revenues, but then there's a lot of fees to raise back? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his answer, and I am very welcome to answer these questions. I would like to point out that, first of all, we do not argue that we are speeding up the previously proclaimed income taxes. That's a big story, really. Hv. A senator then mentions other extenuating increases in expenses. Then I'd like to say that because of the biography agreement I quoted earlier, and I'm so terribly important, there are certain goals for raising remuneration. The government stays within their boundaries. The cost as long as it takes. A senator does not follow inflation, as has often been so that most of the expenditures are due. A senator may actually say that there is an additional tax increase because it does not adhere to prices. They're lowering real value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This was a very peculiar explanation, so to speak, that there is an additional tax increase when various government charges are rising. I think it's honest to come in such a way just to say that the tax reduction is, taking into account the financial fees, that a lot. It's not 10,000 bucks. It may be in the wake of a $66,000,500,000 charge. It would be more honest to act like that. Another thing about this relationship that I wanted to include in my speech with each other. An officer is an tax system change, increasing one tax step. The independent party has repeatedly been presented in such material, and many times it has been published by him in a talk and in writing that it is necessary to simplify the tax system. We in the Middle East are its spokesmen. But then I ask, Is it not completely at odds with the independence party's policy? A senator, increasing his tax steps? It complicates the tax system and may offer additional avoidance. This is at odds with what the Independence Party has said and proclaimed, and it would be good to get past it. A senator how it is to find such suggestions that are, in fact, contrary to the ideologies proclaimed by the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u131	Madam President. I'm not surprised. A senator may have felt that the original answer I gave him earlier was about the rise in the state's records. The reality is that we have more often than not allowed these expenditures to come with the general price of development. We don't do it now, and that's why it's a disaster. I know it's strange to many members of the council that the government will lower taxes, and there's hope that when that happens, they'll be surprised in front of you. Hv. A senator calls for honest answers, and I shall be honest with his second question about whether we're trying to complicate the tax system: Yes and no. That is an honest answer. We certainly speak for simple tax systems and reductions in tax steps. Sadly, the Independence Party has no greater strength than it has, but it would be better if it were greater. We did so in a government that used to reduce tax levels. I don't know why. A senator was the sponsor of that government at the time, even though there is a secondary issue in the matter, which leads to a conclusion. biographies to achieve specific targets for managing the lowest wage in the country and ensuring real compensation. If it's the way it works, we're going this way, so it's those senators here who don't particularly agree to take this step this time. We believe, however, that there will continue to be taxes. It's quite remarkable, and I'm a little surprised by the fact that in this discussion today, there should be no more discussions about the revenues and the tremendous numbers involved in these activities in addition to previous decisions on tax reductions in this year's trip. That's a lot of news to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before his speech earlier. I singled out that he spoke of a nursing home and would like to ask him if he was pleased with what is presented in the committee's list of parts of the legal committee. It is written on page 19. 14th with President's permission: A vast majority of nursing homes are fired at the angle of year after year... Bottom of the same chapter says, with permission of the president: A greater part of the financial program was suggested by a minister to appoint a parapolitan committee that would cover business and future arrangements for the construction and management of nursing homes. The majority of these suggestions reiterate and point out that for the next financial programme there must be some options for domestic management problems. A nursing home at an individual's expense must be needed at a rate of 203/40%. This has been a problem year after year. If we look at this, it's really weird, considering that the nation's growing older and that it's going to be more and more of a problem. They're going to set up a committee about something that's known to be needed to deal with. I'm just asking, "Why is this not being addressed immediately in the budget bill as required by the services of an enterprise?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u133	Madam President. I appreciate that answer. Hv. A senator asks if I am pleased with this text of the committee's opinion. I can only say, "Yes, I am. I am largely author of him. " In my speech earlier, I explained that more of the legal committees were to take care of the next financial work, which is then a financial programme in the spring, what message we send to the Board of Directors, what it should be prepared to do. It's all right. A member of the body reads from the committee's opinion, and we agree that many homes are being fired with a loss year after year. However, there is not just an increase in contributions to a nursing facility that will adjust that position. It's totally unsuspecting to approach this party in the way that has been done so far. That is why we make it over and over again and have had conversations with the highest degree. A health minister to initiate the work of identifying and putting his arm around the problem or task in a cross - political fashion. We'll never figure it out. A senator, by building more nursing homes and by delivering them in the way that we do today and even if we would raise them. It'll be totally automatic to the length. We need to look for solutions, and that is what we feel about ourselves. In addition, I can mention that we work out our years so that we are also using the facilities that have already been built. There is still another 210 living space left in Icelandic nursing homes. The ideals that nursing homes have been offered so far, putting in two living quarters, and getting one supply of health care, as it is well expressed in the opinion of the people from Floki and this budgetary bill, are certainly not the way to improve nursing operations. [[The president calls.]] Hence, our primary focus is to make better use of the investments we already have and then to carry on with this grand project that it truly is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the answer and agrees with him in this way so that he will have to do something. It is unacceptable for the older citizens of this country to be in lost homes year after year. There must be a record of service to the individual, and of course, they have the right to receive a perfect ministry and should not have to live up to its procrastination. Something else I'd like to ask you. A senator and he just promised the biographer agreements. He was very happy to get them, and that's understandable, but does he also agree that life - making contracts apply to all but older people and disability? Is it his policy to separate them from what needs most? Older citizens and disability do not get biographies or get paid development; they are at most given an index raise, and this has been in operation throughout the history of this government. Hv. A senator spoke of new air on the tires. As I look at it, by the way they treat the poor and older citizens in biographies, the good old four - party air is on their decks and they're burning on them. Clearly, this air is to be used to control older citizens and disability, as has been done in recent decades with huge tax increases. If we look in the rearview mirror until 1988 when the local pay was taken up, the fact is that in that case, pensions were tax free and the lowest wage was tax-free. Now it's $35,000,440,000. tax in minimum salary. Thus taxation has greatly increased, and at the same time, correction of the hearthlining has not returned to these groups. That's what I'm talking about. A senator accepts that? Does he think it's normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-12-30.u135	A respectable president. I'll thank you later for the answer. Senator. He started by saying that the nursing homes'tilt could possibly suffer from service to the members of the household. I'm gonna let me doubt that. I think the managers of the household will do all they can to provide the services they are assigned to provide, and the necessary services are necessary. On the other hand, I have sympathy for local communities, who have had to contribute in an increasing measure from their income to pay for the sliding of these households. I find it totally self-involved and impatient because this is a large part of the money that the local community has to pay for, whether it is for investment or improvement in its operations, which is already the clock to run a nursing home that is not truly its task. Hv. A senator then leads the discussion to the interest of older citizens and disability. For one thing, I'm going to say that I'm sorry about the changes we made in older citizens' environments in a negative light because we know and have to admit it. A senator, for the most part, has improved substantially in recent years. On the other hand, we always act like those who are the worst in the world. We should talk primarily about those who have the slightest compensation. We haven't reached a system modification point for the microchip, which is a shame. That's what we're going to protect in this budget 4 billion dollars. and I hope we can get on with that conversation. Hv. The chairman of the budget board reported in his history today how a financial committee proposes to meet for years in the budget. We need to be able to approach this discussion more fairly than we have often done, for we have truly improved the interests of older people in this country.
