ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u1	Hv. All council members. Before we go to the program, I want to express a special pleasure in the International Assembly program of the Festival of July and yesterday's 75th anniversary of the republic. In the Assembly Hall, a meeting was held by young people who, in all places, were outstandingly successful. The young men were magnificent, and to our credit, we, of course, will make it a vow to discuss the conclusions of those approved at the meeting. How glad we can be that we take people who have so much material as we saw yesterday! In fact, the president was eager to find out if it was not advisable to assign these young people to care for the end of the council this time. Yesterday afternoon there was an open house here at the General Assembly. On a total of four thousand visitors came to visit the Assembly Hall. In this winter of council, i.e. On December 1, when a house was opened, as was today on July 17, the International Assembly Hall had a total of some 6,000 visitors. What a joy it was to receive our guests and to meet the positive attitudes that this house has in the minds of the people of the land, as well as to witness the gentlemanliness that everyone showed! I thank the general members of the council who could visit the Assembly Hall yesterday, hear the Young People's Congress, and then receive visitors and guide them through the house. Especially I would like to thank the staff of the Generals for the preparation they have taken care of and the security and guidance it has done yesterday. Some of the six hundred workers were working here, and if they had otherwise deserved and had a welcome Sabbath, they would have had it done well. There is reason to rejoice on behalf of the General Assembly over their share in these celebrations on the Republic's 75th birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u2	Borist has received a letter from the following hired counsellors who are requested to provide written answers to queries, from the foreign secretary for the requested application. 1087 on committees, groups, professional groups and Ministry advice, from Inga Sæland, and on the threshing floor. 1571, with regard to expenses and the use of general and custom software from the Ministry and embassy, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. This is from the secretary of transportation and the secretary of state for the trinkets inquiry. 1564, on expenses and the use of general and custom software at the Ministry and its subsystems, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Finally, six letters from the Ministry of Education and Culture have been received due to inquiries on the subject. 1536, on the rights of children of relegated centres and children of candidates for international protection for study, from Jón Þór Ólafsson to sk. 1355, for the role of the National Intelligence Committee, from Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér; on deck. 1321, of high school rents, of Elíasdóttir Flandish, the daughter of Elijah; of threshing. 1,455, about offices and office managers at the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson; on a threshing floor. 1566, on expenses and the use of general and custom software at the Ministry and its subsystems, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on the threshing floor. 1600, on the payment of a pension fund from student loans, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u3	Borist has received a letter from the Prosecutor of the Central Party to the 6th. We're out of Suðvest. "Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, can't do any re-election next time. So it is requested today that Nanna Margrét Gunnlaugsdóttir be seated at the General Assembly, third of the Central Party's list of members in the district. Guards up above the list have been calling incursion. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a ballot for Nanna Margrét Gunnlaugsdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u4	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A board of directors and patrols has come together to review the campaign of Nanna Margrét Gunnlaugsdóttir, the 3rd Middle Council member of the Southwestern District. In agreement with the Commission concluded not to make a comment to the ballot letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u5	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Since Margrét Gunnlaugsdóttir has not taken his seat before in the Council, the commitment to the Constitution is to sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u6	Nana Margrét Gunnlaugsdóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u7	The president proposes that Sigríður Þorgeirsdóttir, attorney and executive, will be already at this meeting temporarily the chief of the committee due to the inadequacy of the nobility of the chief and lips to deal with judges in the province of Smoking and National rights that are being discussed in the Committee now, to the fact that her election as a permanent replacement will take effect on July 21, 2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u8	Mr. President. I understand it this way, if it's approved, that it's preparatory for a bill on death support. So it may be only a matter of time before a discussion of making room for death at the General Assembly, which is not of interest to me because it is very complex, moral, professional, legal, and religious aspects. National sociologists doubt that the Council should agree with death aid. Both healthcare professionals and patients may be in a very difficult situation if death aid is permitted. The surgeon general believes it would be a mistake if the Icelanders received a talk on death aid in the General. The discussion on this issue in the North countries is carried out by a surgeon in the same languages, outside the council, and without pressure. I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u9	A respectable president. We do not vote whether to permit death relief and to legalize it in Icelandic. We are here votes on the request to collect information on how these matters are being handled in neighboring countries and other countries we compare with, as well as on a survey conducted by health - care providers about their attitude in the case of death relief. I can see on the board that it looks like it's approved, and I'm very happy about it, and I'm very grateful to the Senate for it. At the same time, I have to say that it is surprising that certain persons are opposed to taking up information in this way. If the information is on the way in here some senators decide to come back with a bill that would permit death support, they will no doubt be given sufficient space for such discussions, envelopes, and so on. I welcome this stand of the council, allowing this intelligence and reporting, and looking forward to getting a report from the highest level. Secretary of health to the hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u10	Mr. President. Here is a suggestion that we take advantage of the opportunity now to balance the position of the legislature and executive by reducing the high pay of the elected generals and the Ministers. This proposal continues to differ considerably between the salary of the general and the minister, as this is expected to be taken in a moderate way. The proposal assumes that the Minister's salary will be 30% over the salary of members of the Parliament, or contracts, i.e. Double the maximum pressure the Parliament can put on the contract, but the prime minister has 45% stress, i.e. Three times the maximum pressure the members of Congress can put on at a bargain. Hopefully, this will not only help to match the position of the legislature and the executive but also reduce the likelihood that certain classes will yield according to their policies, principles, campaigns, only to obtain a few ministers. I think that if this is approved, it is reasonable to examine the rules on how to get into Congress, including the U.S. taking into account the pressures for the presidents. This is not a big step, but it is a fall to achieve the goals that may include: is described in the terms of the Treaty to balance the position of the Lawgiver with the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u11	Mr. President. The bill presented here for the arrangements of highest office officials is the result of a substantial work in which the government called for the first time the labour market party to talk and policy-makers'pay because this fixed salary has been a constant stumbling block and debate in society, not just for the past few years, but decades. The conclusions of the policies taken in collaboration with three advisers, a representative of the public and general labour market, and a representative of the employment drivers, with a chairman who could be settled, were that it was appropriate to move this arrangement to another country and thus reduce debate over the decision of a panel, which often came at long intervals and included increases over many years. I think this bill, as it looks, will be a big step forward in order to create an increasing labour market stability and, at the same time, create a normal conversation about the country's salary development. The conclusion was also not to interfere with the pay structure proposed in this bill, including because they looked at the group of cowards, took the average pay development there, and carried on pay development in the general market. So these numbers are not snatched out of nothing. There's a lot of work behind it, and I have to say that I don't give a lot of money for any of the proposals presented here, mostly in the interest of the orb, to bring down the ministers and suggest that their integrity is not enough in the profession, it's all about pay. I just don't give anything for it. I think senators should rather look to the work that is behind the report presented here, the work that had been done. The Economic and Business Committee has followed up, agreed to this case, and tried to take one progressive step toward an increased agreement with a labour market without making it a more unnecessary stumbling block. I suggest that the bill be approved and this change in proposal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u12	A respectable president. I have to say only on account of the proposed proposal, and I'm going to try to balance the company's salary with what is going to happen in general at the council. As a result, we can well ask ourselves: " What criteria should apply in accord with the integrity of those who are in the top law of the trident, but so far the prime minister has been looked forward to as close to the highest legal authority in the country. It has also been considered to be the president's position that other ministers were down there. Someone might think so, like a dog. Clearly, a traveller is overcrowded between the Council of Counsel and the Minister. It is then to consider that a few years ago the council made a change in this on the behalf of the officials in a position of government and put a 50% strain on paying them so that they could be at the same level as ministers. It is therefore surprising to listen here during a discussion about such pay differences between stewards and the members of the council that there is a special motivation to throw away their policies and to form a government in order to secure a better standing. With this reasoning, it might just as well be said that the challenge to preeminents is a special incentive to establish a new political party, become president of it, and thus obtain the payment. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I wouldn't argue that someone would ever do that, but this is reasoning on a similar plan, which I don't feel is beneath you. I want to agree with Prime Minister when she says that this is a matter that has been well prepared. There's been a lot of publicity on the committee, and there's been a change in a committee to make an even better deal with that. I've already, as secretary of finance and economics, put in principle about advice and I know how delicate the matter is, we've talked about it many times here. I feel that we have come to a conclusion that we should be able to combine with, and I believe that the proposal given here is not in order to make the matter better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u13	President. I didn't mean to participate, but it's getting a little exciting. If we put things in perspective, the pay of those in authority may, of course, be reduced. As for me and Piratar, we have repeatedly suggested that their salary be reduced by members of Congress and Ministers, since they went beyond the general pay grade when the Council of Elders raised them. It has not been the will of those who contribute this bill to do so, so we're just honest with what's really in the game. At the same time, I have estimated that it is up to two million that we senators have received in our pocket over general pay development - until now that our salary has not gone up from the upcoming body count. So the nation's payuation has been taking hold of us. It's like two million. If people are going to speak honestly and faithfully in harmony with the money, it would be nice to hear what those senators who make this suggestion have done with those two million who have gone into their pockets. I used 1.5 million. K. directly from my pocket to pay for sufficiency advice for this rise that occurred at the time. Exactly what we're talking about here is so silly that it's taken a personal decision, I'd say. That's why we called it a complaint. It is against the law to raise the pay of the highest rulers far beyond the general pay development and, therefore, create some sort of dual system, between the rulers and the common people, who created tremendous ill will. The only good thing that came out of it was, in fact, the fact that a powerful labor leader was born in the country, was able to step in, receive government to the table, and did. Indeed, the prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, over and over again, got them to the table and managed to cross the biographies we did not expect. It would have been best for me political to be able to stand up here, not to have touched all the chicken money, and say, "Hey, here, and no more, you're not putting the law on strike. It would have been very political for me because I didn't touch those silly words. But to come forward in the last minute and suggest such a suggestion after taking all the money into my pocket, I don't think it's particularly demeaning. They're in the middle of this chicken business, like labor leaders wanted, except we weren't supposed to take that money into our pocket. Today, members of Congress are achieving general pay development so that only after this change has been made and a law has been established that we do not go beyond the general pay development, we follow general development - afterward. First the public is raised, then the senators, as should always be, should have made the decisions. So it's a good thing. They're on good terms. All that stands out in this case is if Congress decides to raise itself above what the law says. They could. It is the only thing that I would really say was that it was dangerous in this case; just as after the collapse, it was said that although it was in the laws of disability and older citizens that they should raise according to general pay development, they should be decided on the budget, which is also a law, that they should not rise. These would be hard times, etc. You can do this. But I'd say this was the only thing going on in this case, if we're going to be objective, the only thing that's risking us going back to something beyond a general salary development. If we get this together, we're finally in the country of the CREEP Council and I just want to thank you at the end for all of this because, in fact, we could say that the spring of the task and the powerful labor movement and the biographies are the result of the decision made by a conquistador.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u14	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance apparently missed my speech, perhaps. Be on the phone or something. It's okay, it can happen. But I specifically mentioned in my speech that I would agree that if this were to be the result, things like the prehuman stress would be considered in particular, but the load of directors does not depend on these laws being discussed here. This is primarily a matter of showing that the work of members of Congress is worth much as a minister, in other words, a slight position between the Lawgiver and the Commission, especially the Minister. If the highest. The secretary of finance is concerned that, as the arrangement is now, this could lead to the forming of potential new classes, I would say that they would be unnecessary - if they have fallen short of the promises they make. It may be that political groups, in their old age, end their affairs, stop holding up their campaign promises, stop looking at the position of their grasslands, and then may be a good reason to start new groups, and no reason to place barriers in this regard. On the other hand, about the proselytization rate. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, will only stress that this is not a assessment of what is the proper number of employees under those laws. This is primarily a matter of reducing the great difference between an elected minister and a member of the general council, and hence it sends a message that there is not as much difference as there has been in the respect of those jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u15	President. Very short: If it's about money having an effect on people's lives when they sacrifice their way to biting bites or something like that, I can point out why. paritaprevir Sigmundur's career as Davíð of Gunnlaugsson is that the Piratars have not always accepted the prehuman pressure, so there are precedents to this effect. If the senator wants to set a good example in this regard, he can cancel his prehuman load. At the same time, we've done so that the assistant who is with the head of Pirata's president would benefit from the entire council of his work. Again, it is something that could be used by the senator to set a good example. I just want to mention this in the light of the objective that this proposal is designed to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u16	Mr. President. I appreciate the tips, though they did not defend the main purpose of the proposal. It is always good to receive guidance from bad. Martyrs, who seem to know more about things than most people here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u17	A respectable president. I think it's a little special to make a suggestion that has some concern for the other part of the remuneration arrangement than for the concerned person. A senator himself. That's why I vote against the proposal. I would review that position if the suggestion also dealt with the problem. A senator himself, especially the chairman's position, and something else that might be revised. But in view of the change in the motion, I vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u18	Mr. President. This bill, entitled a bill for Sexual Self - Control, is a great subject in most respects, a bill that, when it becomes law, will bring in an enormously important compensation for the right of individuals to define their own gender. This will protect individuals' rights for physical immunity, and legal rights will not be much more than that. At the same time, this will put Iceland in the front row of this class, the class of gay people, and it is time for us to be there in the highest order in terms of legal status while we are there in many respects of social and social status. This happy situation is particularly due to members of Trans Iceland, Intersex Iceland, and the '78 Conspiracy who have been tireless in speaking for new, altered, and improved attitudes about gay people. The results are actually remarkable, but there is also much to be done. Yesterday I enjoyed sitting here at a convention of young people, where a beautiful group of young people spoke specifically of three topics, health issues, equality, and environment. In the equality cases, there were also some cases. Discuss the issues of gay people, and the talks were the fun stuff, and maybe. We were able to learn from them, in cooperation with everyone coming. What the group had to do there included. a little story about a young boy, 13 years old, who comes to his side and claims to be shot at another boy. The answers he gets are: You're far too young to think about this, to think about such things. The little five - year - old girl who comes to stand up and says she has another reaction: It's so cute. This just shows what we're interwoven with these old attitudes and what time it is to beat a little in the shallows, and that's to do it, on these old deeply entrenched attitudes, including. with this bill. It is invaluable in the struggles of rights and for minorities in general to have such a powerful organization and powerful justice behind them and that it is not only for these minority groups but for the community all, all of us who want to live in an open, liberal, broad - minded society, because we believe that our lives, not just those directly involved, are better. I'm celebrating this bill. However, I'd like to mention just a few disappointments that were not included in the adjustment of the memory of the part of the General and Education Committee on taking out temporary regulations in the bill that instead of making it a point to correct the interests of children born with atypical gender characteristics, a group would be assigned to consider these matters further. I just think it's a complete case. It's just a matter of making a decision. Similarly, the recommendation of the smaller segments to include physicians and health care professionals was not to include a list of such interventions. I will support the case because it is otherwise very good, and I trust that this law will be followed by us, by our attorneys and others involved, that there will be no sleep in this working group. Especially should we guard the rights of this group because this unnecessary intervention is primarily carried out in children, leaving it behind only half the story. I'm going to take the will for the job and believe that this group is going to go through it again, work hard, and get the suggestions for the needed benefits for this group too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u19	President. Well, in short, the case doesn't hold up on Pirata's policy. When I came late into the committee as a backup for work, it was very easy to just go over it. We want all the fishing resources to be offered on the market, and this can be done slowly and slowly without violating the Constitution, as was well done in the long government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, where they were to take back 5% of the year and set up an auction. Thus, over 20 years, the fishing resource would be for a long time, actually rented out by the government of the government. It could also be done over a period of time, ensuring more confidence in this article without continuing to create the dangerous position that humans can begin to view it as some special privilege. We do not agree that mackerel is inserted into the old fishing system. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the processing of the Committee it was found that those who were first to be assigned but were not given the law and that the Supreme Court's case has come up with the idea that they have these rights and that if the government is going to appoint them differently than it should have been done in 2010, their rights to own. The rights of the estate are protected in a constitution, so if there's a way that's going now, I wouldn't be surprised that they'd report a distribution of authority to other people they'd received in 2010. The path that has gone now is the only way I can read, according to the information I have received on the committee, but not to pass the constitution. On that basis, I can't support the case either. I can see why they put this on. It is an extremely difficult situation, one that all of us are in with our fishing system. That should just change it. The result of the process is to move both sides. When was it really possible to get hunting experience? Some were unable to do so in 2010 or before that. Some people are trying to do so, so everyone gets something, but everyone still becomes unhappy with what they receive. As I say, this will not resist Pirata's policy, and I will, of course, vote out of her. I also agree with the policy that the resource should be taken back to the nation and rented at the market for a long time. At last, we've finally got our sustainable cigar. We can get some kind of national agreement that the resources that others use, the value of which they are, really, really get something for the resources they are worth. what men are willing to pay for renting it. So again I show that I can't see that this road is in the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u20	Mr. President. There's been some disagreement on the exchange of fishing warrants in mackerel, and he's been standing over the past few years. Now it looks like the highest. In the United States alone, the top rights of Iceland since December 6, 2018, where an appeal to the appeal of appeals, two companies, has been made to accept that the Icelandic state would be accountable for the cost they might have requested to be assigned to fish ships in their possession to the less effective resources in 2011/2014 than required by law on hunting outside of Iceland's law, the ocean fishing no. 151/1996, as stated in the report on the bill we're discussing here. Following the Supreme Court decision, the Supreme Court decided. Marine and agricultural ministers to appoint groups to review the importance of the judging and to provide advice on the decisions they would need to make. And the company appointed Snæbjörnsson the son of Shenbjörn, chief of the council, and the sheriffs Hulda the Árnadóttir, and Jóhannes Karl the son of Sveinsson. Brynhildur Benediktsdóttir, an economist of the Ministry, worked with the group. It was considered that in the 2019's, the Council's Council of Fishing Regulation, which was based on fishing experience in 2013 (in 2013)2018, would likely result in continued damage responsibility for the State. A minister would also continue to bring back the damage suffered less than they had received on the basis of fishing experience in the years leading up to 2011. Such regulations would thus be based on formal adequate recovery but would, in a material way, maintain an unsaturable condition. Therefore, it would be proper for a minister to use the Council to grant him authority that would prevent further implementation of regulations that brought benefits to the State. President. What sums of money are we discussing? Investment is required for billions of dollars, and that is a requirement for a state lawyer. Very important interests are at stake, not only for the government, but also for the actions that the bill says should take on a 45% decline in the distribution of goods. Yet, a professional health - care committee made pots and fences. The conclusion of the European Court of Human Rights has been published after the bill was published because of the so - called Al Thani case. There, the Supreme Court Árni Kolbeinsson is considered incapable of judging on this matter because of his family ties. His son, Kolbeinn Francis Árnason, worked for the bank's head after a collapse. One of the judges in the mackerel language was Kolbeinsson. According to the recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, it is in my mind that the Árni of Kolbeinsson's son was appropriate for the mackerelcan, in which his son, Sir Kolbeinn the Árnason of Abilan, was the manager of Lús and had considerable success in demanding the state of the land in relation to the macropolitan interests of members in Lúsú, two of whom had legal cases against the State judged by his father. In addition, the Ministry of the Sea Department of Fishing at the Institute of the Sea of Galilee was Árni Kolbeinsson, and as such, he had a rich source of access to the ocean fishing industry since 1996, the whole of which the judgment is all about. As I told you earlier, there are great interests at stake after the Supreme Court's judgment from December 6 of last year's review of the County Court of Reykjavík on the same basis. The County Court of Reykjavík found that the State would be acquitted by the requirement of the project and that the cost of the case would be dropped. After a conversation with what? senators sitting at ease. I understand that the European Court's decision on the inadequacy of the European Court of Human Rights on the Inadequate of the Árni of Sir Kolbeinsson, a former Supreme Court judge, was especially helped to judge the macroll and the potential impact on the Supreme Court's judgment has not been discussed at the Committee's meetings. That's something I find to be strange, Mr. President, and a strange position of interest to the people of the country, when they have national property. I'm here to ask for it. A professional health committee discuss the matter between discussions. Something else would be amazing. You see, we are here to be careful about the interests of the public - or are we not? Sometimes I doubt that this applies to all of us, especially when it comes to matters related to fishing our resources. Of course, if there is a possibility that in this judgment there will be some doubt about the appropriate judges who judged in this case, we should carefully examine that position before this issue is resolved. I'm counting on it. The job committee reviews this matter between discussions. The other is so different that the whole fishing system needs to be transformed and can be taken immediately by accepting a change in the bill in which an invitation to macrollathane is expected. Why should we consider sending out invitations for fishing? In principle, the objective of an invitation is threefold, to increase equality with national involvement, to lower the thresholds for replacements, and to allow the article itself to decide what they want and to be able to pay for the authority instead of the government's right now. Let me remind you of the 1st saying. track No. 116/2006, the management of fishing, is recommended for use in Iceland's European centres to be a partner of the European Union. In the 3rd case, the distribution of fishing documents under law would not be a ownership or unregistered custody of individual sources. For example, when the United States negotiates a fishing project on distant tickets, it is being done for the people of the land, not for the inhabitants of the United States. I think the same applies to the saying. At the same time, the Supreme Court has passed the legal right of the legislature to change the method of distribution on the reservation. I'm in court on trial for the Reconnaissance Centre Corp. Against the United States of England since March 2017, the following is stated, by permission of the president: Then, in the second court, it is confirmed that the legislators can decide that fishing warrants should be added to an appropriate lead period and after events reassigned, as well as to include the right to fish, bound to conditions, or paid for it because of changing views on the provision of the crops. We have absolutely in our hands how we do it, so we do it, so not all said goodbye and bid out, but in certain steps. A representative of the Work Board on the United Nations suggests that there is a change to this matter in which this is explained and suggested that, on the first step, one third of the macroclotans will be issued. Then we will discuss how to assign the two thirds of the items and that a portion of the amount available for the export would flow to the coastal waters. Fair enough. This is what I wanted to say, President, in this discussion here. I reiterate that there are some questions that need to be answered before we settle this matter. I'm not in trouble. The employment committee, but I hope the committee agrees that there is a need to resolve this matter in some way and that the law - trained men in the room will agree with me and assist me when it comes to such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u21	V.E.G. President. For example, I do not have to give a long talk about the fact that in a physical sense I disagree with everything at all. This is also the case with the form discussed in the talk of a suitable judge in the court court that turned the judgment on the district. The question is, What will the council now do about it? Judges evaluate their own proper conduct. I wondered, " How could this determined judge be incompetent because he worked at the High Commissioner for the Sea, and in years past, his offspring worked on behalf of LAX? ' I think it's very farfetched. There's a debate between those who are pursuing a fishing road. There they became involved in interest, and if the judgment had gone the other way, someone else would have said that the judge was incompetent. We can keep talking about proper and incompetent, but I wondered how the Senate should react to it. I see no way for the council to deal with such things properly or incompetently on such a matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u22	Mr. President. Got it. Not a senator's reason to sit down and that the committee involved was merely concerned about the situation after the decision of the European Court of Human Rights was made in another case, as it is concluded that Kolbeinsson Árni's Age was incompetent because of ties with his son Kolbeinn in the case discussed there? This raises questions that I think we need at least To think of us in this situation, that the committee should call counsellors and review the situation. I'm not legal. That's why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, of course, knows more about this case than I do. On the other hand, I have to take a stand like that. A senator and he needs to be prepared for that position. I feel completely irresponsible of what happened. A professional health committee is not merely going over the matter for 30 minutes, even if it is only with experts. It's hard to be silent, as if there are no questions to answer in this regard. It's under billions of dollars. Public interests must be protected by all means. Perhaps this Supreme Court will be invalid because of the suitability of one of the judges, and this will be the expected decision of the province of Reykjavík. The Supreme Court turned the court of justice there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u23	V.E.G. President. I don't think it's right that we senators are discussing legal issues here. Of course, the committees can look at this, and appropriate rules can always be considered and the need to change our personal laws and legal laws. An incompetent judge calls for a very special speech. I can only add this. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg does not invalidate any judgment. We can ask ourselves, " How should I react to special decisions, whether to correct a situation, to change it, and to do so in my mind? ' We must stop thinking that we have some higher court in Europe. We don't have a court like that. We must take into account the conclusion of that court, whether we need to make changes in our lives, to change laws. There may be a reason to turn something into a law, but I don't think it's very risky that the general or professional committee should consider something specific in this particular matter. Men can only ponder in general about the qualifications and inadequacies of judges, those who rule in the administration, etc. There's always a doubt, and we can talk about it forever, but in this case, I think it's a very long way to talk about the inadequacy of the judge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u24	Mr. President. There may well be a problem. A senator feels that it is very extreme, but I demand that this be considered because this is the case with the exact men that were under the conclusion of the European Court of Human Rights in the Al Thani case. I think it's our duty to go over that matter and get experts to discuss the situation. I know why. A senator can't come here to answer me again because we can't stand forever here in a conversation, but I understood why. Is it true that the decision made by the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of the Al Thani case has no bearing on this issue? They would be incompetent, as would not affect this Supreme Court's conclusion. This must be examined and reviewed by the committee, and I hope she will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u25	A respectable president. I come here as a professional committee member, requesting that the case be taken into account between the 2nd and 3rd. to discuss such questions. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir did well in his speech earlier. Otherwise, I'm not gonna extend the discussion, and I'm gonna make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u26	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the change in the fishing law outside of Iceland's jurisdiction, i.e. control on a mackerel. We stand here with a bill suggesting that the fishing market be set up at macroil, but for this time, the control of the population is in place of the regulations of the seafaring ministers, allowing from the Fish House to be held for one year. A bill report says, with permission of the President: It's time to adopt such an organization. However, I allow myself to claim that this is a waste of history. For a long time, there have been more controversy and dissatisfaction among the people of the land. Now is the ideal opportunity to try new ways in these matters. Nevertheless, when it comes to talking about changes and doing nothing to meet the wishes and demands of change here, governments decide to stick their heads in the sand, and nothing is done to ensure that the distribution of resources is done in a more just and stable way than has been established. This is not to say that those who want to change make demands to overthrow the dominant fishing regime or to shut down the peddle system altogether. Criticism focuses primarily on government policying in this regard, not even putting temporary agreements to the test. They take a firm stand against a temporary repartment section in these topics, so it is shocking that among the speakers of the bill, the politicians who have previously spoken for change and to support them in the resource of the nation's property at the same time have been pointed out that this bill will especially be used to treat small boat fishing and smaller productions. Thus, it seems that there have been some transformations, as some have noted in the discussion of this matter, if the proposed proposals are given because temporary markets are the very basis for real national possession. The suggestions we discuss will not be taken into consideration. It is difficult to see how the viewpoint presented here harmonizes with the ideologies that the left green has long been exposed to in fishing. On the contrary, an old system is being established. Furthermore, experts have warned that as time goes on, the rights of non - time sources are strengthened. The government's waning stand against temporary recovery departments is only designed to create an even greater uncertainty with the provision of the resource's national property. This is a protest to the restoration. Instead, we have suggested that the auction take place at temporary markets, as indicated by our adjusted proposal as a conniving senator, an official on a professional committee, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, submitted and recommended. Earlier in the year, we also produced a bill on these topics along with members of the Pirata and the Continental Council, which was proposed to offer up 5% of the resources and bind to 20 years of age. This, in our opinion, is lost to ensure righteous implementation and to underscore national property through the use of the Department's resources, as well as to ensure further visuality and stability in the marine waters. At the same time, the fishing fee, made up of a temporary unit of labor in a free market and, according to the distribution of the projection funds for the country's settlements, was suggested. All of this would have been possible now, all of this would have been simple to do now, and all of this would have been right to do now. Instead, there is the government bill under the premise of command of command of standby and standby. Even if you have stopped being surprised, you can be disappointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u27	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the fishing law outside of Iceland's jurisdiction, about the control of marauding in a mackerel. Only in this discussion would I want to come up here and discuss the challenges the committee had in this case. It was difficult to meet the viewpoints in this difficult situation, one of those who had the first and longest experience and the shorter ones, like the miniboats. The main initiative in the work of the Committee was to try to get some reconciliation on this issue, where all routes were considered. I have to admit that I may have believed in my childish belief that those we were working for were working for and accepting the findings of the Committee, although we had certainly realized that we had to reach out quite far in every direction to make sure that everyone was happy, who was meant to be unattainable. That is why I am very surprised to learn that even now groups have threatened a lawsuit in this case. I am deeply concerned and puzzled about how I can handle this matter from the council. It has been going very far, wearing out 4,000 tons of pots for small boats to hunt. This ensures that people who have caught macroil in recent years can continue to do so. That certainly was a cutoff for those who had a goal in that group. It was also an attempt to secure their interests, but of course it was not possible to take from this pot and move it over to them personally despite the request and the fact that you are under accusation not to have any understanding of the matter by refusing to transfer almost endless resources to the boats. Of course, that was not possible. There's billions of value to the projecting, and I ask, "Can you never get enough?" We have been having problems with this subject, and it may need to be reviewed. I wondered if it would have been right to postpone this case for a while to see if it could be settled so that the State would not be accepting a law that required a legal application by those given sources for billions of dollars. There is also another issue related to this, the label charge that is set on a used ship that has prevented the eviction of fishing vessels and that they can go fishing in other countries. How sad it is if before the end of the council we fail to bring it into the council and finish it! In the fall of that year, a case was presented that has not been made to appear but can be of great importance not only to the funerals but to the sailors who have missed their fur farms and lost much of their annual income. It is important to put these men and ships in the waters of a foreign land, earn experience, and make income that will depend on what this clock cost, though, is, of course, very burdensome for the fishing projects there has been. I had to say my feelings on this matter. I don't think that despite the good wishes of the Committee, all of us, to go along with the way that might be as bad, it was actually the worst group ever to carry out their grief and say anything, and that's those who had rented away their sources as those who had hired the labor department. I have to admit that in the final half of the discussion on this matter, I'm just very unhappy with the treatment it makes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. One of the Parliament's talks was sincere. I cut it after a while. A senator wondered whether it would be right to postpone the case and to do more. There have been others who have talked about it, and one of the things that have been used to push the matter forward is that it has really come up to that emergency because of some uncertainty, so I call for speculations. A member of the committee who is well aware of these matters over the years is whether the fact is that we are here, a body of Congress, at the wall of this matter now, a matter of vital importance, and not at peace. Would there be any point in using time during the summer to look at this and work further? I'd like to hear a little thought about it from a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. I just have to say, as it is, there's no time left. We've lost him. There's got to be some law about this fishing. That's what we were trying to do. We stretched as far as we could, just like I said. Sadly, the good will of the committee somehow went down into a very large number and especially those given resources. I thought they were going to be reasonable. I know that great interests are at stake, and that's why it's also my requirement and that at the moment these resources are assigned, you don't stand in a pit for not getting enough. On the other hand, I think we're running out of time. Fishing will begin soon, and it is important to finish the case. I'm not going to run away, but I still felt that I had to say what was in my heart. This is not the policy of the Independence Party or anything, it's just my thinking and my concern that when we work at the council on something as delicate as the provision of resources, no one may feel enough of all the valuables they are creating. That's what I'm primarily saying here and expressing my dissatisfaction with the welcome we receive for it, but of course not from the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u30	Mr. President. First and foremost, I want to thank the Council for making such a clear stand in this legal case for people who have long been allowed to wait for the rights of themselves to make decisions about their own sex. I'm very grateful. A global and educational committee for the work she's been putting into it to create a greater sense of harmony and solidarity. I also know that this bill doesn't answer all the questions, but yet it's a very big step forward to ensure rights, perhaps not a large but important group, because we're all people and we're all supposed to enjoy these rights. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u31	Mr. President. It's with great joy that I hereby vote with a bill to legalize sexual autonomy. This is an extremely important case of rights. This is an extremely important human rights issue. How important it is that individuals can define their gender! The discussion of these matters will continue in the community. This bill will include groups of people, and I have high hopes that we will be even further advanced in these matters. It's very happy that we're now accepting these laws, and I'll say it again: it's with great joy that I'm here on the yes-button.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u32	A respectable president. I agree that it is a pleasure to stand here and participate in a vote on this big, important legal matter. The Independence Party concluded at its last national meeting on the importance of Iceland's leading issues in gay people and that we should be on the front row with ambitious sexual laws. That law would require individuals to decide their own gender, and that is what we approve here today. I'm glad to see how many green lights are on the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u33	Mr. President. We vote for a bill to correct a social help and social security law (addressing and handling the job). To make a long story short, it is my opinion and council group to discuss a good case, which still has the limit that after much labor, a small mouse is being born. However, mice are good in this case, and we will vote with the bill, although we would have liked to see further progress, and further comment on how this case is being handled, at what time it comes in, and how little was heard in the last stages of a microorganism interest organization that had a lot to do with the implementation of this case. I would also like to make a comment to the experiment made by a minister to try to slip into the issues of those indignities at special forwards and to add accidents to the impairments, so I think that there may be a certain reminder: I don't think we should be doing very complicated things at the council, but rather try to simplify them so that we understand them. [[The president calls.]] But this is the right step in the right direction, so we say yes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u34	A respectable president. Here we are taking steps to reduce a cent to a dollar that has been in the system for microenergy pensioners. I especially rejoice that this step has taken place. Sadly, this group was left behind in 2016 and has waited for way too long. I agree with those who have said it here. However, a fixed policy has been set now, a policy aimed at implementing a new and modified and simpler social security system. These changes are part of it, and I'm especially happy for it. Here we are making arrangements for the amount of money set aside for the seminary of the current year's budget. I want to thank you too. The welfare committee for how fast she worked this case, and they confirm that this case is late due to the long divorce between this committee. Better coverage would have been needed, and so did the. ... notthroughcommunicationswords. I thought it was important that this case go into the council and could become a law that is happening right now, and that is, in fact, the case. for the quick response of both the welfare committee and the Senate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u35	A respectable president. Here's one little step. I'd like to remind you of what we saw yesterday when our young people had a meeting in the Assembly Hall. Here, a young boy came up and was talking about exactly what we're talking about today, 65 a ton of money, saying that a social minister actually ate the slice but left the crust behind. Again, we are struggling with a crown against a dollar's impairment. In effect, this continues to prevent this particular group from reaching the workforce. It's better than nothing, the only wickeder than nothing, so, of course, we say yes, but this has been on the mark since the Regulation of the autumn 2008, the only group of people, probably in the world, who enjoy such impairment. This impairment was eliminated by older citizens on January 1, 2017, and I hope it is at least The goal is that we don't have to look at this much longer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u36	A respectable president. Here it is taking an important step, although, of course, it may always be called a bigger one. There is an increase in pay for disability of less than 3 billion this year and a longer period of 4 billion on a yearly basis. The situation improved as a result of contingency. The welfare committee, but it is important that we continue to improve the quality of those who fail. On that journey, the current government is in the country. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u37	A respectable president. We're shrinking a penny to a hundred and sixty-five across against a dollar. There's no use for the blues. This could be done with a single letter for senior citizens - and what is actually worse for this problem is that these declines are made for taxes. So it's not a good thing. It sucks to know that we always have to do micro-pigs at the least. Once again, and the thing I'm most afraid of is that a dollar should never be received completely, but only to put in place one third, because there is no more than four billion for the next year. As a result, there is only one third to be legalized. It sucks to know, but it's got to be said yes because a desperate person can't wait. They have to have everything they can get, but it sucks. Yet, I hope that it will be arranged that way to cover the cost of a dollar.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u38	A respectable president. Righting the matter of disability is a matter of priorities, morals, and values. The government has painted itself to a corner in its dealings with this group and is now singing out a runt, although it has cut about One quarter of what was supposed, more than 1 billion, would likely have been enough to reduce the decrease to 50 dollars per dollar. The problem is not the biggest problem for someone who gets cut off by earnings. It is the most serious in those who have no money that can be affected, who live on unemployment benefits and who do not have a chance and who will not have a chance to do business. The mask is an immediate rise in basic life span and the simple system. A respectable president. It's a crazy move. I'm sorry. I'm getting closer to being a mere humiliation. I'm thinking about this whole thing, but I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u39	Mr. President. A precise assessment of the appropriate size of depositors and investors has not been conducted. The Union believes that, in view of the 2008 economic collapse, it is dangerous to reduce the pricing of members of the partner when there is no connection with the overall work to be done and therefore to support the Nitecular Association's opinion on the matter. Hv. Since we don't agree, we, consumers, customers of the bank, have to make sure that the space that will be created for the better of the depositors, and there is nothing other than the surveillance of our consumers that can take care of it. Is there room to increase financial profits, or does it lie with consumers? We need to keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u40	Mr. President. We're here paying votes for bill to correct the conversion of Iceland's Fishing Act, No. 151/1996 (concerned by macroil). It's even here. voted for my new proposal, which is in accordance with our group policy, that one third of the macroclotans will be offered according to a procedure that the Minister would decide by Regulation. It emphasizes that we will consider a minister to be a ministerial servant for the Executing experience in the macrotics, but their arrangements have been very successful. At the same time, we suggest that half of the revenues made at the auction flow to the Slurpee Fund of rural society that cares for the exchange of incomes. This is particularly important to our communities, but it is quite important to realize that these changes, along with technological progress over the past few years, have led to significant marine eco-efficiency with a reduced number of activities and problems with the inhabitants of the marine environment in many parts of the country. Mr. President. I got it. I got it. The U.S. Senate to accept our decision to change in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u41	Mr. President. We vote for a fishing board on a mackerel. Granted, there are excerpts as to the best way in which the government of macroil fish is used, but we stand before the Supreme Court Court, which includes the gathering. to the point that it is not legal to govern the crisis by regulations, as it has been for the past 11 years. Here's a law scale and share line on mackerel and a left green remark to the case as it was supposed to be. We in the greater part have gained a solid agreement on improving the situation. We've divided the system into two categories, by fishing tools, by hand and line groups, and by other groups. We've put a fence in between, and we've put a cab 4,000 tons for the smaller category, handler, and line. I believe that the matter was handled well, so that there is more equal between those who hunt on lines and hooks and on the oceans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u42	Mr. President. We are faced with a unique opportunity. In the bill on the exchange of fishing warrants at macroil, we now have the opportunity to correct the injustices that have resulted in the exchange of fishing warrants, the injustice that today is built into the fishing system. We have the opportunity to take on this matter a small but important step toward increasing justice, wealth, and sustainability. A small step, though, involves a large declaration of the willingness of governments and members of the council to make long - term agreement on the use of the resource. The proposal made by the council here votes for reasonable distribution of fishing warrants, does not result in any difference in economic damage, and confirms the right of the nation to their resources. The binding of markets and auctions to parts of the market, but not to the approval of politicians, is indistinguishable to be more profitable for national preparation and company of this article. [[The president calls.]] I'm running here, especially towards the groups responsible for marketing solutions. It would be a mistake for the council not to seize the opportunity now and vote with the proposal, for we do not know when it will be next. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u43	Mr. President. That was the correct comment from the president on the value of the article. The Congress has now taken the chance to begin, even in small ways, a fair exchange for fishing, but of course, the article, as it is now, is now, where the whole name of depositer has been dropped out of the bill, really unnecessary, and so is it unnecessary to sit behind those votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u44	Mr. President. All the activities involved in nature are a matter of nature and therefore are a matter of nature's protection. Natural protection is not the opposite of innovation; it is the basis for all innovation. Natural protection is a innovation policy and the opposite trend is a destructive policy that is going to empty the resources for temporary growth. All too long this has been the dominant policy here on land, in our dealings with the land, whether by agriculture, which has been characterized by an eschatological excess, or by a policy of industry. Nature doesn't exist for us and for us, but nature has real value in itself. Similarly, when it comes to the use and enjoyment of these gifts, nature's gifts are unfathomable and human intelligence. Fishing is an environmental environment, and this is how it should be approached, not on the basis of job structure. True, it is at the same time a human environment, a social environment, the standard of living in places where construction takes place and is planned, while at the same time at the stake of the environment that we, the inhabitants of the country, have certain obligations to which we must meet. We must not be overly disturbed by the ecosystems that we engage in or contribute to irreversible damage, such as the occurrence of differences or even the extinction of species. In this regard, the commitment of Icelanders under national rights to the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity since 1992, which is often called the Rio. This cannot be avoided in the setting of this sector but must be a guide to the legislature. While food is important, food production is becoming increasingly important in times of increasing self - sustainability, food production must also meet all demand for sustainability. Fish farming has already been a major source of resources for settlements that are due to a small range of employment conditions, but the laws can never be done on that basis alone. There must be an environmental principle, the rule of caution, forever to be in place. There's a delicate balance here in nature. You can't take any chances here. This is also government policy, as I understand it, but in a government contract, it says, by permission of a president: A growing industry, which includes opportunities for work development, has to be developed with extreme caution in line with the advice of scientists so that biodiversity will not be threatened. It's perfectly clear. Hv. In many ways, a job committee has done a good job and improved this bill. She has considered more natural protection issues than previously included in the bill, but it was extremely successful. The Environment Minister had no access to the bill in his day. The Commission's declarations go in an effort to increase their safety. In particular, there is the legalisation of the risk-benefit assessment of genetic preparation. It is suggested that Merological Research Institute be made mandatory in terms of genetic management because it is possible to raise the amount of fertile salmon allowed in seashells at any one time. In accordance with local legislation, the overall production in each area depends on the available carrier tolerance assessment and the production volumes in individual business practices. The aim of risk assessment is to prevent potential damage to wild crops and to allow the risk assessment to result in irreversible damage or a risk to sustainable use of wild stocks, when the number of feeders in fish water is increased above certain thresholds. The members of the body say, on permission of the president: ▪ The Committee made some comments on the genetic assessment. Describe a lot of anxiety over the effects of farming genetics in wild crops, pointing out that studies have shown that such genetic mixtures have a negative impact on the course of life and the potential of wild strains to cope with long - term changes in the environment as a result of genetic changes. It also came up with a view to the need for anxiety about genetic mixtures because of the impaired ability of farm fish to reproduce in nature, as well as the overrated claims of the effect of genetic mixtures. Mr. President. This could have been a clearer word, a more pronounced position on this matter of opinion. The Committee points out that genetic mix risk assessment will be largely improved by an independent organisation, that the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) should use a light control to try to prevent fish from escaping and using a larger amount of fish that aims to delay puberty. There is also talk of government fines and improved surveillance by the Food Organization. However, this does not change the principle that this is a fertile, Norwegian salmon species which is an alien species in the Icelandic environment. The examples prove that fish always escape to nature and can travel for a year in which they can mix with wild strains that have developed and developed in thousands of years and have specific traits that are likely to be lost during mixing. There has been some discussion of the consultation committee expected in the bill. At four years of age, she is appointed to represent the stakeholders, scientists, and politicians in the province and then appoint a minister of pointmen according to his own head. Thus, it is a political committee that makes it easy to make a major object against scientific caution and protection. The role of the committee is also the case. evaluating the basis and processing of the data on which genetic management is based, i.e. that the stakeholders and political representatives should have the scene for their decision-making efforts. It is very dangerous for stakeholders to get such an environment to influence scientific work and to reduce their independence. In this way, stakeholders can undermine scientific conclusions that are unacceptable. According to the United States, it may have been a real danger for such a consultation committee to become a busy and aggressive person and to be viewed as a form of fish farmers who have scientists to say. Although the last word of the EEC is according to the bill and should take a logical stand for the opinion and make changes in its proposal, as if it were a reason, there is no question that this can create a significant amount of pressure and part of the work of scientists. More of it. The employment board agrees that it is abnormal not to represent nature protection issues in this consultation committee, but rather than suggest that a representative of the independent environmental protection organization has been proposed to represent the Environment and Resource Ministry as an agent. It's like a lot of things go wrong. A professional committee is saying that Guðmundur In Guðbrandsson will be a minister of the environment forever or a fellow such as we all know is his role in protecting nature's protection and environment. But there is no remote possibility that, for example, in the seat of a environmental minister will one day become a politician who, for example, will become a politician. wants to go about the business of fish farming companies, and then the relevant person would know how to conduct his orders in the consultation committee accordingly. I strongly recommend that the body of Congress agree to the proposal of a smaller part of the employment committee, where it is referred to as ensuring scientific security and marine research centres the need for room to build professional risk assessment, as the credibility of this article is at stake. In addition to a representative of an independent nature - protection organization, rather than the Environment Minister, the minority suggests that genetic risk will be avoided by the government. The smaller parts also discuss in their careful opinion that the Narcotic Institute certainly needs scientific care and that its methodology is a more professional criticism. Therefore, it suggests that the independent scientific committee will be formed in the field of fish studies, in the development of genetics, and/or genetics to study theology of the Marine Research Institute in the assessment of structural tolerance and risk assessment. This committee gives its opinion and suggestions for Ministers on May 1, 2020 and Ministers will submit a report on the findings of the Committee and their response to them. This proposal is virtually consistent with the proposal of more than one part of the body considered it important that the committee be appointed foreign, independent, and thus suggest the above. I think it's a reasonable suggestion. Hv. A job commission has done fine work in many ways, but it does not change the fact that it is to have huge fish farms in open water. Changes in the memory of the part include incentives to speed up changing to sealed heifers, since rapid development and innovation have been observed in this field, especially in Norway. Excessive force has also been observed in a study of the production of a dryfish and is about to begin experimenting with such sea fires in Eastern Europe. To further contribute to this development, the less part contributes also to the environmental protection of marine farms raised for open heifers. Mr. President. Natural protection is a modern policy, and any other trend of innovation must be guided by nature. The economics of nature protection and society are being met, also in this case, for it is a great deal for society to become a stable and sustainable state in the fish fire. That stability is achieved by placing nature's interests first in life. Walking on the environment affects the fish farm, which affects society. It is urgent that the eye is kept alert by the lack of major fish farming in Norwegian, fertile salmon on wild settlements in this country and that waste waste from the work does not affect marine life. In this regard, it should be noted that just one of the world's most productive fishing grounds is just ahead of the west, although the use of them did not become useful to our communities, showing the wisdom of our efforts in fishing management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u45	Mr. President. In every business that can be linked to some kind of primary product comes from nature and nature protection. That is the case with reference to why. The environmental and transport committee on the so-called fish farms discussed here interests me because I helped write it. This statement is primarily about the environment as it was supposed to turn away from the committee. I'm going to put out the review, not all of it, and I'm going to explain the main part of the contents. We received eight visitors before the committee and listened carefully to what they had to say. A branch such as fishing is a major challenge to finding and pursuing the balance I mentioned between nature and nature protection. Fish farming in open water depends on many environmental factors, causing stress on them, close and far away. In the opinion of the Committee, it is reasonable to require the sustainable development of such fish farming, to develop in a consistent manner, to fully trace sustainability and, as far as any environmental impact is concerned. They will always be someone, no matter what kind of fish fire they are on land or in sea, sealed, or opened heifers. As noted at a meeting of the Committee, there have been many opinions in developing fish farming in Iceland and scientists as well as the economists, i.e. In principle, a panel of fish farms and salmon fishing, rights, and nature - protection organizations is at a very different level of subject matter, some of them, not all of which are concerned with the development of these occupations. It is not uncommon for politics in Iceland to have almost steel steel in it, so it is very difficult and tricky for the Parliament's professional committee to really step in. Nevertheless, the Commission still insists that environmental protection is leading to the development of fish farming in the same way as social factors. That is in itself the agreement, but when it comes to certain factors, there is a huge disagreement, so to speak. The caution of building fire stations, taking into account opinions and demands that the most efficient nature protection must be guided by all decisions on business and development. This is true of the strong internal surveillance of fire stations, as well as the efficient and intensive supervision of public members. Both are key. In its review, the committee highlights some of the things that they consider most important in this regard. The review contains three chapters related to them, the first of which is the risk assessment of genetic preparation and monitoring, and therefore the counter measures. It is clear, then, that the committee does not feel as if it is a matter of evaluating the benefit of risk assessment or of criticism from scientists. In fact, in these substances scientists do not even agree. The scientific knowledge that exists at the moment. The environment and transport committee is not likely to be able to make such a strong decision unless they are reminded of just the factors that can be affected in this way, regardless of how to deal with this risk assessment as scientists. It is a key factor that the actual daily monitoring with the best available equipment should be related to fish farms with open seashells. Although based on projections, such as in this case, as in the baseline risk assessment, it is important in the long term that this risk assessment is based on research and continuous monitoring. We view now as a risk assessment for genetic mixtures, to be developed, and to be better, let's say, over time. The monitoring of releases, as well as the control of companies itself, and of public institutions, must be strengthened. If a fish is released, very clear and effective counter measures are needed. Then, in particular, the Commission points to Norway's experience. It is, as people may know, a fish farm that is now 1.3 million tons a year. We have our $12,000,14,000 tons a year. This means that they need to be searched for flounders, and the experience shows that the fish are looking for most in the coming years, although they may be seen in distant rivers. There are ways to search for and remove such alien species. Camera systems, some even certain types of lids, direct the fish into one channel, and when the fish are observed, the fish are made out of the water. We can call them divers, because they usually wear wet suits, and they look for these fish and remove them from the river. This is done with good results in countries such as Norway. Such counter measures should be developed in this country, as assessed by the Committee and at the cost. with money from the industry itself. The Commission, when it comes to monitoring vehicle tolerance, stresses the most effective monitoring of the proposed carriers of fuel and land supply, one of the cornerstones of all licences and businesses. As with the risk assessment, the Committee does not believe that it can realistically assess the extent of the burden - tolerance and burden - tolerance scale for doubt or criticism for the same reasons as mentioned earlier. It has also been difficult to obtain the specified reliable figures on the quantity of waste from the major size of open seas, as strange as it sounds. Nevertheless, the Commission encourages strict adherence to existing carrier assessments in each fish farm, reevaluating and upcoming, as expected in the bill. Mr. President. The Commission takes into account the importance of closely monitoring the collection of wastes in affected areas, with as often as possible, and always taking action when the limit of acceptable waste is reached. The import of the coven and the rest of the coven below the specified time of use is the main method of inhibiting marine environmental damage due to fish breeds. A strict monitoring and monitoring for the near period of life is also a key to effective implementation of the procedure. Therein, increased research, increased data to support the carrier tolerance assessment and counter-improvement, is actually new. The Commission encourages vigilance in a broad estimate of the environmental impact of all fish farms, and it emphasizes that this is being met by scientific measures, the impact of this operation. It will try to minimise the environmental impact, e.g. There are also other jobs, such as tourism and other food production in the area. We named only salmon lice and other parasites, and it noted that the Committee welcomes increased emphasis on internal surveillance by the operators with monthly reporting on the state and health and lice that contribute to counter-improvement measures against parasites and diseases and, in addition, new regulations that will be imposed on protection against fish diseases. The Commission also insists that protection measures against salmon lice and other parasites are environmentally compatible, not using so - called poisons, but either methods based on some environmentally friendly products or, as humans have tried with other fish that eat evictions of the salmon. In the conclusion of the narrative, the Committee rejoices in terms and motivations in the bill and in the forward bill also for the exchange of fish stocks that promote the switch from traditional fire to fish in the fire with a goat fish or a fire in closed water, for we are to go there, of course. The environmental wealth of sea farms is promoted according to the bill, and the committee expresses special pleasure in that provision. Finally, the Committee welcomes a meeting committee on fish farming that will be established. We don't do that, or at least we don't. I can personally say that I do not assume that in advance such a committee can be assumed to be both scientists and economists to ignore science. Let us wait for the experience of doing so before we fully confirm it. The bill also provides hard - hitting laws against fish farms with a view to improving their warning effects. They consider the Commission to improve and to contribute to the overall improvement in business, to the benefit of the sector, and not to the environment. At the end of the discussion, it is true that all of us will be seated on our stand. The Environment and Transport Committee signed this paper, and more than that, Leví Gunnarsson's son, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this review. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to know that the discussion of this report was extremely small outside the council. The warrants of the hunting court heard at least that. Once so I know but not the Committee. It was not spoken to any representative of her, nor was it taken over her own head. I highlight the caution that this review is based on and practical countermeasures, which, in fact, monitors, whether cameras or search, and that fish that may enter the rivers are removed so that the risk assessment, along with these measures, prevent the genetic mixture that we do not want to see. These are the methods, as I say, which have proved their success in at least one country I know of. I also remind you of the articles written by fishermen that remind you of the breeding of fish, i.e. In Iceland, salmon fish from specific rivers distributed for other years, or even no salmon, also have certain genetic contaminations that we must not forget when discussing the state of wild salmon in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u46	A respectable president. Everyone wants to do well, but when it comes to it, there are some who are unable or unable to do it for various reasons, whatever they are. It is a small part of our role at the council to ensure that surveillance and management, e.g. has such a job that can certainly cause damage, is good enough to prevent such damage from occurring in the first place. We should not repair the damage afterwards. Instead, we should try to prevent it from becoming. You can do anything right with open fire in the sea, but you can also screw it up, deliberately, or unintentionally. This has been illustrated in comments such as Scientists that the only way to ensure that all of this is right is by means of effective time surveillance, as shown by the opinion of the environment and transport committee that I take my mind entirely. There must be objections and clear responsibilities. Whether the bill and the conversion of the majority of the objects reach all that goal is not completely answered, I think, but it becomes evident in the process as it usually happens. However, there are several things that are not necessarily obvious in the bill at present, whether it is sufficiently efficient when it comes to it. As I said before, everyone wants to do well, but when it comes to it, they don't always make it, not necessarily because people intend to. There are a number of factors, as mentioned in the discussion, that the risk assessment could not be accurate, but there is something that would be evident in just the actual functioning of the time monitoring. There have been reports that the Rapporteurs are in a position far too far from the observation centres they need to monitor. This is obvious indiscriminate. I emphasize that this can be done right without causing environmental damage. It is for us to make sure that this will be the case and that when things get screwed up, there are clear counter measures and responsibilities that will intervene. We know that accidents can occur for various reasons, but we want to reduce the possibility of accidents as much as possible and that once they are discovered, because the quality monitoring is sufficient, e.g. Immediately you will notice holes in the nets that will not be open for any day and that everything will pass through. Of course, mature people do not want such things to happen. What may be important in this discussion about fish farming in recent years is that we never hear of the good examples. There are people who do these things very well and we don't hear anything about them because there are no problems. We hear about the problems, and of course we want to prevent them. Although I would like to talk about two factors that are indirectly related to this matter, the context of this work is very important. There have been events where our transport system is simply not designed to carry the weight of this industry, e.g. ... ontheWestlands. There were problems moving in the last winter or last spring. Of course, that is very unfortunate and is something to play together. Transport is a fundamental part of a country where employment can flourish. The other part is a microevolution, which I would like to discuss in a few words and is related to a synonym that I have proposed. The need for such animal farming as fish may not yet be so intense for years. It is a technique to cultivate the meat without growing the whole animal. In the coming years and decades, not so many, people assume that the method of making meat can be the source of fish or other meats that can be predominant and will replace this production in animals. I would like to encourage the council to consider only the precise development of this technology, since it will take place more quickly than we realize. In 2005 no smart times were expected in 2007. I think I'm gonna handle the dates right. In just one year, smartphones were everywhere. Today, when technological advances have become productive, they will be in general in a moment of crisis. I could even say so much that if the current sponsorship of mass production in animals were to the same extent for carnivore, we would already be at the point of not needing the mass production of animals to live under human farms and that this would be competitive for meat. This would make up for an alarming amount of nature, for the effects of mass production on natural animals are extremely high, not only the obvious about land use but also the use of drugs and immunity that result from them in energy production, water use, and the like. It's not far enough yet. Still, there are restaurants that offer only cultivated meat, not the meat of an animal that had to be slaughtered. The idea of a world in which we do not have to grow animals, since we do not have to go out to catch fish - we can, and we definitely will, but not in the same environmentally harmful way that we are now. All environmental impacts discussed by e.g. Fishing will be meaningless because there will not be a need for fire in that way. I encourage the council, and I hope it can handle this council proposal at the next assembly. Now I've made it a few conferences, but I've been asking people to turn on their pert, that these may not be such a distant future, and that they may be a bit smart to prepare for possible technological advances and see how they affect the Icelandic economy or Icelandic food production so that we are ready for the changes, but we don't know how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u47	Mr. President. I wanted to put a few words into this conversation about fish farming before the case begins between the 2nd and 3rd. It is such with fish farming, as is true of all those who have observed it, that it is really a huge sprouting rod, especially in areas that have been ill for years and even decades. There is no doubt about the great impact already on the development of southern Western, Western, western, and Tribal fun, and future prospects for success on the north side of the West. On the east side, there is a high level of development, and the areas there are confident that this legislation will be successful, this future structure, as can be expected to be practical. I'm going to allow myself to lose some of my speech by 8. which is actually legal between the old system and the new system. We're not in any legal vacuum today. There are laws on fish farming that are involved, and the development that has already taken place within the market. I have felt that as long as these 8 articles have been as controversial as they have been, it would be wise to step back, take time until the fall, whether it was until the so - called late conference or to a new assembly, because it would not be justified in throwing in this regard. Based on the two lines that the committee has looked for as a cut point in terms of survival of applications compared to the falling down of the applications and having to start over in a new system, this point has a tremendous impact. I have found much criticism outside the council Hall that the members of the committee are not fully aware of the impact that this cut point has on both areas and then on businesses because it also matters for the settlements. Thus, it can first be read into the impact of each incision point to form the western settlement, the Tribal fun, the Isafjörður area, Bolungarvík, and the eastern settlements. It's a minimum catch, and I just want to let myself tell you politeness, that this information is properly disintegrated. What has been made clear, however, highlights how much is evaluable in what is being seen as cut points. Then there will be an estimating criteria for the Organization to determine which side of the mourning falls. I'm thinking that we in this room should make decisions like this with wide eyes, knowing what the effect is on each area and on individual quarters. That's not something else. Happily, then, I am somewhat optimistic today after hearing a word I trust to point out that a person is trying to make more peace with his viewpoints in these matters between the 2nd and 3rd. I think there's a need to watch for the cutoff point and then I'd like to suggest that, according to Article 8. track No. 106/2000, be reference. It is not as estimating as the two operating points that have been most discussed in the committee. If this cutting line cannot be reconciled, you will be looking to install a sunset rules so that the companies that have been preparing and have been working on for years, two, four, and six years, if I understand that correctly, have applications for years, e.g. 24 months to complete the permissible protocols and that they fall under the old system. We must not forget, for those and for us who stress that the environment in these regions is solid and that the demand for the industry to develop in the best way in terms of nature is that the companies working in this industry are strong, strong, and have financial strength to deal with the demands. It doesn't do anybody good that the number of companies in the fire will be very large. I think I'm going to get the numbers right when I say that in Chile, where people had a lot of trouble some years ago, 140 members started on that long coast. Today there are either 60 or 80, so there has been a significant decrease. And the situation is much better, the company is more powerful, and there are requirements for those who have financial strength. I think there's something you've forgotten about the conversation. It may play together that companies are more powerful and that areas of nature and its protection are better equipped. I don't think anyone has to doubt that if the industry as such or companies who are engaged in this activity today are subject to a significant impact because of where the operating point will change their strategy for building up. If I look at those in the hall right now, I seem to be a collection of amateurs for forestry and there people know that plans for the future need to be prepared well ahead of time. The water supply is much longer in the fishery, where farms need to be built, equipment, research, and so forth. The company must have a good view, and we must be on our way toward it. I don't think people may have realized that 8th pars. There is no conflict with hard work and firmness in securing environmental protection. If there is something that supports wanting to go relatively far in the face of the communities. If someone felt that it was the opposite of the viewpoint to have the cutter again in terms of the leave zone, if anyone in this room felt that it was working against the aims of a powerful defense against the Icelandic wild salmon population, it was a misunderstanding. You see, I think it's just the other way around. The longer we draw the line on legal grounds in time, the better the delivery is for the protection of the Icelandic wild salmon population and the environmental protection issues of other products we have. I would like men to take a close look at this, that either the cuttle will be taken to have the point of proposaling an assessment plan for the Organization, according to Article 8. track No. 106/2000, or put in a sunset rules that allow companies time to complete the current applications and have required a lot of costs and work, even for years. I reiterate my hope that work on a professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to benefit and wish the members of the board the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u48	Mr. President. I do not intend to make the full use of my public talk, but I believe that it is necessary to make a presentation to support some viewpoints. It is clear that by means of the bill presented and discussed here, existing legislation on fish farming is being updated, which is long - term. Thus, the legal environment of fish farming at last has this bill, which is the main purpose of strengthening the administration and of the legislation of fish farming. Despite the fact that the salmon is finally being introduced, there are also some factors that need to be harnessed and adjusted. It is good to see that more than a part of the job committee makes some necessary changes to the bill, but there would have been other factors that would have been needed in my opinion. As we know, in the years to come, fishing is a growing industry and will grow tremendously. Iceland is not the exception of this trend, but in recent years there has been an enormous increase in the growth of European coastal waters on fertile salmon. It uses Norwegian salmon, an alien species of Icelandic nature. As in any business, we need to set clear standards for them when they are growing, as is the case with this sector that we are discussing right now. In particular, we need to make clearer and more demand for employment, which, in my opinion, is almost solely gone through nature and the environment. In this way and almost exclusively with clear requirements, local fish farming can develop the uniqueness that is absolutely necessary when it comes to offering quality products that are reflected in key environmental principles in production, taking into account all the richest demands for sustainable and natural protection. Many have expressed deep concern for the genetic mixture of farms with wild crops, and research has shown that such a gene mixture has a negative impact on the survival of wild salmon strains to cope with changes in the environment due to genetic changes. I take my heart to them. And they're also the main concerns of nature and environmental organizations. At a council meeting, we need to listen to these concerns and take them into account. More part of the Committee has agreed to improve the bill, in my opinion, with the urgent need for changes to be made. I'm glad that more than a part of the employment committee contributes to further sharpening the Marketing Authorisation Holder's duties to cope with fertile salmon from open seashells, as well as improving the surveillance and access of the Food Agency. These suggestions are of the good quality of a major part of the employment committee. It is also good to see that more than a part of the employment committees encourage the operators to use seashells when they could have been much greater and stronger. It is also good to see that the Commission pointed to the need to provide sufficient funding for the members of the seminars and that the law is to act in harmony with the rapid development of the story and to be under constant review. I also rejoice in the minority of the employment committee, that strong nature protection plans need to be put in place when it comes to fish farming. There I welcome particularly the changes in the reduction of the fish farms in conservation areas such as the Glacier, but the aim must be clear and even clearer, but there are good and very necessary changes to the employment committee, whether from the greater or less. To prevent the release of fertile farms into the natural environment, which threatens biodiversity when it comes to fish farming, we must not simply aim to raise a fertile fish in sealed or semi-endeased heifers but simply to stop fishing in seashells. Landbuilding is the thing. That's where we're supposed to go. The risk is too high and uncertainty too big for others. To that end, I believe this bill, and, in particular, a change in a part of the employment committee, to support the law and promote nature protection policy, I will support it and the changes, while laying a great deal of emphasis on where we should go and where we are going to end our goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u49	Mr. President. We will discuss animal diseases that daily call for the import of unheated meat. That's what this is all about. It's been moving around for a long time, has long history, and it's got great interests, but the point is that here people want to try to make sure that the wholesome and drugless agriculture we've been getting used to in Iceland will be protected by every route. Here we will discuss in the context of this law bill and the synonym of counter-improvement measures that will take place over the next few weeks and months, and in this context, we have been prepared to go quite far and believe that these counterweight measures are all of the good and that in itself many of the things have occurred long ago. We must look forward to the fact that there is not yet much experience on this counterbillary procedure. Some factors have not even begun in the induction process. On this basis, in the Middle East, we have spoken of the need for a postponement. Our request would be that the law be fully postponed, and the case dismissed, but it is impossible to walk any less than to postpone the execution of the law for a considerable period of time. That's what I trust to be discussed in committees between 2 and 3. V.E.G. President. Has the matter been requested to be discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u50	The President is not aware of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u51	No. I don't suppose it's enough that I want it because I'm not on the Committee, but I suspect that some member of the committee will wish for it if that wish hasn't already occurred. As I told you earlier, these 18 measures of action are good as far as they are concerned, but we want to see the experience of these counterweight measures. The interests that are underneath are simply such that it will not be so returned if we make a mistake. I'd be surprised if the members of the board were to come up here, one by one, convinced that this was framed so that it could not go crazy. I'm afraid we're not in that place. I'm just saying that some member of the committee will want the case to go to a hearing after me, and that's why I hope we have a chance either to postpone the case or to postpone the decision of the execution order so that time will work to see this operation work and then again to make sure that some way of feeling that there's a way in which we can do it has the courage to do it. That's all I'm going to say for now, but I could come back in this discussion with a few more things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u52	Dear President, a publisher of hope. There is good reason to discuss this tremendous interest issue, which is now being arranged at the end of Congress. I had imagined that it called for at least a discussion. ten hours, possibly something in the second hundred, but like the highest. The President knows when I would like to pay for any action I may have made. There is now an agreement on how Congress work will be conducted, as this matter is involved, assuming that there will be a postmortem delay and that the time will be used to assess whether any counter-improved actions may have been met with the desired results, but also, as it were. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason mentioned in a talk before me, evaluating whether there may be other options, which I am convinced is the case. This has been a big problem with the government, but it has set it up to the fact that there is nothing more in the situation than to accept it because it is responding to judgments as at least one. Private Stefánsson Már has been misinformed, i.e. that the conclusions have been incorrect in this case, since agricultural and marine resources should be outside the EEA Convention when made. We Icelanders thought we had a clear warning in these specific matters, i.e. Import of raw non-fried meat and non-preserved food. In reality, Mr. President, you cannot help but put this in line with the discussion of the third energy package in view of the high emphasis that the government has placed on it that if there are any safetys, there are any reasons to reduce concern over the approved case, we now see in the matter how dangerous it can be for the government to feel that they have been warned against the European Union, against the ESA, without a much clearer way. In this case, since it was the position of the Icelandic government that it was not just the warnings but that these issues were outside of the EEA Convention, we are now told that we must agree because the European Union and the ESA expect to do so. I believe, Mr. President, that is not the case. Now there is an opportunity and more space for us to consider our prospects in this regard. I hope the government will make good use of the time and take care of consultations with stakeholders. Of course, these stakeholders are Icelandic food producers, one of the basic fields of agriculture. It is often very strange to observe how people allow themselves to talk about Icelandic agriculture and the rules and regulations that apply to ensure wholesome production and quality of food and employment as such not only to themselves but also to be built around the country. In such a great deal, you would expect people to seek every means to defend the article. On the other hand, too much has been said that human efforts to cover Icelandic food production have been made, in some way thought to be abnormal or in opposition to consumer rights, which will be one of the most common lines from those most opposed to Icelandic agriculture. Of course, that is not the way it is, of course, the support of Icelandic food production is at the same time supported by consumers. I'm sure there's a nation at least Some civilized people, a few Western nations, feel that it would be unnecessary to protect themselves from food production. And this is particularly important in Iceland in view of the unique status our country has as well as our food production after developing here for over 1,100 years without linking with various diseases and other problems that are affecting agriculture in many countries and after maintaining the European agriculture programme from the beginning, i.e. family's ready. To expect an Icelandic family to meet all the strictest human requirements for production, while competing with a factory farm in foreign lands that doesn't meet the same demands, workers have to work at an unsurpassed basis in Iceland, Mr. President. We cannot expect this article to be one of the articles, that it competes with subsidies abroad, with agriculture which, in many cases, operates on a completely different set of rules and in a totally different setting than we consider acceptable here in Iceland. Then there are judgments and European Union decisions and the conviction that the Icelandic government has been sentenced to over 3 billion dollars. in terms of the tools they've missed because we haven't opened the unregistered import of the available food tools. Then I'd point out that if their damages at least 3 billion it simply tells us that this is what was expected to be taken from Icelandic foodmakers during the period in question. This is what the EEA Treaty, such as the ESA and the European Union choose to interpret, should have taken from Icelandic farmers in no longer longer than it actually shows. It must fall to raise questions and consider what is being introduced here and the importance of protecting this sector, not allowing billions of billions of dollars on top of the future, year after year, to be taken from the people working on food production in Iceland, to be moved to the importer or to others selling imported food. This judgment and damage are primarily a reminder that we must not yield to the interests of society as a protection against Icelandic agriculture. This puts things in perspective, shows that these are real sizes and real capitals. This is a question of how families produce food around the country, but a question, of course, about the survival of the habitats where agriculture is a foundation all over the country. Therefore, I restate upon my wish, Mr. President, that although we do not have much time to discuss this matter now, the time that will be used to strengthen our defenses against the European Union's greed, ESA, and pooled halls for the basics of the country and I hope that, of course, that, as many members of the council, they will set priorities and take their stand so that they will support the Icelandic food industry, the Icelandic consumers, the entire country's settlements and society. You can't talk about basic projects if agriculture is not for basic constructions in Iceland. Then they don't exist. I'll let it go for now, Mr. President. I had promised not to talk too long. I would have liked to discuss these matters much longer and go technical into them but now I'm going to end my case by reenacting my appeal to the United States of Congress that the time that is now available will be used to strengthen the defenses and to support the use of Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u53	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you for your last speaker, please. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for a very good talk and for the encouragement of a council to support Icelandic agriculture. This certainly does not result from the fact that there has been an unprecedented lack of European agriculture in the past of this government, which is extremely sad in view of the enormous importance of this industry in our society, of important food security in the country, and of the many families working on agriculture and producing this wonderful pure product. As we have seen, we will discuss a bill that is a government response to the EFTA Court and Iceland's Supreme Court that the Icelandic license system for importing raw and processed meats, eggs and milk is not compatible with the requirements of the EEA Convention. This is a big deal, Mr. President. If the laws that are about to take place are the natural mourning day in the history of Icelandic agriculture and can have serious consequences for our farms and thus for our clean agriculture, as well as for the public health of the citizens of the land as reported. The history of the matter reveals the European Union food legislation adopted in 2007 by the EEA Convention. Like what? paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunollson's Gunnlaugsson was never mentioned as saying that agrienvironmental affairs would be in the EEA Treaty, but this is now the case which shows how much this contract has been handled during the 25 years that it has been in the past. I believe, Mr. President, that in the end of this case, the government slept on guard duty. They should have held our positions vigorously. The community has concluded that the bill is a perfect surrender by the government and shall agree here. I stress that we should have kept better interests in place. The government should have maintained a more intensive interest protection for Icelandic agriculture in the early stages of this case. I asked the highest. Secretary of State whether he had applied political measures in the European Union and his answer was that he had called the European Union's State Department of State. I must say, Mr. President, for a small nation like Iceland the interests of this matter are much larger than one phone call enough, and I must think it is a rather compromising interest. Also, I asked the secretary if the case had been adopted by the European Commission, which will discuss issues that may arise in the implementation of the agreement. The minister did not answer the question, but he knows that the matter has not been discussed at the committee and must be considered strange. On behalf of the European Union the issue is driven by the most powerful stakeholders in the European Union, officials of the European Union's agricultural sector. The government has to and should have put all its political importance into it and, of course, the prime minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, had to meet right away with Jean-Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission, requesting that Iceland's speciality be accepted. Another is surrender. I call to note that in a report by the secretary of state and international affairs discussed earlier at this council, Ministers will discuss the interests of the EEA and he will know that it was one of his priorities at the State Department of State, which is so fine. So says on page 18. 7, with President's permission: It is important to remember that this great improvement has been achieved without Iceland's significant sacrifice. Mr. President. I'm going to protest this sentence in the secretary's report. We can see that in the case of the law, if the bill becomes a law, the local agriculture will sacrifice enormous interests, so I'm surprised that this robe has been introduced into the report. In fact, Icelandic agriculture is being minimized in this respect. I think it's right to make this happen, Mr. President, and I'll make a special decision here. It was discussed that we were not allowed to talk for a long time here, but I guess there's some agreement that hangs out on a different subject, so I just want to make comparisons between this case and the British territory at the time. There we presented important data supporting our cause, such as the report of the Overfishing Agency. The evidence was on our side, and eventually we won a victory against an empire. The same is true in this case. Our special standing is unconvinced, Icelandic livestock stocks have been isolated for centuries and have never been exposed to the infectious material of many farms endemic in Europe and beyond. The argument is on our side, Mr. President. The use of natural resources in agriculture is based on knowledge, such as the practicality of natural resources in the fishing industry. Ólafur the late son of Jóhannesson, former prime minister, said in the diplomatic language that an agreement would be excluded unless our circumstances were reasonably viewed. Those words certainly apply in this matter, Mr. President. It should have been a fair view of our particular status in Iceland, and unfortunately, the government has failed to promote our uniqueness in an important way. That should have happened, and I'm afraid that was not done. That is why we are on a journey that is deeply concerned about evolution. I want a trial at the end that I asked the highest. Agricultural minister who would be responsible if this area brought up livestock stocks that could cause a lot of damage. The highest answer. Agricultural minister was in a position to be a state fund of damage. It is true that this program of public speaking will be out of place. We hope, of course, that it will not, but I am deeply concerned about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u54	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill to correct a change in animal diseases laws and warnings against them, the food law and the protection law on food control, manure and seed products, i.e. The import of livestock products. I'm just gonna do a big show on this fine thing, but I'm gonna have to stay out of the Senate resolution next to the program, the counter-requisitions to take place. At first, I'm going to take a short story explanation. In 2002 the European Union's new food legislation went into effect. In 2005 a discussion on the possible recording of EU food laws was adopted. In 2006 the government approved an agreement on the recording of the food law. In the summer of 2007, the final agreement was reached that the food legislation would be recorded in the EEA Convention, and Iceland had an 18-month period to eliminate the license team. This is what this blessing of judgment is about. In 2008, a marine dignitary and agricultural minister proposed a prime report on the induction of food legislation, which should thus be neutralized by the loci system, which did not become legal. In 2007, men did not negotiate the import of living animals to the land because of their special status, but they took the approach we are considering today, i.e. I'm here for my cryo-freaking. Now both the EFTA Court and the U.S. Supreme Court have judged it to be illegal. In 2011, the Association complained about trade and services at the EFTA Monitoring Institute because of this permission system. In November 2017, the EFTA Court concluded that the Icelandic license team was not consistent with the commitment that Iceland had made under the EEA Convention. Most people should be aware of what happened in 2018. The Supreme Court sentenced in October that the license team was not in line with Iceland's commitment under the EEA Convention and condemned the Icelandic state to prevent the import of unheated meat. Of course, some need to respond and even if they had already been there. This is now by means of the bill we deal with, and after that, we come to discuss a Senate resolution that covers counter measures. It has been discussed in this issue that, of course, the basic work of the country's Icelandic agriculture, i.e. Icelandic food production, but we must also remember that even if we are an island, we cannot just shut down everything. We are involved in international business, and we must play by the rules set out there. That's where I mean the EEA deal. It's kind of cheap to come up here and talk about just knocking on doors and things like that. I think people have had the opportunity to do so here quite many years ago when it was agreed to ban import into e.g. live animals. I don't think anybody's ever thought about bringing raw meat to Iceland, but times change, and people don't see everything. That's what this bill is all about. It should be noted that the person listed here is one of the members of the Icelandic agriculture. I'm a farmer. I've been looking at this rather closely over the years. It is also safe to say that this case stood quite at the Assembly of the Agency, and when it was approved by the Party, it was agreed on in advance. There were certain demands on what was involved in the subsequent Senate resolution and how we would meet the challenges faced by the Icelandic agriculture once the cryo-communications were canceled. A book that we've made for the Council of the Agency says that the same quality requirements for international food from the European Economic Area and for the production of European Food, are required to ensure a comparable competitiveness, and that national health will not be damaged by the import of contaminated food, since the EEA Convention's policy is not made to an exacerbation in this import. Then there's our beach egg, the livestock stocks. We have to protect them as we can, they have to minimize the risks of this import. When we take unseen and new steps into the future, many people are afraid. The simplest way is often to say: No, no, we do nothing; we do nothing. I believe in this case the farmers'leadership has shown a measure of initiative by the message presented by farmers, i.e. that humans are relatively unafraid of import if the full precaution is taken and the import is of the competitive basis for the agriculture being present. We all know that in this country family arrangements are being practiced. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson came into our home earlier that we are not competitive when we compete for a factory. Agricultural development has long led to significant compression, but there has always been one factor that has guided and is to preserve the quality of production. Then let's look especially at the poultry and the pig grower. There has been a tremendous compression, a huge population of our standards, but there has also been an unsatisfactory success in the battle against Campylobacter and Salmonella. I allow myself to state that no other nation in the world can boast of distributing domestic products, i.e. poultry and pork, which do not contain Campylobacter or salmonella. Men have made big decisions in this matter. This has cost the article tremendously. Men have beat off the whole family training groups that have been identified as such bad ones, i.e. Chimoylobacter and Salmonella, and it's just destroyed. Because people know well abroad, there are special funds that do this damage. Then we don't have the country, and that's what we need to look for in the future, with the changed conditions that are going to be on the land with the import of livestock products. We need a set deposit fund, and we also need to look to the way we are going to protect our very sensitive livestock stocks. Those who have come to Greenland know that few people in the world are just as tough to defend their farm stock as the Greenlands. It's completely forbidden to import anything. This we know from the time we moved to the place where the seed of rams was for the breeding of sheep. And why is that? It's because of the speciality of livestock stocks, so vulnerable to all outside. We also know it very well here. History tells us that it is never too careful, but we also share in the international environment and the guidelines for which we have been created. Now I see that the president of the Senate has begun to put on the edges as a sign that I have been talking too long. There's still plenty to say as soon as we discuss the synonym proposal. I just want to remind you that what we're doing in this bill we're dealing with right now is mainly with the EFTA Court and the Iceland Supreme Court. Who are the ones that challenged us? Business and service organization. It was Icelanders. It wasn't the bad guy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u55	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of the food safety programme and the protection of livestock stocks. A professional committee delivered the Synod resolution proposal and agreed that the proposal would greatly strengthen the subject discussed above. The interpretation proposal is in 17 teams, and I'm gonna slide over them a little bit: 1st Incorporated will be additional insurance for imported turkey meat, chicken meat and eggs. 2. Requesting additional insurance from imported pork and beef. 3. The distribution of poultry will be planned unless it has been demonstrated that it has not been identified by the Campylobacter. 4. The risk management committee will be established. 5. There will be effort to reduce the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria in Iceland. 6th A more rapid introduction to the Commission will be ensured when the import of certain products has to be stopped in short notice. 7. The regulations for the import of the veterinary medicinal product (s) for the private use are implemented. 8. Official surveillance agencies will be assured that they will be authorized to place administrative guiltys on food companies that violate the ban on poultry distribution without proof that it has not been detected in the Campylobacter. 9. Increased information for travel on the import of products from the animal kingdom will be assured. 10. A fund will be established with emphasis on the growth of innovation in domestic food production. 11th It will be introduced to public trade policy on food. 12th There's a food policy at the market for Iceland. 13th Take in an effort to find a better meaning for food. 14th The development of customs protection and the intelligence of the Icelandic agrienvironment towards changes in the international business environment will be investigated. 15th It will be considered to set up a special insurance fund because of damage caused by manufacturers. 16th The agricultural agricultural records will be reviewed. 17th You will be advised to engage in extra checkups following the decommissionment system. Ministers report to the General on the progress of the programme by November 1, 2018, and introduce it to a professional committee. A professional health care committee adds two measures from the top of the operation programme. Minister. One for section 5, an action programme involved in the implementation of campaigns to reduce the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria in Iceland. In recent years, worldwide resistance to antibiotics has increased. This makes treatments of several more dangerous infections more difficult and costly and, in some cases, impossible. In Iceland, antibacterial resistance has been considerably less common than in nearby countries. We want to be there to help reduce the spread of antibiotic resistance. This Convention also discusses the importance of promoting innovation in domestic food production. It is suggested to set up a fund together the product fund of agriculture and the AVS research Fund in the fishing road. Combining these funds will promote the innovation environment of the industry, and to achieve that goal, additional funds will be placed in such funds. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the relative share of the budget to the sector will be comparable to the current level. Then the commission suggests adding two more measures than the previous 15. They are about to review the agri-environmental protocol that I think is very important and that there will be a special campaign for further monitoring for four months following disintegration of the license system. I believe that with the approval of this arrangement, we will provide a more solid foundation for the domestic and public health of the country and will ensure it as best we can. As we have seen, this programme of action is very diverse and most of the measures should be ready when the bill takes effect, but others are persistent projects like those involved in the competitiveness of domestic food production. The task will never end as we know, but the competitiveness of the Icelandic agriculture will, of course, be best assured by its best quality and better than the exported food. I believe it is very important for the Icelandic agriculture that this Conventional Reunion Directive will be launched quickly and effectively, and it is very important that Ministers submit a report on its progress, introduce it to a professional committee, and ensure enough funding to follow this operation. I'm optimistic about Icelandic farming like that. A senator who spoke here before me and is a farmer and a bus.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u56	A respectable president. I'm going to start talking about it. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, the head of the professional committee, and the employment committee for her good work on this matter. I'm not going to be long words, but in short, I see it this way that the setting here is creating in terms of Icelandic food production and the requirements we are making are truly unique worldwide. The key to all of this and to what we talked about before is that we say, "Please, come from abroad with your products as well as say, 'You have to meet the demands we set on our production.' That's the key to this. When these counterweight measures are implemented, I do not fear for the consequences of commercial food production because when it comes to quality, expensive well - being, and the services of food - making workers, there are few people who can relate to the proposals. When we consider Icelandic food production, we need to keep in mind quality and quality. That is what consumers want when we discuss food security, the public health of the country, and the protection of livestock. It's like a beautiful symphony.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u57	Mr. President. In view of the bill's data, it is obvious that much good work has been done. There are a few things I would like to mention, though. First and foremost, there would be more specific details in the bill on how to handle conflicting interests. When the F.O. and the Federal Council are on one hand, it is obvious that goals do not always go together. I give an example: The role of the Bank in managing money policy with a steady price policy does not necessarily agree with the monitoring of financial financial funding of institutions, and the monitoring of financial financial resources of companies does not necessarily agree with public management with financial institutions, which are part of consumer protection. There is no need for goals to work together, and the number of roles and objectives of the Federal Bank is now increasing. This adds to the political value of the Federal Bank and thus the appeal of politicians to influence the activities of the Federal Bank. In addition, this adds to the official prostitution in which officials of the Federal Bank have increased political power. Second, the public has often been criticized for not being whole as efficient as the private sector. In the bill on this subject, I believe we have a clear example of this. If you look at the goal of the bill, they are good, but I miss not seeing that part of the goal is to achieve economy. It can be said, then, that uniting organizations is almost ambitious without any intention of achieving economic advantages, for the nature of the matter as described should be able to achieve the economy without affecting the quality of control. If we do not take advantage of such opportunities as when a government company is united, how is there any hope that the request will ever decrease? It has been shown that in the greater part of the cases where companies are united, they do not achieve the objective to achieve a difficult job that needs a clear direction and a vision to be successful. According to the Association of Business Science, history has shown that government spending has a tendency to increase, yes, increase, not even to take place. Other comments, as per a review of the Associations of financial companies, show that the clarity of currency is lacking. According to the bill, the Bureau's receipt should include the cost of services rendered and the mention of a variety of specific services, but at the end of the list there is a factor known as financial infrastructure. I wondered, " Does anyone know what's going down there? ' It would have been necessary to define more clearly what is involved in the bill, since this is almost an open source for the united agency and thus is extremely limited to the customer. Business agencies, like other companies in the country, pay huge taxes and expenses, but in addition, they pay more than 2,300 million on surveillance. It is normal for financial companies to land themselves to pay their own checkup and to have the best surveillance option, but companies who deal with the State must be able to have some kind of ability to make arrangements in their business. If an enterprise in the country knows the rules and the Constitution of the state, the chances of it developing a normal relationship between the public and the private sector of consumers will be increased. If a clear policy was that the harmony should achieve economy, we could give ourselves the goal not to be below 10%, i.e. More than 230 million. For that money, it could do a lot of good and is this amount of money that could remember everything for many worthwhile subjects and bring back much to society or just because it seems to forget too often to use the opportunity to reduce taxes. We know that there are many worthwhile issues that we as a community would like to keep right and that money is limited. These include cohesion and change in the public, according to the current size of the system, the red cord should be in progress both in efficiency and in economic efficiency, thus enabling us to reduce the roof, to reduce taxes, and to build a flourishing job life that benefits land and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u58	Mr. President. I was going to recommend for the minority of the Economic and Business Committee in this case. Though I have little in excellent speech. paritaprevir Nanna, that's the Margrét Gunnlaugsdóttir I'd like to make up for. It's not long, Mr. President, but it says, A small part of the Economic and Business Committee considers the Management Board to consider a review of legislation on Iceland's Federal Bank and Economic Affairs to be commended for the quality and professional management of the bills being developed here. A smaller part of the work of the Economic and Business Committee on the situation is considered to have been good, and some of the more part of the bill has been proposed to improve. However, a smaller portion of the book suggests that it is wise to postpone the approved bill for a time so that there will be room for more careful attention to the various matters of opinion that still remain unsettled, especially due to indications from many sources that warn against the fact that commercial management will be at the hands of the United Nations Office and the Economic Organization. This is what Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, writes. This opinion is short because I wanted to give the main messages that the work had certainly been a model, but it has been out of the committee's discussion and in the indications of many of the committee's visitors that the case has not been completed and that there are still conflicting issues. When it comes to unioning with the established Kingdom, which should generally be considered a positive report, one would have wanted to see a greater additive effect, as noted in the Sermon on the Mount. In this case, it is inevitable to ask, in this case, how much power is put on the hands of one institution and almost law enforcement. This must be in line with the events of the past few years and, actually, the decades and the issues raised in order to form the World Bank Penitentiary. I suggest that this will be examined further, as well as some other opinions that have been discussed in the past. The Economic and Business Committee. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to assume that at this point it has been found that in the discussion on the position of the bank manager, candidates have received the message that they are applying for the job as it looks now but not the job of the bank manager in a new joint agency. It must mean that once these laws have come into effect, the post of the bank manager and the bank manager who is best qualified to fulfill the role assigned to the new agency will be announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u59	The President intends to organise the vote so that the votes will be elected by documents, and first, there will be a change in the proposal of a small part of the employment board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u60	Mr. President. We vote for a change in the laws associated with fish farms. As mentioned in the discussion, this is all very complex, but number one, two and three is the importance of developing legislation for this growing sector based on sustainable, economic, environmental, and particularly social. Here, all these interests really go together, but it is important for society to have stability in fish farms and to have them present, it has to be a protection for nature's interests. Walking into the environment affects the fishing industry as well as the community. It is my belief that here are steps in the right direction, especially with the changes made by the less part of the employment committee and, of course, I encourage Congress to accept all. I want to finally take advantage of this opportunity to sharpen it. The legislators to ensure that the institutions involved in fish farming's issues have sufficient funds to function properly, while their responsibilities are high, both in case and in monitoring. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u61	Mr. President. We hereby vote for a change in my terms of not allowing the use of the glacier in Isafjörður deep under fish farms. The glaciers are part of a peaceful country, and they have been for decades, and they were very visible to people in the western part of the world who set them up for a peaceful period of time. I believe, and it is my opinion that it is appropriate for us to agree that there is no job in this area where there is no electricity, roads, and other infrastructures and the same should apply to the fish fire. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u62	President. Regardless of my attitude toward the surrounding region, I have to say that I was a little surprised when I saw that change. We have here extolled cooperation across more parts and smaller parts in the work of all this committee, but first I heard of ideas about this when presenting my opinion. It is very necessary to make a complete decision that some special area has a protection value, even an area that is now being examined for protection on weight - resistant areas. If there was a real desire to get along with this, they should have discussed matters this way with the work of the whole case. Sadly, that was not done. Completely independent of my position toward this area, I cannot take out one area of the many that I would like to consider if special rules should apply to me. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to remind you of the equipment we have to organize the marine and coastal areas. We agreed on a year over a year ago's planning of marine and coastal areas, and there we have a way of determining which areas we use and which areas we protect. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u64	Mr. President. A smaller part of the employment committee suggests an increase in environmental budgets by 5 k. The main motivation is to go to another kind of fish farm, i.e. in a closed heifer or with a castrate. Although the greater part recommendations, i.e. to reduce the price to the sources of sealed heifers and goatfish, are very good - we welcome them just in the opinion of the committee - we believe we can go further into such fish farms and therefore contribute these adjustments. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u65	Mr. President. Here's a vote for a smaller proposal for how to handle land management applications in areas that have been evaluated for carrier tolerance. I don't know if a world of Congress generally realizes that areas that have been evaluated for transportation are actually more of a part, at least a large part, of the region. This is to be discussed in detail, since the majority have retracted in this regard. But I think the way we're going in the smaller part is good and encouraging the Senate to change our mind and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u66	President. I confess to myself that I thought I'd be back here for a discussion when we went to the second document, but then it's nice to talk about all the suggestions that follow. I wanted to tell you that as indicated by my share's proposals, there have been a retraction. It has also been done by the greater part of the adjustment proposals, and the thinking is that the committee is working together to combine these suggestions between 2 and 3. and that they will be submitted after that work here at 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u67	Mr. President. We here vote for a change in the development of more things with the so-called Advisory Committee on Fishing, which is a great idea in many respects, to be named as a minister for scraping and planning. No, it's just a little more serious than that, but at least for a discussion on the state of fish farming, which is a very good and important subject. However, we feel that in the lesser part it is important that this committee does not deal with the so - called genetic risk assessment, which includes stakeholders rather than specialists in the genetic preparation of salmon fish. As a result, we cannot support this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u68	President. I need to note that the change in the motion of the majority of the segments we vote on is actually turning toward adding a member of a requested committee, that there will be a representative of the Environment and Resource Minister. In many respects, it is an exciting innovation that might be considered in more parts of the board, to have a consultation committee that covers controversial issues, enough of them in our fine community, and to examine them and anything that we present in each category. I reiterate that it is then a Habitat Research Institute that publishes risk assessment. A minister can either reject or confirm, but nothing else, so regardless of this committee it is considered binding to the Habitat Research Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u69	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here to say something. The author of the case, Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, who said earlier that the conversation and cooperation with the committee had been very good, as mentioned earlier. We feel that these adjustments are not the only ones that have been considered specifically in the past, that they are improving, and that is why they are supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u70	Mr. President. We, in the smaller part of the labour board, feel that part of the collections are going to run to the countryside, and the rural community will be exposed to considerable costs, direct and indirect, due to the development of the sector. So we suggest that there will be a special division within the SEC that will cover the funds and that the funds will go directly to the countryside instead of going through some kind of fund where the rural communities at least Experience it in such a way that they need to take a form of offer to the Kingdom. So I encourage Congress to accept this change proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u71	President. These articles discuss the natural nature of a part of the income going to a rural society. That is exactly what this article expects in the bill. Then people can have a view of how they can best be arranged. However, I would like to say, Mr. President, that the decision now or in fact, in terms of some of these incomes is going to run into a rural society - I'm going to say that it's almost impossible as it is today. A much greater view of how to do this is required on the market income law, etc. In spite of the legal environment, some of the income is being introduced to the countryside. I urge all of us to be together in this way, that all the ways in which we make progress. Then, as goes on to show, we are reviewing the whole class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u72	President. Our suggestion is that there is a new system that already exists, at a minimum, when the resource costs of the use of our resources are being taken up there and especially if less money is being taken up in the bill. If some whale dragon becomes or something unpredictable, as it stands, it will return to a greater extent than expected in this bill for the population and then to half of it directly to the hosted community. It is only natural for us to think that this is the way it is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u73	Mr. President. My business up here is to recall the sixth cycle of transitions to the greater part of the employment committee. This adjustment in terms of the implementation of the bill, and here I offer a modification proposal after the case is taken out between the 2nd and 3rd. the second valid period of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u74	Mr. President. We here vote on the so-called fresh meat or the import of the livestock. As we have seen in the discussion, it is very controversial. What's so interesting about this case is that it goes, amazing but true, to a large extent, the interests of those who are concerned about infectious diseases and consumers are the benefit of consumers, as it happens. Very clear in the opinion of the consumers organization that the product offered here is wholesome and assured. On the other hand, I was on the case in advance because I think it is very important that this does not include some customs protection or such because it is also the interests of consumers to have access to a wide variety of cheap products.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u75	Mr. President. There's two big faults on this bill. First of all, it's a threat to reputation when the S.O.B. plays a police role in the SEC of Business Affairs. Second, this is the risk of political managers and three vice bank managers. The frame of trust that we put on the operation must be clear. The financial watch needs to be overall and strong. The law must not offer the political influence, the protection of interest groups, and financial institutions, as the administrative body suggests. We in the United States are opposed to the situation, but we do not violate the change in the capacity of the greater part. However, the changes made in the memory of the part are called back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u76	Mr. President. We here vote for the unity of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC, which is a normal step in the development that has taken place over the last ten years. We are to rejoice that we have the tendency to take those steps. The bank must promote steady prices, financial stability, and a stable and secure financial market. Structural structure reflects these three main objectives as it is built under transparency and power distribution within the bank and including the bank. changes in the majority of the elements are proposed to increase power distribution and increase transparency further than expected in the bill. Here, too, are the modifications made to the memory of the object that I describe as my pleasure, and we will probably discuss them with 3. u., especially a suggestion that a periodic assessment of the activities of the Federal Bank is performed every five years. [[The president calls.]] I think it will be extremely important, as important as it is for us senators to monitor the work and policy of the Federal Bank in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u77	Mr. President. This case is well prepared and based on the advice of national and foreign experts in which two institutions of money policy, financial status, and financial surveillance are being joined. The requirements of the bank manager and the backup bank manager are the same as those for now, i.e. of qualified committees and university education in that area. These are the same principles that apply to the Federal Bank that were approved at the General Assembly of 2009 on the bill passed by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, if I recall correctly. I find it quite different to listen to what happened. Councilmen of the United States come back and forth into this chair, promoting the barbaric language that is being promoted by political orders. I'll dismiss it. It's a barber-free compromise and whatnot. Certainly not proper for members of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u78	V.E.G. President. As soon as I acknowledge the support of this bill and the arrangement proposed here, I'd like to agree with it as the highest level. Prior to this, the prime minister stated: A series of members of the United Nations, both in the conference hall and in the press, that the arrangements expected to be set out for the order of the bank managers and vice bankers, should be in good stead for some kind of political exchange or political orders, should have no support in reality. It's absurd and it's like the highest. The prime minister put it this way to say something that has not been spoken well and that it is not a good idea to repeat it time and again without making any arguments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u79	Mr. President. This issue is a matter of great agreement, and at this point it will not be at peace. When such important organizations are being united, there is always a danger that they are done in an imperfect way. We've seen it happen before, and at this point I and others in the Piranha have not been able to accept this matter, just because the danger is so great, such as a verbal threat and the risk of certain conflict of interest within this new institution that has been described by various countries within the state, so we will not support it. Still, some good adjustments came from the lesser part, and they will do something better. Then I suppose that a discussion about the future and the UN is not over. That always comes back for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u80	Mr. President. I hear the Union's hearing is a delicate part of the board. I refer to the criticism expressed by the highest authority. Prime Minister and others before. Generals for the Fathers. I'm worried that with this bill it's getting weaker... the important institution that Iceland has in store for us. In the memory of the section, we have provided a modification proposal to improve the situation and put it in a security device. It is not merely the United States that worries that once the bat becomes so powerful and with that extent subject, there is a risk of political interference. The warnings have been sounded by both international and international experts, and we should listen to them and improve matters so that we do not face these challenges. That's what we in the United States want to be considered for 3rd. this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u81	President. I sometimes think about what we allow ourselves to say in politics today, whether in here or not. That's what I'm going to do. The prime minister who's been doing is putting in the bill to prepare the soil to be divided into political favors that are money managers - I've thought of and thought about it, rarely I think more about what we say in this chamber, when I listen to this presentation, whether we've just forgotten in the political event, whether we always think about what we're saying, whether we're talking about what we're saying more important than what we're doing or what we're really doing or what we're really doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u82	Mr. President. I strongly object that the Continental View is indistinguishable, or is based on coverts or irrational concerns. That's the way it is once in life, huh? A senator, that one learns from history, and enough of us have experienced such halves that we must try to put in the primes that prevent it from being possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u83	Mr. President. I'm sorry that the discussion will develop in the way it has done here when we vote. It's like that, and it knows why. Councilmen, that it will be standing, and it has been arranged professionally to consult the bank manager and the vice bank manager, and it will be done according to the bill set here. To make the shoes so that some other viewpoint is behind us is simply an attempt to undermine the credibility that all of us here must unite in that state against the Bank of Iceland. It is absolutely irresponsible to speak in the way that this is done, to suggest that there is a channel for political recruitment when everyone in this room knows that it is wrong. This is wrong, and the prospective bank manager is being minimized, taking on a new job in August. They're beinglittled those who accept the P.A. Banker's position, and it's the worst of all that it's an attempt to undermine the credibility of Iceland's Secret Bank that I thought we'd all agree that we were going to protect. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u84	A respectable president. Here it was called upon to hear that a vote would be repeated and respected by the president of the Parliament for not paying attention. I just wanted it to come out here that I heard from my seat called from this part of the hall calling for a vote. I was watching, okay? A senator who called for the vote, huh? A senator who called after the repetition was watching and doing so on time. Clearly, it did not reach a respectable president who can do well. I helped out what. A senator by calling for this repetition. I just wanted to make this known because to be honest, it's a little tired of me hearing a respectable President talk to a body of Congress like there's some naughty child being involved, as if they're not paying attention. That wasn't the case this time. I just wanted it to come out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-18-124.u85	Mr President is very grateful for this information. The conclusion is that it's been a president who wasn't paying close attention, and then the president's just taking care of it.
