ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u1	Borist has a letter from the 6th. Southk, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, that she can't do any next week's Senate work. So today, on Monday, September 23, we are taking the seat of the General Assembly as an assistant to her Isthmust of the United States Association in the District, Nations Sigurðsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u2	At a meeting of the International Parliamentary Association on Wednesday, September 18, 2019, Sigríður was on. Andersen was elected new president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u3	Today is the Western day, i.e. The day of the West North, the neighboring states of Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. Is this celebrated in various ways, including a language room in the World as the Norwegian house, the Viking Institute, the Norwegian Society, and the Western Council all agree? The date of the West Vietnam has been followed by the decision made there by the councils and was chosen to carry down on the autumn economist of each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u4	To answer, Ministers of Health, Education and Culture, Environment and Resource Ministers, Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Transport and District Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u5	Mr. President. It's unfortunate to get to the top. Prime Minister should not be here today, not at the highest level. Ministers of finance and justice. So I'll talk to the highest. A secretary of transportation who is one of the points of the government. Many were shocked when a state lawyer's request in the expedient of the Guðjón of Skarphéðinsson was heard to be heard, one of those who were imprisoned for the affairs of Gudmund and Geirfjörður. As the people around the world know, he, along with others who had been convicted, was justified by the U.S. Supreme Court of Crimes for which they had suffered greatly, both in extreme isolation in custody and in punishment of years of sentence. Most people also remember that the highest. Then the prime minister apologized for the injustice on behalf of the government, and the prime minister went on to appoint a covenant committee, though having hands on the matter of money that no agreement was made. Thus, Guðjón's will was that of the State to pay for damages. The same state that had demanded that they be declared acquitted of the case, had accepted reformal rights, and had asked for Guðjón not only to be expedient but also to be paid by the Guðjón. A member of the Commission is a member of the Commission and is directly under the Board of Directors. Even if a state lawyer cares for such matters, the minister will give a hearing in judicial matters. I know the highest. Which ministers, or stewards, were called chief of this matter? Was the minister aware of the defense of the state's attorney before the resolution and its subject was discussed in the government? Is a minister satisfied with such a defense, or does he suggest it at a government meeting for ways to resolve the matter in another way? Or does he feel acceptable that those who exercise official authority will resort to any means of justification rather than to be treated with respect, kindness, and reasonableness toward the citizens of the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u6	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that this matter does not belong to the secretary of transportation and rural administration. It is the sincere will of the government to settle this matter, and all government careers have been in the process of establishing a reconciliation committee, acknowledging the obvious, i.e. how much injustice was committed to people over 30 to 40 years ago. Sadly, then, at the General Assembly, the matter was adopted in a most unfortunate way. I hope we're not going back there, okay? Senator. The point is in the process that we are in our order. A federal attorney will handle the case. I can answer without all the questions that arise. A senator mentioned, whether the case was handled specifically in the government or we reviewed how a state lawyer works, that is not the norm in the case. It is simply a work done there. I can also say in this chair that if there were any other ways in which I could resolve this matter, I would like to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u7	Mr. President. I can't quite see that I'm right by the highest level. Ministers that it is the sincere will of the government to make peace with the case because a state attorney's claim must reflect the will of the government, at least ... ofhersponsorts. This is made clear by the U.S. legislator, who is clearly identified by a state attorney. How does anyone think of recruiting an attorney who does not subject him to demands, contracts, or other procedures? I ask again, do the Minister know who are the representatives of this case on behalf of the government? I'll ask him again, will he discuss this at his next government meeting and make use of the idea that this will be retracted and brought back a legal agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u8	A respectable president. I don't know who they're headed for this course because this isn't under me in my department, as I came in. I'm sure I can find out, so I can get to it. A senator if there's any tools on it what it's like. I reiterate that it is a sincere wish and will of the entire government to solve this case with as good as possible because it has made the way of having a reconciliation committee that, unfortunately, did not meet the expected results. It always hurts when there's a court case going on. Then there is the utmost demands. It's used to in lawsuits. This is likely done by a plaintiff and a state attorney who has the interests of defending the State, and he is likely to do so in return. I can say with what. A senator, there are many things I would not have written in these things I have read. [[The president calls.]] I also, Mr. President, wish we would not discuss such a personal tragedy at a council as a political matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u9	A respectable president. It seems that no one has missed the implementation of this massive transport campaign in the capital area of the city line. However, it has been less important for us to know what the real city line is - and then there are those huge roads that are preached in the public and only everyone in the capital area, especially in the city population in Reykjavík. The nature of the case, as a proponent and spokesman for those who lean on their feet in this community, I am deeply worried about this. We've been given FIB calculations, and it's estimated that the average family living in an suburbs, e.g. The tomb or the Grafarvogur, or Grafarvogur, needs to be improved around 400,000. Every year if she goes to work or other places in town. The point is, I'm really worried about this, and I'd like to know if it's the highest. To some extent, a minister has tried to arrange for the difference between the citizens, some to pay less and others more; as is often said, those who are not paying for the use but who may be able to do so. Second, I would like to talk about the money that car owners and users pay in the state funds in the form of all kinds of taxes and pay that are probably about 80 billion dollars. each year if you can calculate from the Icelandic car owner's company, which can be found on the website. Why is it not the market again for transport and infrastructure, instead of seeking additional funds in the national pockets and taxing them even more so? [[The president calls.]] And we are probably one of the world's most taxable people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u10	A respectable president. I think the last statement is what. Of course, even if we all feel that we are paying to the government, a senator is wrong. It has been worked under the policy here for a very long time to eliminate the so - called market income, and I am convinced that this is the case. A senator, if she thought about what could happen if all her income were available, would find that she would agree that it would be unwise, if e.g. Those who should be raised should pay all that cost, and not others, and we did not distribute our taxes in such ways as meeting those who need it, and that is why income would be harvested. There were some things. A senator went over here, which, of course, is taken from the air, some news transfer. There's a plan to sign and introduce this agreement on Thursday. I have taken the initiative now on two occasions to make special consultations with members of the Parliament before it arrived, to attend a meeting with members of the capital area on Wednesday, and to hope to see as many people as possible because of other jobs. It's been very much. Six societies are being negotiated. Big story in this case, huh? A senator is that there are insoluble knots in traffic in the capital area. They have been for a long time, and one of the reasons we haven't solved them is that we haven't been able to sit down and put all the solutions on the table. I'm not an expert on a city line that was the only question that ever happened. A senator came with us. But by bringing all the smells together, that we'll all sit together and figure out the common solution, we think we're about to solve this traffic problem, and hopefully it'll work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I don't know exactly how he's been able to connect dental expenses to roadtoll. But all right, I'm sure anything's possible. However, in the market income it was this way before, until we set up a new government law that made money in our streets so that the payment of the car owners really went into it. When we're talking about a high 80 billion bucks. Perhaps we wouldn't have to be putting on this roadside, and I'll ask again: Is that wrong? Since it's all taken out of thin air for me and the highest. Ministers tell me that I'm just catching something off the street, something that comes out of the media, I ask: "What's at the top? Minister exactly us? Am I just going to set aside taxes? I'm just full of shit?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u12	A respectable president. I'm not going to go that far, but I have to correct the senator, make money earlier on the taxes and on cars or on cars primarily the fuel charges and diesel bills, and they've always run through road construction, except perhaps during 2011. However, the income of cars is significantly higher. It's a valuable tax, and I've never heard that the income was made as good as anything, but it went on running the common government system. There has also been transport costs, and that income has never been marketed. There's a lot of money coming up there. But I'd like less, too. A senator says that the accidents in traffic - just the deadly accidents and the most serious accidents - cost us 40 to 60 billion a year. In case of a moment. A senator means what it says, that the income should depend on all the costs, does not pay the expenses we have today to build up the road system and depend on these costs. Have I not mentioned customs, law enforcement, or any other factors related to this matter? [[The president calls.]] We can take the discussion, and I look forward to taking it on a complex basis when we've signed and introduced and we can talk about all the things they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u13	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. A secretary of transportation and would like to begin by saying that there will hardly be much discussion at midday on Wednesday because of a contract to be signed on Thursday, especially when it appears to have occurred during the past few weeks. It is very special in the opinion of what is stated here that this agreement is to be signed, likely on the basis of the policy objective of the transport programme, where the state funds are bound in a way that is to be done without a collective discussion at the council. This is a substantial amount of what you look like from the screenshots you've been given to see, because you haven't had a break. Environmental and transport committees are being given a special presentation on this. This is to be presented to members of the Parliament on Wednesday. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will see if his signature, as it has now been presented, was committed to over 50 billion dollars. with regard to this project, or will there be some kind of notice in the agreement for the General's special consent? Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on how to handle this in the contract if the cost of construction exceeds the current estimate. Is that the cost of your rural society or your government fund? Sadly, it is easy today, even in a tragic way, to list countless assignments that have greatly improved in the future of government projects. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How did it come that only a single word on the Dizziness Way was mentioned in updated contracts sent to a rural society in the capital area during the week? Then I'm just referring to the news on this matter. I find it remarkable if it's made up a package well for another hundred billion without a single word from the Sunway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u14	A respectable president. It will certainly be a joy to discuss this agreement that the State is making with six societies on the basis of the agreed transport programme and the reports and work done there, all introduced to the council, and all available to all. Everyone knows which direction to work and for what purpose. It will simply be a great pleasure to be able to take this objective discussion on the whole agreement and, of course, on the other hand. A senator, is never signed any other than that it is in advance of the approval of the Generals, e.g. how to get things through there. The bill and the law and the financial authority and the like have to be submitted. It's in nature, and in the same way it's against the societies, so I don't quite understand these questions. This is simply an agreement with the rural communities for a solution to a significant traffic problem here in the capital area that we all know and want, I think, solve. Meeting this has not happened in any way. It was simply working gradually, adding in, working publicity, achieving a common understanding of the words at a time, and then reaching conclusions during the last week on how to put it down, sign and introduce it on Thursday. I liked to introduce it to the delegates in the past, so they didn't have to watch a press conference. In case of a moment. A senator does not feel that this is a sign that he would like to have the council, which certainly has a lot to say when things come in here, on the one hand in a transport program, and on the other hand, what is needed to make the agreement a reality, he has another understanding of how important it is to have a conversation with as many people as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer may not have been answered, but it is fine that these material were presented. Now, it sounds like it's more of a declaration of will than a deal. It's so nice and a pair of people talking about what I would have thought to be normal hlantation in these materials. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of two more questions, even though he did not have the answers to the previous: If a minister knows that at earlier points a minister of the Iceland government committed a trust fund to the level indicated there is at least as much money at least as he does. 50 billion, without any special payment at the Council? Here I am stressing that it is more of a will declaration than a sort of contract with the previous answer. The other question is: Will a so - called major labour agreement be removed or laid out in 2012, where rural areas made a contract with a state fund that 1 billion go to public transport annually against the lack of major projects, or will that contract continue? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u16	A respectable president. No, it's not a will declaration. This is an agreement made by the State with six societies, and it is quite clear that it is with reasonable warnings about the survival of the Generals. Regarding the presentation of this project and whether any minister has committed the State as much to anything, we can only refer to the budget, they are introduced to the smaller parts as well as others in the council, and then they will be included in the council for discussion. This is a very big project, one of the degrees we have rarely seen, since the project has gone mad to solve this problem. I'm simply very pleased with how successful I have been. Because of what? A senator involved the Sunway in the case is not part of this agreement, i.e. the tasks within the capital area. In due course, a senator can introduce himself. However, part of this agreement is a basis for us to take the Sunway. There has never been anything but the common understanding of this group, and that is why I share it. In support of the State, it was adopted in the last year's transport program that support for 1 billion would continue to 2033, and we intend to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u17	A respectable president. Last year, a year and a half ago, in Iceland, where gambling was covered. The legal version of gambling. Little that seems to have happened, however, since then in such a far - reaching matter, however, there seems to be a lack of supervision. There is a close connection between those who run machines and those who deal with the consequences of gambling. They're even the same people. Repeat messages have been reenacted, but nothing has happened. In addition, Seljan writes a news report that treatment available for compulsive gamblers is criticized but only a fraction of the profits made by the U.S. slot machines are used to serve compulsive gamblers at Vogi's treatment station. Gamblers have severely criticized them, and they say that the U.S. gamblers for compulsive gamblers at the same time that the organization takes tens of millions of dollars a year to earn money from the gambling machines. FEW is along with the Red Cross and Landsbourg Owner of Iceland. In addition, I'm told that part of the U.S. National Convention on the United States is that AU is having a counter-requisition, with the very functioning of a slot machines box that's interesting. This problem is very extensive. There's no better legislation. This has been repeated. There's no prophylaxis, and there's no treatment, and that's why I'm here. I'd like to talk to the highest. A health minister on these matters where compulsive gambling is severely dependent on drug addicts and caregivers, and despite promises of reactions in recent years, has done little. It is also good to discuss these matters now, for example. damage to substance abuse, since gambling calls for exactly the same treatment. Thus, it can be very effective to introduce widespread damage to both drug and addictive gambling.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It is true that this is a work that appears on the Homepage, i.e. treatment of pathological gambling. It is also true in a matter of reason. A senator's involvement in SOUTH is just a means of enjoying money from slot machines. It's also important to say what's here, because of that. A senator speaks of the agreement between the state, i.e. Iceland's health insurance, and the U.S.A., is now only in force with 150 million contracts from the current year, but it is not defined by a contract in terms of the heavy project that Vos use to run, but only in part, as shown in the case of the problem. Senator. There is currently no discussion of this in the current contract, i.e. to what extent this treatment should be administered. It is also true. A senator points out that this is where we talk about all the scale, from prevention and through treatment. What has been particularly difficult with this group is how difficult it is to call it out. It seems there is a tremendous shame to be in using all your resources and more in gambling machines and gambling, causing oneself and those who live in the world beyond compare. It has been especially difficult and challenging just to bring in basic information about the need for this service. Basically, there's the knife in the cow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u19	A respectable president. The question is, Which one should take the initiative or which should take the initiative in starting the solution? I believe it has definitely been put on the shoulders of the government in the past and in the treatment process. Without it, of course, there is a certain disgrace to this legal class. There is a lack of knowledge, and we need it. The very purpose of bringing this issue up here is to draw more attention to it. This addiction is not much different from any other addiction, e.g. drug addiction or addiction to video games, although it does not necessarily involve gambling, etc. It's all the same hurt. It's the same disease, really, when we talk about it. That's why I mention this in connection with another major case we're dealing with on drugs, where we're taking the first steps to be harmed. It's very obvious, I think, that we should grab this opportunity and get it together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u20	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator may not find it beneficial to take gambling somehow from the overall picture and to talk of it as an occasional addiction that needs some other treatment and a different approach than addiction in general. Hence, it is also important that we be, whether there are psychiatrists working at the medical centre or mental - health professionals who work in the second - degree service throughout the country, and others who provide a wide range of mental - health services at all levels, aware of the precise contribution. I agree with it. A senator rightly points out, shame is a big part of the problem when public members are not in the conversation either. Of course, we are to enter into that conversation, especially because it is an addiction that can even be released online directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u21	President. Now it is clear that international affairs are becoming more and more important. We experience the tangible fact that the interest of three superpowers around us grows greatly in Iceland's geographic area in view of what may be at stake there. Sadly, they do not always stick to our own interests, for the emphasis on the three countries, for example. The environmental issues and such factors have been totally less than the resource uses or means of shipping that could open up there. The latest news was that at a lunch meeting of the Republican Party members, there was an especially possible holiday deal with Iceland on the part of the United States. It is a great source of joy, but it is a matter of design in the policy of the government of that country today regarding a foreign exchange that has been more committed to isolationism. So I want to have a conversation with the highest. Secretary of state on our own policy in this. Now we must intend to pursue a Arctic policy based on Iceland's interests, not on our status that we are some kind of change or that we seek the highest bidder in foreign trade and use them north-ways as some kind of outcast in that regard. I remind you that the government has not yet responded to China's vague offer for the participation of Iceland in Belti and the bridge of the project, which has been very strongly warned of the very indiscriminate experience with China in many parts of the world. That's why I'd like to hear from the top. Minister what our course is. Has special work been put into its shape in this regard, and how does our relationship with these three superpowers differ from that of many countries, of course, that may most share the interests of the North and the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u22	A respectable president. I'm glad that you did. A senator will adopt this important subject. I have to admit, though, that I came in anyway. A bit surprised by the fact that what was presented there is not the answer to everything. Then I'm not only talking about the discrepancy that Belti and Bridge, her name is Belti and Course, but also that the United States put more emphasis on two-sided contracts. We've been worried about this, and we're not hiding that we're worried that there's not as much emphasis on international business activity as the World Trade Organization does. Our attitude is well - known. I also thought that our heading for the north was well - known. Not only have we discussed it at the council, including... in response to our headship, we have certainly discussed it repeatedly on the foreign matter committee. She stands for hers, and I'm very pleased with her. I am also very pleased with the parapolitic stand that exists in her. Of course, Iceland has always been located where it is. We may be technical and have always been important, especially now that these changes are in the north. Although this is called a superpower, there are many others who view these areas. We keep our lines as far as our foreign policy is concerned and we can't change that. One of the things we have stressed is to expand our vacation home. Ever since I took office, I've been speaking for free trade agreements with the United States. It's a pleasure to have Mike Pompeo and I decide to go to the economy when he came here in February, and we've taken steps in this regard. It is also good if there is support. A man felt it, I met not only the Republican senators last week, but also the Domekrata, that men look more at us and understand our course, but we are far from reaching our goal. [[The president calls.]] We will continue to strengthen our free - store network and, of course, when it comes to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, answer and correct Belti. [[Up front.]] You should be right. In this matter of fact, it is of utmost importance that we maintain our best interests, and of course it is also important that we have trusted allies who share with us both the interests and the more important issues that are often not discussed, which are just the climate, the vast environmental impacts that are being caused by this development. Of course, it is happy to listen, such as. to the highest. Prime Minister who visits the vice president of the United States will discuss these matters in particular. I only noticed in the news that there were very different priorities. Secretary of state and supreme. Of course, the prime minister of that subject is very important to our best interests in this regard, as this poses a greater threat to the climate and the environment. Of course, you fear the indifference of the countries involved in this matter. The trends in the North are not just an opportunity in the sense of a new navigational route, but a vast environmental threat to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u24	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator is leaving now. I'll wake up, for example. Focus on what is our prime focus when it comes to our prehumanity in the Arctic. It is sustainable, not only in the environment, but in economic and social matters as well. We give special attention to oceans, climates, and green solutions to energy and, third, to the people of the north, and to the support of society. I didn't know that there was any gap between anyone, and I hope not, when it comes to this, definitely not in the government, and hopefully not in the council. We've been very clear about this, and I don't know how many times I've studied this in speech and literature, interviews with local and foreign media, and will definitely continue to do so. But the key point is that with the territory, we're talking about the northerns, we'd like to continue to see it without tension and that what's going on there will be built on international law. We need each one of us to do so. [[The president calls.]] I'm not painting a dark picture, I'm just saying that there's something that we always need to be aware of in our jobs. We have been and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u25	President. I'd like to have a word here at the highest. Minister for the position that came up this spring, attracting Iceland's Journalist Society to the press committee and its role. This was quite a direct criticism that led to the fact that the Journalist Society drew his representatives out of the media committee and in a gross way turned to criticism of the decision made by the Committee. The Journal Society believed that they were reaching into a place where you even need to worry about a public exchange of dictionary freedoms and freedom of expression, whether all the media material is under the authority of the Committee, whether it has been a government committee to give the press a label that is in order but is not. I'd like to ask the highest. In view of this serious criticism, a minister may consider it a reason to revise media laws, especially to guide the role of the media committee. Without me going to get too specific in my questions, it turns to 26 branches. The current media code, which requires that the media maintain their work in the honor of democratic principles and defend freedom of expression. It was very clear in the majority of the world's and educational committees at the time that this was being referred to a democratic principle as a media declaration of policy, not to the fact that freedom of expression is limited. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she believes that using this article, the role of the media committee may overlap with the National Institute of the Journalism of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's question and the effort he is making in dealing with the media and how we can improve the work environment. As clearly stated in the Government Treaty, the government is interested in supporting the environment of the environment of the individual media to promote it. We are well aware that everything connected with the media today has changed completely, including the media. Just because of the information, technology and communication revolution we are in, it's clear that we need to do better about it, for the bill is en route into the council. For the question of the why. I'm thinking of revising the media law, including... due to these indications. It's a shocking thing to know that Iceland's press conference and media committee have stood in this dispute, and it can be said that there's been a bit of a fuss about this. We need to have the same understanding and approach of 26. I say yes, I intend to revise the law, including the law. Also, because of the rapid changes occurring. We have to get on our toes, and thank you. A senator for providing the inquiry and sharpening the minister for fine works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u27	President. Thank you very much. A minister for clear and clear answers, and he rejoices greatly in his review of these matters. One of our main roles as law is the protection of freedom of expression. One of the problems we face, especially in modern times, is that we need to respect the rules and laws about freedom of expression, as well as something we do not appreciate being told, so it is very good to hear how clearly it is. There's a minister in his case. Then ask yourself a question about a planned change, whether a minister counts in the current law something, either of the current arrangement of 26 gr. or something else, in some way, can have a negative effect on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u28	A respectable president. As we know, the media committee is independent and representatives appointed to the committee. We always need to make sure that all the requests around the press committee are such that we need not worry that some aspect of her independence is threatened. I believe, however, that it is time to revise the law, and I also believe that among parties such as the National Journalist Society of Iceland, the work of a media committee can be settled. In time, the problem is as easily as possible. A senator mentions matters of 26 pars. I believe the council and then the Ministry should take it to heart, improve, and explain that this sort of conflict does not occur.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u29	Mr. President. I'm recommending a case that I believe can be of great importance to a lot of people in this country. This is a case of depression among older citizens in this country. In Iceland it is estimated that some 20,000 people suffer from depression. This is an enormous number of people, and the depression of older citizens is a special problem. The problem is in that one part of it is hidden and often unidentified. It is estimated that up to 12% of senior citizens display symptoms of depression. This ratio is twice as high as in other age groups. According to the World Health Organization reports, depression is one of mankind's most difficult diseases and can be life - threatening. Depression, loneliness, and discouragement are not only social ills but can also be dangerous to people's health. Many studies show that there is a direct link between depression and other diseases, such as heart disease. This disease is also very costly, including due to lack of job ability, but especially because of a higher quality of life. However, Mr. President, depression is often curative, and it can always be managed by, at least In the vast majority of cases. Mr. President. Here, the use of antidepressants, especially in the elderly, is considerably higher than in any other country in the North. According to local studies, 30% of the elderly who seek medical attention have major depressive symptoms and are even higher in hospital or nursing homes. Over the next 25 years, the proportion of Icelanders aged 67 years and older has increased by 50 percent, twice in the next 25 years. Thus, over the next 25 years, the number of older citizens will double. Although a discussion of older citizens' issues is far greater in many ways, their needs are not adequately met. The subjects of older citizens rarely receive the sound they deserve, and some areas that divide the elderly are very discreet. Various experts, such as regional hospital and mental - health directors, have long pointed to the need for improvement in mental - health services in the elderly and the common depression among them. It is evident that older citizens' depression and their feelings of distress involve not only that group very deep but also all their relatives and families. The symptoms of depression in the elderly can be many, such as changes in behavior and attitude, as well as impaired mental and physical abilities. People of all ages may develop these symptoms of depression, but the way they occur in the elderly may differ. The loss of a mate after a long marriage, loneliness, effortlessness, immobilization, loss of independence, financial worries, social isolation, and even life - style can be more important causes than those of other populations. It has been pointed out to include: for these reasons, depression in the elderly may differ from depression in other age groups. In particular, I would like to call attention to the fact that a section of older citizens is in poor standing and may thus have fewer opportunities for help. It has also been shown that older ones are even more reluctant to ask for help when it comes to emotional distress than in other age groups. Similarly, it may be easy to overlook the symptoms of depression in the elderly. Many symptoms of depression may be considered a natural cognition of aging, and there may be overlaps between physical neglect and the side effects of chemotherapy. Severe depression has been reported to be a state of dementia or loss of memory and efficacy. As a result, even elderly ones may be less appropriately treated for their depression. Also, sleep in nursing homes can have a spiritual effect on those who suddenly face new and other circumstances in close association with new and strangers. Mr. President. A fine job has been done in this country in connection with depression, such as by a surgeon's office, mental - health professionals, and other people. However, older citizens' mental problems are not studied here in Iceland, including According to the 2016 University report in Reykjavík, where it was said, by permission of the president: ▪ Depression symptoms are quite common among the elderly, and it may be a low level of intelligence. Even dogged. This matter of Congress including to solve the problem. Therefore, older citizens' depression has not been adequately investigated in this country, and they want to improve the proposal, both research and harmonizing measures. In addition, we need to assess the scope of the problem and the possible options, prevention, and education. The diagnosis of elderly depression increases the knowledge of depression among these people, hoping to reduce the incidence, to improve the effectiveness of treatment and to reduce the number of suicides. No healthcare institution in this country is organized into the depression of older citizens, although the Landakot Walking Department is designed with the needs of the elderly. However, if you versus Norway, there should be at least two such institutions in your country. Mr. President. Depression is one of the greatest risk factors for suicide. Therefore, the risk of suicide is important in the diagnosis of depression. Therefore, it is important to examine the incidence of suicide and suicide attempts by older citizens, but this should, of course, be approached with great caution and sensitivity. The suicide of older citizens has long been a shy case in this country, as is true in many other lands. Some feel that the suicide rate among the elderly is higher than the official figure. The number of suicides of older citizens increased in 2013, and 2014, according to the surgeon's office, the morning edition of 2016. It shows that in 2013 15 people 60 years of age and older took their lives and 13 in 2014. Four older than 80 years of age were executed in 2014 and three years earlier, and in this age group there have never been more casualties than in 2014, based on figures since 1996. It's interesting to look at numbers from abroad. In many countries, e.g. In the United States, the suicide rate is highest among men over 85 years of age. Perhaps there is no particular reason to believe that our statistics are very different from other countries. It shows that foreign research shows approximately 75% of older people who committed suicide had visited a family doctor shortly before their death. In an interview with the Morning Press of March 2016, Haukur Ingibergsson, chairman of the older citizen's National Association, said that the cause of the suicides needed to be examined. He said, with President's permission: ▪ Of course, we watch how older citizens live in the country and how they live. This is one of the issues that we will encourage further investigation so that people can determine the reasons behind this trend. At that time, the national Union directed a surgeon to examine the increase further and to investigate the causes involved. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the scope of this problem in order to respond to it and to resist it. The key element is to identify the problem so that it can be handled. Possible solutions of elderly depression need to be specific and tailored to the age group. It is suggested in the Senate that the committee will be asked to consider the possibility of dealing with the depression of older citizens, such as any options already exist and what needs to be improved. The prevention of depression is also very important. Precautionary measures may be taken when it comes to elderly patients. Depression, anxiety, and loneliness should not be a normal upper fish. In view of the high use of antipsychotics in this country, it is necessary to deal with depression by any means available. The tendency has been to solve this problem among older citizens with medication instead of another treatment. However, it is also necessary to consider that other concomitant therapy with or instead with chemotherapy, e.g. to improve social counseling and facilitate visits to gerontologists, psychiatrists, and psychiatrists at medical clinics. Similarly, increasing exercise can be a wise way to cope with depression, so it is important that you have a condition for it. An association with pets in nursing homes has also been mentioned as a way to cope with feelings of loneliness. Clearly, then, there are a number of roads, both large and small. I would especially like to draw special attention to the fact that this discussion is quite foreign, and in Britain, even a minister of loneliness has been established, with the permission of a president for which the prime minister of Britain said: The Oneness of life is not partial. Loneliness can strike all of us, but together we can overcome it. The number of older citizens is growing in our community, but depression among them is likely to become a major health problem if it does not respond quickly and properly. The order of the committees to investigate these issues, as expected in the Parliament's arrangement, is therefore an urgent task and should be undertaken as soon as possible. I made a similar synod proposal 15 years ago, but the proposal was not completed. The vast majority of professionals who gave a review of the subject agreed that there was a need for research on depression among older citizens, and they welcomed the proposal. These include the surgeon general, the Board of Health Services, the Elderly Association, the Medical Council, and the Iceland's Senate. Now, 15 years later, the need is still greater and, in fact, more urgent. Finally, I want to make it very clear that we, sitting in this hall, should be much more concerned with how people in our country feel. We share here frequently in crowns and pennies. Of course, when it comes to sharing funds, it is important that we share our feelings with others. I think depression is a national ills that all of us can unite in trying to deal with, and this proposal is an effort to master the challenge, both by means of analysis and also by a list of actions. I certainly hope that the whole world of Congress can unite in this. Finally, I suggest that this case be referred to the World Health Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker Álafi Ágústsson, for his talk and for giving this case and for bringing attention to the problems of depression among older people and triggering the discussion. It's very important. As many people may know, I have some experience working with older people and those who suffer from this problem, and I can quite testify that he is mad. But what I've wondered about, and I just want to get the senator's speculation about the proposal is whether it was on the verge of having the group to work this a little smaller and point it into the process only immediately that what he makes of it becomes a plan of action. Much of the information is available. We may need more to respond to available information, such as why. A senator came on to create suicide and suicide risks. I just want to hear the senator's speculation about this, especially in view of the recent appointment. One man's health minister called on the issues of brain failure. It has a selected expert to produce a report that is the very opposite of the Ministry to cope with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u31	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the support and understanding that we have. A senator shows this matter. I also want to help you understand that I know that a member of the council knows these matters very well from earlier jobs and that I love his support in this matter. Regarding the fact that the group is too large, it is assumed that nine people are on the committee that has this role. I leave it only to the committee to determine if there is a reduction in the number. I don't think it in itself is too big a committee, but it's no big deal to me whether it's a little smaller. I think it's very important, however, that we get a little wide access to the committee, whether it's formal in the group or not, and I'm especially saying that older citizens need to be listened to themselves, not just to experts. Of course, they need to be listened to, but they also need to be listened to the people involved in this matter. In terms of a plan of action, I agree completely, so this is a two-way. There is a need to investigate and assess the problem, but measures need to be made and followed. The matter of Congress I present here has a twofold purpose, but most important, it is designed to be discussed in these matters. As I put it in my background, the problem is crazy, and it's just going to get worse. We need to respond in some way, and I think that all discussions about depression, loneliness, life - style, suicide, and attempts will be beneficial in the upbuilding way that I think we can all be alone in practicing. This is a problem that involves a large group, not just those who are dealing with depression, but all those who are close to the person who is going through spiritual distress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is to agree with the senator that the discussion is of utmost importance. It is of utmost importance that we avoid speaking of matters that may even be unpleasant or small, so called - I apologize to the president for this sleigh. But that's exactly how it is with a lot of cases involved in older people, that's what it is: Yes, well, should we be spending time talking about it? Of course we should. This group of people deserves our attention exactly the same as other members of society, and that is why it is so important that the movers make this issue and bring it up. I just want to roll up two points in addition to what's happened. One member said, on the one hand, about the health - class educational factors and a certain state - of - school awareness of the symptoms of depression among older people. It is of utmost importance that they be in there because at times, as the senator approached in his talk, these matters are run a little under the radar of the people. They may not even notice. The other thing I'd like to mention is that I think the first stop in these matters should be at the health care center, and in this regard, I give health - care calls as the highest level. A health minister is now talking about and is about to begin. That's where we're supposed to find these people, and we're supposed to step in there and try to help them in the field first, because it's probably where most of them are coming, at least One day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u33	The President's gonna tell you why. A senator uses the expression "beautiful " to a successful person.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u34	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take this for a minute. Of course, I'll agree. In order to see the problem, a member of the body needs to consider that a health - care profession is a source of awareness and education. In all too many cases, these problems, depression of older citizens, may go unnoticed. It has simply been thought that this was a natural form of aging, which is not. Getting older is a privilege, and we should take care of things in a way that makes people feel good. There are so many ways to cope with depression. As I mentioned earlier, depression can be life - threatening, but in the majority of cases it can be managed in one way or another. The knowledge of the health - care providers and those close to this group is key both to identify depression and should not be confused with the fact that people are getting older. Depression is, as I say, the most medical illness, as far as I know, and therefore, it is important that we have a long list of measures, both medical treatments, but also total therapy, physical activity, etc. There are so many ways to make people feel better. A man's a man's fun. It's also about the fact that older people don't get lonely. We all know it in our own family with older citizens who are isolated, and it's depressing when you're alone in an institution or alone at home and associating with other people. We should face this, not just the public, for all families to consider. All of us are concerned with how our closest older ones feel. All of us can do better to care for our older relatives or friends, regardless of their circumstances, in order to break up only the ordinary and make them feel better. This, of course, applies to all ages, but there is a special reason for my opinion, Mr. President, to now examine the depression of older citizens who have been ignored for too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Álán Ágúst Ólafur of Ágústsson for this synopsis proposal to investigate the depression of older citizens. I'm just saying, it needs to be done. But I'm going to go to another point, based on the fact that a lot of people on this committee were being complained. On the contrary, I'd like to add people and I feel like they're looking for a representative of Iceland's Scaring Association. True, it is admitted that when an older citizen grows older, he ceases to be an invalid and gets well - off under the government. Being an invalid and becoming an older citizen causes depression because it quickly reduces its income. Therefore, their representative should truly be members of the committee. It has also been suggested that in the case of older citizens, 10% of them are living in poverty. Then there's another 10% on the bounds of poverty, according to older citizens' Society. Those who are forgotten in this number are those who are very poor among the elderly. The majority of Icelandic citizens from foreign lands are affected by land management and are expected to live on this scale without charge. Then there is uncertainty about my own physical therapy. They're about to start sending out physiotherapy and make a farewell system. Long - term musculoskeletal problems will no doubt lead to depression, and physical therapy will need to be enhanced, but they will not reduce it as they look. We have also seen in the system that older couples are separated when one of them has to go to a nursing home or a medical facility. How unacceptable it is when a person who is completely unable to care for himself is sent home, and his spouse, who may be in no condition to accept the person, needs to start thinking about his or her sick mate. This can cause many problems and, indeed, depression. We must realize that an unlimited medication for the postoperative waiting list causes major depression. It is a serious matter when older citizens have to wait for months and even years for action that they need, in turn, an unlimited supply of analgesics and other drugs. It is known that the individual will develop tolerance and, therefore, always need more and more medications. We need to make sure that, in the past, people do not forget their lists. I'm not going to keep this all out of my mind under this council hearing and hope that in the interests of the welfare committee, which I expect to get the case you can add to the presence of a representative of the Quantum Coalition. I hope we deal with it there and work on the case so it can get back to the council and be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to initially thank a member of the council's odorary motion for putting it in place because here I believe it is a very important matter. The report shows that 12% of senior citizens display symptoms of depression, which will be half as common as in other age groups. That's not acceptable at all. It is anticipated that in the coming years and decades the elderly will increase rapidly, so we must prepare to deal much better with the problems that arise as soon as possible and look for any way to counteract depression among older people. In recent decades, society has changed dramatically. During the early part of the last century, Icelandic society changed rapidly from being a rural community to a community that produced other changes, such as. that the support of the extended family to older people was reduced. In the past, it may have been common for older ones to live with the younger ones, even among the youngest, children. More changes have occurred, e.g. are smaller families, fewer children are born today than are decades ago, and people also live longer. More important, between generations. People have children much later in their lives. When I was growing up, Mr. President, I had a few great-grandfathers and a great-grandfathers. I think it's less important today that people are able to boast about such things during their teenage years, at best, about them perhaps grandparents or even not. That is one reason too. Although we as a community have tried to cope with these changes with the leisure activities of older citizens, e.g. with gambling nights, walking clubs, etc., not all of this. In recent years, there has become a wide variety of activities that have become widely known. Of course, not everyone is equipped to enjoy this because of health problems and residences and other things. We're talking about a group of older civilians who'll be out there and deal with it, but a carrier wants to handle it. I agree to have to deal with depression among older people, which is a very important subject. Depression is not merely a costly disease when it is recommended in centenarians, where drug costs, abilities, and abilities can be dealt with, but is primarily leading to a worse quality of life. Mr. President. There is a shame in acknowledging that all too much older people live in isolation and feel lonely, people who laid the foundation for us to live today in a society of welfare that we will be so much concerned about. But at the same time, we look at the facts of this matter, i.e. common depression among older citizens. The number of suicides of older citizens is increasing, and suicide attempts are also suspected. It is a shame to accept it here in the General's symposium, but we do not treat the old people better than we do. So I welcome any action that can lead to its remedy. It is suggested that a committee of nine be formed to cover the measures to be taken and on the way to investigate the incidence of suicides and experiments among older citizens. I'm glad you're here. There are no new truths here. The health system must know this problem and may have some advice on your sleeve. What, then, is the explanation for the situation? Don't you think the money's in the right place? Do we stress dressing rather than content? Could it be that part of the explanation is the fact that older people who fell out of a job market are not making it easy again? It shows long - term lack of work among older ones in the workforce. Is there a way to look for explanations in the IRS, the impairment? Are we preventing the majority of older citizens who want to work and who can go back to the job market? Are we stopping it by the tax system? I think it needs to be examined, too. Do we not respect older ones enough and their contribution to the community? Has our worship of young people come to extremes? We don't like the old people, and for that, we're supposed to be ashamed of ourselves. We need to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u37	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Olafi Ágúst Ólafur of Ágústsson for this fine synopsis proposal. She is truly worth being followed. I'd like to mention that at the last legislature, I recommended that a government agency be established for the elderly. This matter will be returned to this council, for I have been through the march for eight or ten legislatures, either called by an agent of the elderly or by some representative of the elderly. In this case, we have called for a representative of the elderly. It refers, not to nine human governments, but to a very responsible office that is to be held outside the elderly, not merely as to their rights and where they are in charge, but also to have initiative consideration for all older citizens who are known to live alone and in the isolation facility in which they are many of them. That's a fact, and that's where you talk from experience. We know medically that age follows every aspect of decay. It's just a fact. These include the deterioration of brain function. Serotonin contracts. How important it is that older ones who are beginning to experience symptoms of anxiety and depression and who do not really want to leave the house be followed up and try to meet such ones as this! That's exactly what it is, the lack of serotonin. There are medications and medication is always justified when we really need them. In this case we are talking about isolation, and it is more painful than tears to see how extensive this is and how older citizens are simply forgotten. They are almost forgotten at home alone, as was the assessment of the economic situation of older citizens, not only for social status, but also for economic purposes. There was an investigation and a review, for a doctor's paper, that I think, of the services of older citizens who live at home alone after a hospital visit. 13 subjects were in the population, and it was found that all 13 presented a lack of nutrition. It was not 10% of them or 70% or 90% but 100% of 13 subjects in the analysis group. They all went through a lack of nutrition. Of course, you rejoice over all that is done in these matters in an effort to meet elderly ones. The fact is, older people do not just want to be in the way of anxiety and depression. Older people, our dads and moms, between 80s and 90s, don't want to bother us. They think they're distracting us because we have so much to do. And how sad it is for people to isolate themselves automatically because we are not good enough to follow them, if people have a backland and a family. We're not good enough to take care of the adults. We too are expected to do better. Just that each family thinks about their older burgers, their dad and mother, their grandparents, that we promise not to feel close to them and that we won't have time because we have so much to do that we don't care about them. There are so many things to look at. In the synonyms that a group of people have recommended and will measure again at this legislature, on the behalf of the elderly, it tells itself that if they take the initiative and sign the post, they may be comparable to what they are doing. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson provides for himself by appointing this nine - man team. The elderly's emissary is supposed to remain. There is no group of people to record something this time, but there will always be a interests officer for the elderly. Of course, it would be great for us to join hands, wherever we stand, and make both. First, there would be an older man, and then he would have this control group to help him define the status of older citizens. It has been demonstrated in small rural areas where there may not be much incentive for social activities to find that there is strong isolation. I'm just talking about my own dad, who'll be 90 years old next year, a man who's two years ago fishing and picking berries, but all of a sudden, even though he's physically healthy, I don't get him to visit Reykjavík because he's making a lot of money getting out of the house, beyond the town line. It's about you, no matter what you try to do, when you look at your own loved ones, it's just what I see my own father doing. It's a big heart thing to me, as I think must all of us, to hold on to those who have gotten us to someone and make us what we are today. It is well for us to be living longer - much more than a thrill now that we can be confident that we can expect to be 100 years old - as long as we are refreshed and refreshed. At that time, our spiritual well - being is vital. Of course, if we are depressed and suffer eternally, we will never be 100 years old. We do not even want to grow up to be 100 years in those circumstances. It is not just the social factor that is completely overemphasizing too many adults but the amazing poverty that far too many older citizens have, the great anxiety that comes from not being able to release their blood pressure drugs, cannot solve their medication. Can you imagine? They are facing it. I know. A lot of seniors have come to me and cry in my arms because they can't buy their meds. What kind of community is this? And what will result? As a result, a respectable president, is that older ones who have fought through life are unable to find any purpose and cannot even invest in the drugs that are vital for them. There are so many things to look at, and that's why I think it's very important in my discussion of this council decision that I'm giving my heart to, that we're fully committed to the interests of the deputy. He will map this so that we can really use ourselves to change the future. I have no doubt that the older ones'anxiety and depression can be greatly reduced by showing by their actions that they are just what we want and can do. Thank you. A senator again for this fine suggestion. There's no question that she's supported her brain with the Gang of the People.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u38	V.E.G. President. Like any other dog. I'd like to start by thanking you for this council-sounding proposal and foreman, please. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, Auguste for stating this matter. Much of the report is really interesting and brings us to our attention, e.g. Therefore, when people go to a hospital or nursing home, they are increasingly given antidepressants. That, on its own, makes a lot of thought. I would like to shock this thought in a news report in RUS that appeared today on a study of people in nursing homes who are brain failure or have poor intellectual thoughts, and that the needs of these people are often misinformed. Rather than wondering what is really involved when they are mostly lacking in a fulfillment of so - called basic needs, these people are on antipsychotic medication. Another thing that caught my attention in the story about this study was the University of Akureyri, if I recall correctly, that the use of antipsychotic drugs at institutions is less out of the capital. I also find this a remarkable fact, so I need to examine more carefully what you can do to intervene sooner. I cut it at the end of the day. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson discussed that exercise, interviews, and social skills could be possible when dealing with older citizens, thus reducing antipsychotics in this group of people. I'd also like to point out that that that's exactly what we've always been discussing in general with people in the country, that we should be able to reduce the use of antipsychotics, only if we cherish the useful methods we've been discussing for a long time. Finally, I'd like to call attention to a story published in VOLV yesterday about a study conducted at the University of Akureyri. Kristín Sigurðardóttir, a professor of nurses there, and others in the world's well - being of people over 65 years of age in the north. The objective of this study was to identify factors that would affect the well - being of older citizens. Actually, I haven't read the study as such, but I'm giving myself that it's all about so-called positive psychology, i.e. to look at what is good, what is good, and to keep the approach on what needs to be examined through what is well done instead of thinking about what is wrong. The mean age of the enrolled subjects was 75 years, the population was 175, and the criteria for participation in this study were that of the people living at home. Early data indicate that people are generally well - known, and there are certainly factors that affect how they measure their status, to form what has been presented here today, whether people have sufficient income. It seems to be a prominent part of how people feel, and it is known to us personally. You also need to be spiritually well - meaning, so that people think not only of your physical feelings but also of the social and financial factors I mentioned earlier. This gives us the evidence that we must share all these factors when we recognize a situation or how people share it in the community. The report also stated that there is more about prescription items in urban areas, just as it was said in nursing homes in the capital area, they were giving more antipsychotics. It may be a bit silly to say this, but it's an increase in the availability of drugs. I'm going to allow myself to take the medical care of Akureyri anyway because it has access to health care, which is especially bad. It sounds to me, though, that there is improvement, and there is something else in this: Those who live in rural areas certainly have more work to do, as they say, than they let themselves have it. Those in the city will receive the medication. There are all kinds of friends on this subject that need to be considered. I'd like to make a decision if I had a problem. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson that it would probably be useful to have a representative of the Quantum Alliance inside this group. I noticed that we have a representative of an older citizen who is a very good citizen, and I like that the committee is due in June 2020. I think it would be good for the committee to bring up some kind of operation plan. We're often talking about groups like this or mentioning something that then disappears into a drawer, but I just don't think we have time to wait for it. I'm here for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u39	A respectable president. I like it like the rest of us. Senators who have come up here celebrate this case. I can't say that I'm a psychiatrist or a psychiatrist, so I can't give you any guidance on how to overcome the depression of others. However, it's a disease I know very well, and I think it's important that we keep in mind, when we're going to deal with such a matter, what the problem is. At any rate, I'd like to say that depression has a more misunderstood diagnosis that people are receiving. Another highly misunderstood analysis is addiction. People tend to think that depression is merely a feeling of distress, but it is not necessarily depression. Feeling unwell can be normal, e.g. Because something bad has happened to you. What you call it when it works, you got good income, you got a good social situation, you got a good family and friends, you got a good financial situation, etc. But do you always feel that the end of the world is near? This is one of the most clear symptoms of depression. Then there are different stages of depression, and other problems can be accompanied by complications. As I say, someone who has an education in that diagnosis is needed to distinguish each case individually, as there are many, complex, and complexities. According to this, individuals who are depressed are, of course, more vulnerable to situations that make them feel unwell. It was well described in a movie I ever saw. It was described in a courtroom that so - called healthy people or ordinary people had such flat records, and when bad things happened, the record pushed into this direction a little, and when something good happened, it would only go the other way, but for those who suffered from depression, the plate leaned slightly. It would take a little less to make people feel bad and a little bit more comfortable. It would always be some kind of emotional debt to the environment. That's a pretty good description of the depressed. Therefore, you must warn against the idea that for depression to develop, it is enough to solve a little of the obvious problems that exist. That's not necessarily enough. The calmness of depression is not necessarily the presence of bad circumstances, such as economic worries, the loss of a mate, or something similar. All of this makes things worse, but it may not be enough to deal with certain problems. Depression is such a disease that it is a little more complex than that. He is not simply a reflection of the fact that everything is lost. Therefore, even if you cannot attach your finger to any real, visible problems, you may feel depressed. It's a little important to keep this in mind. On the other hand, when it comes to the elderly, there are changes in their circumstances and certainly can make people feel very uncomfortable without necessarily having a clinical depression. Of course, we have an obligation to fix the same problems without necessarily teaching them to suffer from depression. However, as shown in a report that I consider correct, the situation of the elderly is different. Clearly, more is involved in losing a mate, friends, people you know. As we get older, those of us who are so lucky have to get old, sad to get used to the fact that people fall away to a greater degree than when we are young. More likely there is expected to be inactivity, loneliness, effortlessness, and similar loss of independence and financial concerns, as is done in the report. All of this has a powerful effect and makes this group especially unique when it comes to depression. But I also think that we must bear in mind that when identifying this group's depression, the difference between clinical depression, i.e. depression, which may affect people who do not necessarily have many great and visible problems, or at least not to the point of explaining feelings of distress, and feelings that are caused by circumstances that are simply accursed. A few of the councilmen before me have spoken of a little of this awful situation, since we go, I mean, not too well with older people. It is often left out, not only in systems, but also in discussions. I know it only because I've been young - and still young to many people - that it's something you don't think of until it's over. Then it is only too late to do what could have been done earlier in order to meet future challenges. I think it's endemic. It's not only the thoughtlessness of people when they're young to see how they're going to have things in the future, the simple things such as putting down or paying off debts or something like that, but also the legislature agreement as well as the executional community. The elderly are viewed as a certain amount of left over in the community. Not only is it morally wrong but this is a challenge beyond what has been before because the elderly will increase so much. It's the demographic development today. The number of elderly persons will increase greatly because of the decrease in childbearing rate as people from a large generation grow older. If we are not just talking about clinical depression, it is good to remember that older generations are not all the same. I often say to older people who feel that they are conservative and anything: Older people don't understand computers worse because they're older. This is because he grew up and came to know life and life at a time when computers did not exist. That is why older people often work for younger people as if they were somehow wrong, not exactly in the way of time, which is a symptom of our being raised at different times. In 1990 and vice versa, what seemed to be completely self - righteous 1950 is not common sense. Here, too, there will be discrepancies between how the generations can really understand one another's needs and each other's needs. If a 30 - year - old is going to start helping a 70 - year - old to solve his problem, he may need to draw from the circumstances of 70 persons and the common sense, the world scene, the tool that 70 - year - old can use, not simply all that the 30 - year - old may feel that it is possible to do. I'm sure it works both ways. There is some positive news for the older generations of the future, i.e. The people who become the older generation later. Technology changes are creating opportunities, e.g. In terms of social resources and the potential for efficacy, opportunities that are not necessarily useful to older ones because they did not grow up at a time when technology was as widespread as much used to the parts it is used today. It is also well connected with disability and how technology can be used to solve problems affecting people who have physical or mental limitations, whether because of age or for other reasons. I don't know if I had a definite point of this speech, a respectable president, but I thought it was right, especially in the light of others'debates. In contrast with clinical depression, which can affect people even when things seem all right, and the bad conditions that make them feel bad. There is a distinction, and it is not important because one thing is more important than the other, but the two problems will be solved in a different way. For example, the administration and psychological counseling work very well in clinical depression, since circumstances may not be the root of the problem but other factors. Then we should not reject it and pretend that medication is a problem. Administration is not an automatic problem, it is an excellent tool that can be used to solve problems, but it is obviously not the right tool to solve problems when they are not biological but because of the individual's circumstances. This is all something we need to think about about about the generations before they become the older generation. This is the best way to deal with all problems. Of course, we should not let those who are now older get ahead of us, as the report says, do all we can to overcome this serious problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olafi Ágúst Ólafur of Ágústsson for his proposal of need and good. I'd also like to thank you for the talks that have been given and harmony among members of Congress on the importance of this matter. Me and the media support it wholeheartedly. What I wanted especially to focus on is a professional program of older people. The report shows much interesting about the search for ways that are best lost to prevent depression among older citizens. I believe that an older citizen's job has a significant role in working against a sad, sad sadness that seems to control a large percentage of older people, if thought to be the case. The report says that as many as 30% of the elderly who consult a family doctor have major symptoms of depression. That's an enormous figure. They show the seriousness of the situation and the need to deal with it. An interesting chapter in a report entitled The Special Attitude of Older Citizens. It lists factors mentioned in talks and debates. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson mentioned in particular. I would like to pause where the loss of a mate after a long marriage, loneliness, effortlessness, and inactivity is spoken of. I believe, Mr. President, these are underappreciated aspects of the problem. They're laying a stone in the street of an older citizen getting money and staying out in the workplace. That's why, and we've been talking in the middle of the category, to reduce the decline in pensions due to the employed older citizens. The central category has suggested at the council that employment income does not interfere with pensions and has also suggested to raise the age of retirement for the state's employees so that they can work to 73 years of age. These are all the suggestions for allowing senior citizens to stay at work for longer periods. It's a public health matter. When older ones leave the job market and retire, as mentioned in talks, they are certainly concerned about financial matters, as well as not going to secular work that people may have done for decades. The changes in the routine of life can cause people to experience depression and a life - style that is very important. With regard to the work done by older people, it is good to consider that by calculating it is shown that government funds are actually profiting from the arrangement at hand, taking into account the growth of income and money tax returns to the economy when older citizens are off to the labour market. The fact is, many older citizens want to work longer, and they do not have the authority to put a stone in their streets. That is our opinion in the Middle East, and we have fought for it. Work should not be viewed as some form of punishment. It has to be a significant tax charge to older citizens with income under the strategium. There is also a way to counteract discrimination, so to speak. It is believed, and that I believe, from research, that three out of four older residents of the country's pensions do not reach the level of consumption criteria for the Ministry of Health. Of course, this is a very serious matter. Also, research has shown that as many as 30% of senior citizens would wish to work if it did not affect their rights. If we put it in context, these are 30% of people aged 65◯71 or between 5,000 and 6,000 people, so there are a large number of them. Although it is unlikely that everyone could think of work, there is strong evidence that a relatively large number would want to start a job or that they would be allowed to stay in the job market. It has also been shown in studies that the level of work that is most suitable for older people is about 50%. It has also been observed that many people are looking for business, and this is interesting because there has been a shortage of workers in the sector and that it would be ideal to give older citizens a chance. There are some examples that, e.g. The Kingdom Hall has hired older people, and it has to be said, as it is, that older citizens have done very well and are generally open to the ministry, so here they are effective and experienced active workers. If there were to be a break in connection with commercial contributions, as is done today, it would have basically two effects on the state funds status. First of all, the benefits are improving. On the other hand, people probably do more work, and that adds to their tax dollars. The age mix of those living in this country is changing as we know it and the proportion of older people is growing. That's why it's urgent that we deal with this. We know that older ones'interest in employment will be clarified, including the following: the improved health of older citizens, of course very positive ones, and the prospects for survival are increasing. It's one of the most important interests of senior citizens, so I have to say that it is absolutely necessary in this urgent discussion to realize that there are ways that you can fix the situation fairly fast and well, i.e. to give senior citizens a chance to stay at work for a longer time, as is convenient for them. That's important. I'm convinced that it can be both's interests, including an employer, to get e.g. Older people in part-time work. Finally, Mr. President, I believe it is urgent that we pay for this important factor, the job of older people, and that it has no other effect than the fact that they pay taxes on their wages as well as others. I thank you for this important suggestion and for the fine discussion that has been made available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u41	A respectable president. I came up here especially to make you happy. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson. I see that he and his lawsuits are totally in harmony with the one we've seen at the people's Tracks, in terms of the elderly's employment initiative. We made a pact proposal at the last legislation meeting, which showed that senior citizens should not be cut off for pay. In the article on the case, we were based on a well - thought - out assessment and calculations that indicate that, in reality, government funds will be more likely to benefit from this financial advantage, or from a well - thought - out estimate of 1,25,3 billion dollars, apart from what is involved, as is true. A senator rightly points out, and we've been talking about here today, that working is a public health matter for the elderly. The fact is, we go back very much as we retire in later years. We are more likely to become isolated and all of that. This is one of our agreements in springtime. V.E.G. The social and child - care minister appointed a group to hold this part, the job of the elderly without impairment, and whether the calculations we have proposed from the finest administrative authority, the Arnþórsson son of Arnor are correct. That's what we're waiting for. I understand that the results of this Minister's investigation will be seen in March or April next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator may not have much to say on the subject. We wholeheartedly agree on the importance of this matter. It is important that members of Parliament agree to give older people the opportunity to stay in the job market. It has been shown that up to 30% of senior citizens have a heart problem that might somehow consider working. Then, as they often say, secular work makes a person feel superior. The social element is important, that people can be with other people, and that, as they say, they can benefit. To that end, Mr. President, we also need to make some adjustments in our attitude toward older people. Unfortunately, respect for older people has been shown to cross the line of society and other communities, and that is unfortunate. This is the generation that we owe much to and should show a measure of respect. For employment purposes, e.g. When people apply for jobs, they always ask about their age. If the person is now approaching 70 years of age the application is, I think, just a very often push aside, and that's too bad. I know that in the United States, when people apply for a job, it is forbidden to ask questions about age. In this country it is not really possible for employers to see what the applicant is like because a social security number is needed. Ask yourself, " Should it not be merely to look at these matters, that there should be no distinctions due to age? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u43	Thank you. A senator for the record. In answer to me before, there was no direct question. I just wanted to agree with what. paritaprevir The daughter of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, and what he had to say, and now I will do it again. I don't know any better than we've heard it from a lot of highly respected members of society who may have fallen out of their regular job and are over 50 years old, the landmark shows that the person was born sometime after 1960, think about it, and then it's just: 'The social security number no' says no. You don't even get to get an interview and have a hard time getting laid. I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't. A senator would have made it easy for us to choose a job in the community based on our social security numbers, even though it's just a really great ID. I don't doubt it. But better, if it's enough. We really need to put our arms around what we're doing right now. I find that with the discussion that has been repeated at the Council, it's becoming a much greater awakening in the direction that we must do better. Thanks again. paritaprevir Ágúst Augustus Ólafur of Ágústsson for bringing in this wonderful concierge that I know we're going to carry on through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u44	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator may want to say that he is right. A senator specifically mentioned with his 50 - year - old age group that it is difficult to find a job once you have reached that goal in life, the fine phase. This week at the Central Party, we are conducting a special discussion on the employment program of those 50 years of age. That's why. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who represents this discussion, will be very interesting to listen to. It's a matter of great importance in society, and it also attracts the particular group of people we are discussing here, paying the streets of these people for employment participation, and not discrimination due to age. It's something the whole world should agree on. It is not to be tolerated, and it needs to be found that this is not the case because it affects people's spiritual well - being and costs society very much at the end of the day. The conjugal proposal we're discussing here in particular is a very public health matter and I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u46	Mr. President. I would like to say a few words at the end of this discussion. I thank you very much for the support that has been shown to all members of the council who have participated in the discussion. Seems to me to be transnational support for the Congress resolution, so I have high hopes that it will slide through quickly and well. I would like to respond only to the comments of individual senators with very few words and begin with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, pointed out whether it was expected to expand or increase to the committee that would have this role and take in a representative from the Quantum Community. I feel that having more members in the work of that committee is entirely possible. As I mentioned earlier today, I think it is important not only to have so - called experts on this committee but also to represent the groups involved, and then, of course, I'm talking about older citizens themselves. I also agree with what is said here about the need to examine the interaction between depression and the income of older citizens. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland pointed out problems that some struggle with, e.g. to relieve their medication. Of course, there is a relationship, we have a group of individuals who do not have much to play, and this affects the spiritual health of that group. I also agree with each other. paritaprevir Inga Sæland regarding the office of the senior interests officer. Sæland Gorgeland has been a zealous fighter for the benefit and quality of older citizens and should be especially commended for the language that she so highly insists on, and I express my support to her case in this regard. You're right. paritaprevir Similarly, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson shows that the root cause of depression can be complex. Therefore, it is important that this is done carefully and that the committee with the responsibility of identifying the problem and performing procedures is aware that this is not a simple solution. Depression is a complex and life - threatening disease, as I had previously thought, but it is likely possible to solve some improvement. I also agree with it as well. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson said about the employment of senior citizens. We need to consider this in this context too. Social isolation that can become common among older citizens is a concern after people stop working or get out of work. I think that in this case it takes flexibility and freedom of choice to be the key thing. I don't think we're going to use the power and cultured seniors to the extent we should. We should be much more flexible in this regard. As I mentioned in my speech, you're enjoying yourself. We are social creatures as animal species, and it is important that we associate with one another. The pace must not be so prevalent in society that we stop caring for one another. When it comes to older ones in our lives and how we treat them, each family needs to take a look at itself. We're supposed to be doing much better, and we're supposed to bridge the gaps between generations. I think the youngest generation will benefit especially from having close contact with its grandparents, grandparents, etc. So I think this is something that the whole community can profit and profit from, and that it simply improves life. Finally, Mr. President, I expect we'll be able to handle this situation very quickly and well. To me, there is no reason not to agree. We need to stay awake because this is where we get all kinds of stuff, and we need to put it first. This is one of the Union's priorities. We decided to put it on the program first at the beginning of this session. This is the first assembly case I propose for this council. Mr. President. I think that there are few cases bigger than just those that have to do with the happiness of life and the purpose of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u47	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on a ground-wide action programme. 20 is the 20th matter of this council. The one here is the 1st manifester of the matter, and other members of the Convention, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson and Þórarinn Young Ingi Pétursson. The suggestion itself reads: The General concluded to hide the government from implementing a national programme for funding the legislation and the rules for the provision and use of resources on land, as well as measures to strengthen the basis for follow-up of such regulations. The plan of action aims to ensure the possession of citizens of Iceland, as well as to provide further opportunities for entire areas of rural areas and a broad range of sustainable agriculture and food production in the country. Then there are seven projects and measures aimed at highlighting how many improved projects are being made around the country. The seven tasks are: 1st A law will be established that a defined relationship with Iceland is essential to the possession of land on land and the limitations of the number of soils owned by the same people. 2. We're going to have a wedding. It'll be permissible. 3. The Environmental and Resource Ministry hastens the production of agrienvironmental systems and other means of identifying habitats in rural areas. 4. The legislation in the area of land registration and property boundaries will be reviewed. 5. Farming conditions will be updated. 6th If you come to a loan fund for your land, you will pay for it. 7. The laws relating to the provision of land and land resources will be reviewed in the light of other measures in this programme and experience with their implementations such as land law, eutrophication and hunting laws. Then it is assumed that Prime Minister will report to the General Report on the progress of the programme on February 1, 2021. A detailed report follows the suggestion, although it is merely killed on the main points for each action. I won't be able to review all the information that comes out there, but I'll kill on key points. The proposal suggests that the government will implement the implementation of the legislation and the rules for the disposition and use of resources on land as well as measures to support the compliance of such rules. The land is a limited resource, the land itself, the soil and the vegetation that thrives there. In addition, a country can follow valuable additional resources. The treatment and use of the land are relevant now and in the future. Therefore, there is great public interest in national decision making and all decision-making initiatives on possession and land use have an impact on future public interests. So, like any other property, they cannot have the same rules of buying and selling land. Governments can use various means to influence the provision of the land. It is important to make a basic decision on how governments will protect public interest in this area. In order for this to work, laws, rules, and procedures must be coordinated, which is the objective of the programme. In order to succeed, particular attention must be made to the interaction between laws, planning plans, and land use objectives and basic information about the country. Then again to the action: The first action is that a defined relationship with Iceland is essential to the possession of land on land and the limitations of the number of land mines that the same person can own. An enforcing legal environment allows more than 500 million people to buy land and other property here on land, with the same conditions as Icelandic citizens. Transporters believe that there will be an urgent need for a defined relationship with Iceland to be the basis for the possession of land on land, although in recent years there has been an increase in the attendance of people who do not live in Iceland after possession of land land. There are also cases where the same person does not have a number of earths and responses that are unknown and unclear. In recent years various groups of people have considered these issues, especially since the possession of farms and agricultural land. In September 2018, such a team of workers gave credit to a seafaring and agricultural minister. It provided eight suggestions on how to maintain agricultural land and live in the rural areas by changing land shapes and shapes. There is now further work to be done by the prime minister with the proposals to explain the legal framework for land and land exchanges, including the status of national rights and water rights, as presented in the prime debate. In addition, there is an information gathering on land property. The suggestion that we discuss is made to show that the project is even more extensive than the work that is already started and that it is important to follow the case in many areas. The procedure must be made to observe the limitations that result from 72 C.E. The Constitution on privacy rights as well as the commitments that Iceland has made to its involvement in the European Economic Area Convention and must, in particular, look to Section 40. The agreement on free capital transport within the region. The movers, however, point out that it seems that opening up sources has been longer than Iceland's commitments as agreed. As a result of the contract, possession of property is permitted to be restricted by law and non-impliatory activities based on the established public interest targets. I'd like to review a further definition of possible implementation of such rules, but as noted earlier, the assessment of transporters is that it is properly required for a buyer to live in Iceland, that it is the principle, but the exceptions would be further developed. Emphasis on the fact that the purpose of the wedding is clear. Many goals that strengthen habitats and communities can fall there, such as farming, building a source of resources, landing or innovation, and specialisation of the region, such as cultural value, or nature. If so, the principle will be that the same person cannot own more than one earth without a regular home but could have more soiled people or other land - carrying activities that he operates on adjacent soils or neighboring lands. As noted earlier, a second operation is to be granted a license to secure rural areas and to keep land use. The implementation of such rules would include look to Norwegians and dance models and ensure that the terms of permission are clear, accurate and transparent. The objective criteria will then be met for the implementation of a license protocol. By making a land traffic permit, there will also be a need for communication between state and rural society to be possible by law, rules and regulations of the main, regional, and shared organisations. It is also important to consider specifically whether to reimburse local society's premium to the ground by decomposing aquifers, No. 81/2004, but the permit and the premium may achieve some of the same objectives. In order for this to be possible, you need to better prepare the instruments that need to be used in the sentences of guidelines, such as strategy and methodologies. Plans might be used both to set targets on which land is desirable and to define which country is important to preserve as agrienvironmental land. Then the third operation will enter with regard to the organization. Governments and the general public influence land use through rural planning. An organization could define where it could be possible to make a full - wound field demand, on the basis of a building or an infrastructure, such as roads, electricity, and fiber optics. The aims of agrienvironment schemes must also be based on the aims of agriculture use and conservation but may also be based on the aims of social, cohesion, the impact of entire populations on road safety and monitoring of land, memory and natural protection areas. The European Environment and Resource Ministry, in cooperation with the Organization, the European Union's Environment Agency, the National Farming Agency, the National Institutes of Farmies, the Forest and the National Institutes of Iceland, is expected to provide guidelines on agrienvironmental design and other policies on land use. Many rural communities have been experimenting in this area, but there is no coordination and leadership to achieve better results. The fourth action for a national ownership file with narrow limits of possession, one of the reasons that it is possible to comply with national land management regulations. The laws in force and on the registration of property boundaries are so out - of - date, since computers and modern measuring devices were not in existence when they were written. It contains, for example, meant the book of John, computers were not in existence then. Transporters agree with this and insist on reviewing a regular work on land registration and landmarks as soon as possible, followed by initiatives in Iceland's National Book on registration and withdrawal, especially in rural areas. The fifth operation is that rural real estate assessments will be updated, but taxation could be used to influence real estate use. Mayo, e.g. Applying real estate tax to rural areas that stimulate innovation. Its premise is improved land ownership and an updated real estate assessment, but there is an example that the world's real estate assessments have not been updated for decades. The sixth action is to set up a loan fund because of land purchases. It suggests that credit will be made to a loan that only lends to the farms as such, not to housing or operating. Such a fund could, in some cases, really belong to the earth, but payments merely depend on a remuneration requirement of the country's investment. The seventh action is that land legislation and land resources will be reviewed in the light of the project. The emphasis on this review needs to be determined by the implementation of other measures in the programme and should include: To review the objectives of the land's ownership, responsibilities, and responsibilities in possession of land, related to the combined use of land and provision benefits, and to take them to the vicinity of the community, whether for the farms, rural society, or just for the state's funds. Clearly, there are some things in current legislation that are not really consistent with the changes in land use in recent years. Then I have made an account of the seven operations in the proposal and suggest that the case be referred to a professional committee. I encourage the committee to act quickly on the subject. It is very important that the first steps under the implementation of the strategy will be phased as soon as they first need to be added to the land, land, land and resources, for rules, implementation and follow-up. The well - thought - out management of countries and possessions is one of the fundamental factors in the economic development of the social and sustainable use of nature and therefore the inevitable tasks of the government. As has been in many respects in recent years, there must not be any apathy in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u48	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you to your prominent storyteller, Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir. Thank you very much. It's fine, but I have a few questions. I did not go very deeply into the report, but I still stopped the plan of action presented here. First, I'd like to start with the injection shown in point No. 1of which says legalisation will be the rules for a defined relationship to Iceland as the basis for possessing land on land and for the limitations of the number of land owned by the same person. There I wondered, " Does it have any effect if the earth is united, whether the size of the ground is of any importance, or whether these factors are proposed to be taken out of parentheses? ' My second question now is on point No. 5 That rural real - estate assessment will be updated. Then I wondered, " Is this really going to contribute to an increase in real estate evaluation of a country that's not new? ' This could mean a curse on landowners, perhaps encouraging them rather than letting them sell. I'll make it work for the first episode.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. With regard to the limitations, this all suggests that it cannot be said: "This is what it is, and this is not the way it is. ' Therefore, extensive consultations need to be made, to maintain contact with an organization, and to view the work being done in the country. Thus, a farmer with more than an average farm under his present circumstances may have three to five below, and many of the land's size may not necessarily be measured by the size of a cultivated land or by the size of a farmer. The key point, then, is that both rural society and the State have access to the situation to make wise decisions based on local circumstances. In terms of real-estate assessment, the natural procedure is set out for multiple purposes. It is of utmost importance for all who own a land, whether it is the government or for someone else, to evaluate its worth. In my opinion, it's one of the reasons for being careless in the area that land has not been viewed as the very resource it really is. One reason is that land and property on earth are properly evaluated. Depending on the situation in the rural community, they may wonder if this is, for example, the case. There is reason to increase real estate evaluations in non-efficient houses, especially if they are needed in the region or in order to encourage their use for innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u50	V.E.G. President. I thank you so much for your clear answers. There are two things that stand out, on the one hand, Dot No. 6th They discuss loans because of land purchases, and I wondered, " What kind of loan would there be, and who would borrow? ' Are there conditions set there? Hv. paritaprevir My favorite Anna Sævarsdóttir encouraged the job committee, that it would be worked fast and well, and my second point is that I cut by the fact that I'm not supposed to publish this plan until 2021, and I think it's pretty late. I wondered if we're not going to react to the problem that is now, if this can just wait so long, if it's in the picture to speed it up, to change it so that even a matter for 2020 is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. More good questions for a senator. Regarding the date mentioned above, it is being suggested that this will be a report on the progress of the programme; however, a date might be selected from a point of view that it would be realistic for all actions to be started. It is unrealistic that all will be completed, but it is realistic that any action would be completed, even for some, but not for the whole plan as such. The other thing was about the loan fund. This procedure is not precisely implemented in text with the suggestion, but it is stated that a building agency would be assigned to organise a loan class that would primarily have the responsibility to lend to those who are going to live on a farm.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u52	Mr. President. I thank a traveling overseer, Anna Sævarsdóttir, for making this proposal and counting on very important matters and in many ways very important. Of course, much of what is presented here is not something that needs meditation. The occasion is likely large - scale domestic purchases of foreign people here on a land that is unnecessary. But what I was going to ask was, first of all, what is happening here about the willingness of the movers to have a plan of action that has the goal of ensuring the possession of citizens of the land on earth in Iceland. First of all, I'm going to ask you a little questions about the 40th grader's will. The European Economic Convention, which points out that it seems as if this is going beyond the contract to open up resources to buy land. I'm asking if it's the will of the carriers to narrow them off the record. The suggestion is well made, it is less than six pages, but I would also like to ask, "Why on earth - if the will I read here - is not fully developed to offer suggestions on foreign funerals? " I understand the need for a lot of changes that came out there. Why, though, do the transporters not offer full suggestions on the seemingly obvious point? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions are brilliant. As noted by whiskers. A senator is nothing. There are many things in this regard that need much and good thought, and it is important that the committee reviews many points. Although the point is clear, to the point, to the point, to the point, to the point, to the point, to the point, to the point of one operation, and to some places, all of this requires further consideration, and what may also be being suggested is that the decision for one operation affects how the next one is implemented. Hv. A senator entered the country. It is very clear here that the people of the country are those who have defined ties with the country, live here, live here, or run business here. Why not bring in a bill? That is exactly the same reason. It is put forward, and it oversees the goal, but it may be more effective than just one, and it is important to bring in the most qualified lawyers in the country. It's something that needs a lot of bullying. More than that, as shown in the report, the same issues are being handled in another area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm surprised at the way men are straddling. This has now been in the discussion for years and years. This is not new. This case has been reexamined. This report seems to be very useful, on six pages. Why are these suggestions not presented today? What are people waiting for? What is the government waiting for? This comes from the senators of the forward party. The report shows that work has been done and that it has often been assigned to groups of people who have been working on it. Last September 2018, a group of workers returned proposals to the seafaring and agricultural ministers and are now working the case in the Ministry of Presidency. What are people waiting for? Will the work at the Ministry of Presidency be cut and the last few years have not been accomplished? Can a messenger explain to me how it can be that this proposal does not arise?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u55	A respectable president. Of course, these jobs overlap, and this work is being done. This proposal simply goes on to say that to reach all the goals that need to be met, you need to take extra and more work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u56	How long are you gonna make it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u57	This work is in full effect and will arrive sooner than later. It is very important to start this discussion about the first operation, and then this discussion suggests a change of law from the country's major lawyers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u58	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking someone for the story. Now, when you read the proposal, there's no question that its main purpose is to prevent foreigners from owning land in Iceland. It is indicated in the introduction to ensure that the possession of the people of the country should be guaranteed and then legally established rules on a defined relationship with Iceland are essential for possession. Whenever laws and rules are being made, ask yourself: " What is the need? What prompts the change? Then I'd like to ask. transporter: What data are behind? What is the issue, or what is imminent? Have foreigners found much of the earth? Is that what we're going to do? Does anything indicate that the possession of foreigners is not the possession of the Icelanders? It would be nice to be informed. Is it not more reasonable, if there is a need to ensure that a certain country is treated, to do so by general rules aimed at all those who are interested in owning land and using property documents rather than putting it in this suit? [[The president calls.]] The question is also this: Have the movers considered the negative consequences that this can have on soil prices in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u59	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions, which are quite extensive. As indicated by the proposal, the objective is to ensure the possession of the people of the country, i.e. The people who live in the country or operate on land in Iceland, and to provide further opportunities for entire areas of rurality and a variety of sustainable agriculture and food production. In fact, it is being encouraged to make better uses of the land. I don't quite understand the question about general rules because the proposal goes out of making general rules, creating and doing general rules in the same way that has been done in the countries around us. This is especially called Denmark and Norway, where there is more restrictions on the provision of real estate and exchange by land. The principle in Denmark is e.g. that people who have not lived in Denmark or who have lived there for at least Five years will require the permission of the Ministry of Justice in order to obtain real estate rights in Denmark. The same applies to enterprises, companies, and organizations that do not have residences, as well as to foreign governments. Then there are those given. But, of course, these are all general rules. It's a big problem. We've often discussed it in this council hall that it is important that the nation owns the resources of the country, and this is simply part of the fact that those living in this country have the resources to control the resources that are here. It has been observed in many parts of the world that since humans have not been careful, these issues have gone hand in hand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u60	Mr. President. I thank you for the answers, which I felt were rather demeaning. I didn't realize that in answer to him. The senator's problem would be to resolve, or what would be so urgent and urgent. I'm not against any general rules about how we want our country to be new and how to handle resources and such. Still, I cannot understand why it is necessary to make it a goal to have them as foreigners. I can't figure it out. Like everyone else, they must submit to the law of the land. Regarding the Danish rules to be quoted, and discussed in a special agricultural or agricultural code section in Denmark, e.g. expected that the owner would not have to live on earth. He can have tenants on the ground. This is to ensure that certain activities are performed there. Doesn't this apply evenly to Icelanders? I just can't figure out what I'm up to. [[The president calls.]] Why, somehow, is this the red thread and the main part of it rather than the agriculture and treatment of the land? That's what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. There was no time to review all the problems in my previous response, but the problem is that the resources on the land are not new. Earth is not used to the extent possible, whether for food production or for anything else that creates valuable things in society. A key element of value in Icelandic society is that it is the people who live in Iceland who do. Of course, there are exceptions in Danish legislation, and it is a bit far of a matter to start tracking them all. It is in itself not to look to any other export, but, as it is now, I know only a lot of ground where the owner is not next, he is somewhere abroad. There's no antiquator in this country. This is a problem. [[The president calls.]] First, the earth is not new. This cannot be achieved in the relevant case of structural structure. The problem is big, so you could spend a long talk with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for her story. We're here to discuss a proposal for an action plan on Earth's affairs. That is an interesting suggestion. There's a lot in it. I'd especially like to pause at the 1st floor, which says legality will be the rules of a defined relationship with Iceland as the basis for possessing land on land and the limitations of the number of land mines owned by the same person. We know, Mr. President, that the purchase of foreign rich people on earth is a concern and must be restricted immediately by legalization. The wedding is not new, however, in all recent years that rich people have taken over many earths. It is true that the same local person has more than 40 land surfaces, but the matter is that governments have stood afar off and watched without action. The irony of fate is that at the same time as we have been celebrating a 100 - year - old sovereignty, we look after our country into the hands of foreigners who do not want to build it. In a number of countries, the land and the number of land mines are restricted to foreign trades. It is reasonable and reasonable to place such restrictions on land in the same way, as well as limited living, nature, and environmental objectives and culturally. By current law, no. 19/1966, on property rights and rights, those who intend to buy real estate rights in this country, including hunting rights, for example, to be Icelandic citizens or to have a legal home in Iceland. If it is a society, everyone must be Icelandic citizens or have a legal home in Iceland continuously for five years. In that law a minister is also given an exception from that condition, i.e. A minister can authorize annuity from these conditions. The members of the EEA, however, have the same rights as Icelandic citizens, as we know and in this suggestion that some 500 million people are actually able to buy real estate rights that show -- it's nice to mention this number because it shows how small we are in this context when it comes to these things. So it's a minister who allows foreign sources outside the EEA to buy land. It is my judgment, Mr. President, a clear example of how the General has delivered his power. It is reasonable that the legislator, the General, decides for himself which leaves the law's conditions. The EEA Convention provides an open and legal way for foreign people to land their land markets. It has to be said as it is that in Denmark and Norway, governments have not established any restrictions on these matters, such as the legislation of our neighboring nations. It would, therefore, be the closest thing to seeing my sentence to the Norwegian court on earth, but that law does not violate the 40th chapter. The EEA Convention and it should have been set up in the country a long time ago. The earth's nest is in harmony with our ideas about land's flourishing habitats. In May 2014, a careful report by the local Minister of Internal Affairs on proposals for improvement in these materials and needed legal adjustments was published. So it was suggested how the Council could handle the problem and do detailed work. Then, at once, the General could have handled this case with a well - prepared legal arrangement. It wasn't done. During the last assembly, four senators left the green and green with a synopsis proposal similar to this proposal. There was a very detailed suggestion on one 18 pages and can be commended for the work being done there. Sadly, it was a very well - structured proposal that did not succeed here. The purpose of it was to hide the government to prepare a reexamination of laws and regulations for the sale of farms and other crops, as well as the wilderness. The fine senators who made this suggestion wanted to set clear rules aimed at preventing the sale of foreign workers on farms that do not have homes and permanent homes. I wholeheartedly agreed with this suggestion and expressed my joy with it when she was moved here. At the same time, I pointed out in the discussion that the government was at the head of the left green, so it would have been relatively easy for the left to respond quickly to this important case of legalization. The prime minister could have cleared the path right away and dealt with it, but that was not done, and it was a fine thing to do. As we know, the left green task force in the government has had it for two years, and nothing has been done in preventing the sale of foreign people on earth. You have to say the right thing and keep it to yourself. At the same time, large soils have fallen into the hands of foreign people who do not want to build the land, so time is important in all of this, and it must be said as is a flaw in this suggestion, the period of time that is to be observed is that no conclusion should be made by 2021. We just can't afford to wait any longer, and we're looking up at it, as I mentioned earlier, that it's quite amazing when one individual, a foreign party, can have more than 40 ground, and I guess it's interesting to have more people. Mr. President. A council proposal has now been made by members of the Agency for a domestic plan of action. Of course, it's the best and the most interesting thing in the proposal, but it's exactly the same with the candidates and the left greens, they don't seem to realize that they're in the government and can handle the situation right away. I cut especially by word. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter'sneak isn't supposed to be unsatisfactory in this matter. I couldn't agree with her in that, but it's just a fact that there's apathy in this case at the government home. Everybody sees black and white. Here are members of Congress offering suggestions to try to handle this, but there is no interest in the government home. Left greens have had two years in the Ministry of Presidency to react and nothing happens. In this context, lack of sense and determination are the words that apply when the government is referred to in this context in order to deal with the massive purchases of foreigners on earth. This inadequacy and the moral fear of the government, Mr. President, is shouting. Clearly, there is no interest in the government to handle this important issue. It's just better to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u63	Mr. President. It was a sign of nothing, i.e. That the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was not doing anything about these matters. It is refreshing. I'm impressed. A senator has a lot of resources, and he knows things about what's going on in councils, but I can tell him that both my proposals were first and foremost. A senator referred to and so here are reminders so that certain factors will not be forgotten when things are being worked out. The reports have been submitted and I can inform you what to do. A senator says we're going to have a bill on these matters. All of this takes time, and it is important to make such a big effort. We woke up with a bad dream when the various people became big business shopping on earth. At the same time, a number of factors and factors, including the projections, have already been developed. We find out, unfortunately, that a list of property files is not okay, neither the state property file nor the general registration of various land games across the country. It is being done to fix it. It even looks like it. it must be done. It shows that national records feel that they need help because this is a huge project that is important to consider in providing funds. It's in progress at the Ministry of Presidency under the merits I've just mentioned, i.e. The law is being prepared on land property in Iceland, sales and so on. I'm here celebrating this case about a ground-to-earth operation program. I've talked about it a lot myself, and I've been asking about a few things that lie to these matters. The reply or failure of the day revealed that they needed registration of both the property of the State, unfortunately, and other land mines. Now we're responding when left-green is in the government. I'm pointing out what. It belongs to a senator because he spoke a lot about it. It should not be surprising that most countries set aside laws and rules that limit business to property, especially agriculture. The rules include the rules. to ensure that, in some way, the government has a government control over land trade and a vision of possession of it. A great deal of emphasis on maintaining possession of land and resources in public, and for this, we have left greens, but governments in which the exclusive rights of the country are held are many of them aware of the importance of keeping land in the hands of their citizens. Increased awareness of the interaction between land ownership and resource rights has led countries with significant loss of land ownership beyond those of the landstones, some of which now forbid foreign sale. I stress that they forbid it, but we haven't specifically asked for it. Other countries focus on clear limits and limitations in these areas, and in some cases, land sales are being tried to unwind. Of course, such discussions involve the issues of politics associated with the influence of rich people, whether foreign or Icelandic. In this, there are international and foreign circles, including Through possession of land and resources. In itself, you look at a certain tax area in what has happened in Iceland, i.e. buying parties like Ratcliffes from the east. That's it. Internationally speaking, we can see the value of land and land in possession. Away from the rest of the available resources, we can see to it that a good agricultural and agricultural land has become increasingly scarce in the world. As a result, the value is growing, and it becomes much more valuable. We can also make sure that when it comes to the water resource, it is not quite strong enough. Our regulations define groundwater and drinking water as part of the land, but it is shortsighted to think that it is a minor matter or a question of the will of the land's owners can offer. That's not enough. Unfortunately, we don't have a whole set of legislation that covers all water, surface water as well as groundwater, which transforms policy into these chemicals, but we all know, and I think we can claim that water is one of the most important interests for future generations both here and abroad. This can be drawn to conclusions when people come out of the world and want to gather on a paradise earth. Not only do they want salmon fish, they want water as well. That's at least I think it's dangerous. It's shown in the bill, and I think it's important in view of what was said at the time. The official of the case, that it is considered proper to consider whether or not the law should be stated that when the landlords are more than three, a union with an attorney needs to be established. I think it's very important that someone has real authority to do something. We saw a lot of trouble with holdings around the glacier, the building of travel services. When there are many owners and some are not found, and there are even conflicts within the family, there must be something close to it. We cannot allow wood, mountainbeds, and anything to wait for when people don't contribute to large areas of the earth, whether it is operating or not. I can think of a lot on the subject of this nature, and I get really upset over the events that have happened. It is very strong here, and it is always important to be careful not to cut down the right farms to stop farming or to start farming if it is to be divided. I believe we should be able to prevent such an act from occurring if we keep up - to - date with this matter. Other things with regard to the public rights and this by ensuring some of the access of people to property, i.e. On the surface of the natural spheres, wide and so forth, it is that we do not watch this purchase to be so vast that people will simply be forbidden or that they will not be able to do so badly in the country without any trouble. As was often meant for me to speak very briefly, but that is the time for the talk. I like it, and there's good input to the discussion and work that the Ministry is doing, the Department of Transport and Division, the Marine and Agriculture Department, and the Presidency Department that's holding the matter. The government's rights are coming to the Ministry of Economics, and I know we're about to get an emergency on these topics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u64	A respectable president. I'm just going to put some words into this important matter. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's experience and her work for this matter. I'm not going to take a long talk, but I'd like to introduce why this is being done and try to get it done in a simple way. It refers not only to foreign wealth but also to the gathering of Icelanders in the same detail. Most of us here know what the situation is in the rural area, and we do not have to travel far from the capital area to get into a beautiful valley that runs a brand-new salmon river. However, since many towns had the light on, only one light or two may survive. It remains that human society in which the problems are, as we have seen, that not next up to ground officials, people do not participate in the common things that walk and happen in the countryside, they do not keep fences, and they do not ride in the countryside a fat horse from the beat of these people because they do not give much back to society. That's a long way to count. The Qualification Plan is suggested at the 6th Council to set up a loan fund because of land purchases. We transporters believe that it is very important for those interested in making a living to be able to buy land and start farming. Today, it is almost impossible for the ordinary man Pétur and Páll and Sigga to go that way. We have to look at things in a different way, and as already noted, a graffiti would be assigned to appoint a certain loan class, where only a loan would be lent to a home, i.e. to buy on land. We keep property out of it. We can even see that the loans would be given for many decades and that the owners of the money that borrowed for these purposes could be seen to the fact that the payment paid by the person who made it would be in the form of the interest needed to pay off the appropriate head seat, while the head seat in itself would not be paid down. We here speak of a graffiti as a lender and that the State even shared in this project. More than anything else, America keeps its value. We all know that people can borrow money to buy cars up to eight years, but once you put the key in the Swiss and start running, it will fall at approximately 15%, just on the first 100 yards. A country, however, is preserved. Today, people borrow at funerals until the end of the day, and if we put this in touch with a car purchase, a respectable president, it's a pretty rough picture. If we're going to keep the lights on, we're going to have life there, there's one way I think very wisely, that new candidates get such loans. Understandably, there have been demands on soil purchases and other things and to believe that the right of property will be placed in the table. In its history, an authority made a good impression that in this Senate arrangement, he is seen to be respected. It is only natural and understandable that as a nation, we look to the way we handle the resource. We also need to look to the future and wonder how we want to see things. I put notes on paper, more for fun but perhaps also to enrich the discussion, and e.g. ask yourself, " What is this in Greenland? ' The people own it, and I find it a very reasonable way for them to have all the resources. I also realize, though, that getting there might be a bit difficult to get there. If we looked ahead for some 50 years or so, and the changes I've made in the past through this loan from land to land, we could just look at it with a certain pair of glasses that the people had the resource called land. I think it is a very good investment for the nation to have their resources, to take the initiative, but not that of capitalism, as we say. This suggestion also shows that there are many kinds of soil and soils that need to be limited but that they are looked to and not limited to modern farming, which calls for man to use a number of soils. I know it pretty well myself. The most important point of all of this is to maintain our supply of food and that the resource is in the hands of the people of this country. That's the biggest thing. I think this council mishap proposal is a really good step in that direction. I hope that as many people go to the trouble of putting this matter forward. Since both the left green and the advance have contributed for two years, there must be an interest in the case in the administrative home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u65	A respectable president. I would like to thank you very much for the discussion of this council resolution of a Earth Action Programme. The purpose of the plan was very well described when it came to keeping the lights on all over the country. It includes the public interest, that we use opportunities to create employment and value throughout the country for all the inhabitants and the smaller rural communities. I would also like to reiterate that this arrangement is intended to add and deliver the tasks needed in addition to the work being carried out by the Ministry of Prime Ministers, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, and other measures immediately. There is no doubt that there is some overlap between these tasks, and that is just what is so important. I'm stressing that it's an overlap. Therefore, it is important to have an action plan because there is no one project to be done at one government agency that can improve the management of land and land management. I'd also like to better establish a few aspects of the 7th Action Programme on the importance of reviewing various laws other than those that have been most discussed in the global discussion of the last year. One is what should be the purpose of the Kingdom's ownership on earth. The work of the owner's policy on government markets has been somewhat clear, but it needs to be explained more clearly by the law and discussed at the General Assembly. What kind of land should the State have? Is it supposed to be agricultural land? A country of water rights or any other delights? Or should it be a country that is protected from any use or use? The legal requirements for government sales need to be revised to the current candidates, including in view of changes in land use and farming practices. On earth, where small settlements may have existed before, and so little livestock farms, the inhabitants are often taking jobs to nearby settlements, but they want to live on earth now owned by the State, but according to the law, it is impossible for them to buy them. Thus, it is easier for outsiders to buy such an earth than those who truly want to live on it and to build on it even something new, cultivate a forest, or enjoy less livestock. But these are ground, which can never live up to the size of farm, which is the basis for farming to be a primary occupation. Since then, there has only been an arrangement of preparatory work and responsibilities, and I wanted to add it a little bit. It is always important, whether one or more owners of the earth, that at all times governments and neighbors can reach the owner of a country or sponsors for social projects, infrastructure, or organizational work, to name something. Advocators are to be authorized to represent other owners of the land in a solution to rights and related owners, making decisions on daily business, interest care, and other important measures. Therefore, I and we transporters feel that it is not necessary to consider whether a captain of the country was living in the country where the earth is. Without permission on earth, it would be easier to apply it after the existence of a captain. Then I want to reiterate that the proposal assumes that as soon as it is approved at Congress, all of the projects listed there will be under way and then at the beginning of 2021, it is not very long in 2021, it would be explained to the progress of the programme. Then all the actions should be well worked out. There may be a long time before we can continue talking about land and land, but I'm going to stop here and continue with a later issue. ... aboutit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u66	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of resources and resource costs. First, I'd like to mention that on June 20, last summer, an approved Parliamentary proposal signed for October 19, 2018. In my mind and many others, it is a great joy that this council proposal finally came to pass, I would like to say, but it was recommended before four legislatures. The main element of the proposal was to hide the environmental and resource ministers from the resource rights, the environmental rights and the environmental rights to create a bill to define what can be assigned to national resources and what Iceland's resources are. A recent legal science in the United States, which is closely related to environmental rights, has been used by the European Court of Auditors. In accordance with the nature of the problem, the resource rights apply to the rights for the management, use and management of resources. A healthy policy on resource use has not been developed to a significant extent here. One factor that contributes to responsible environmental behavior is that natural resources and the right to use them have merits, although in some cases it may be difficult to consider them to be valuable. The proposal adopted for the summer that deals with the definition of resources is in the process of the Environment Minister and is expected to be a bill from him on that matter during this council of 150th. Why do I come forward with this? Yes, because the proposal I now recommend resources and resource expenditures is actually a direct continuation of that synonym. The suggestion is this: The General concluded to hide finance and economic ministers in order to appoint a team of workers as: 1st gives recommendations on whether to collect resource use fees and what resources to use, 2. Suggest a procedure for the stress of resource costs that could cover all resources and account for the costs and defects of different methods, 3. sum up information on how resource use will be used in neighboring countries. The Outfit shall render the Minister no later than May 1st, 2020 A report says: This proposal was submitted to the 149th legislature and referred to the Economic and Business Committee, which sent the case for review. The proposal was previously submitted to a Council of 146, 147, and a legislature. This proposal suggests that financial and economic secretarys hide the group of workers to see if the resource use fees should be collected and of the resources to be used. The work force is also suggested to propose a procedure for the pressures of resource costs and to account for the costs and defects of different methods. This will take together information on how to obtain currency in neighboring countries, especially in the North countries. Transporters believe properly that financial and economic ministers will be assigned to appoint the group, since there is not already a source of resources available, and they can fall to more than one department and institutions. At the same time, the issue is extensive and urgent as well as it has been discussed for years, so it is reasonable that financial and economic ministers govern the work. It has long been hoped that the resources of the country will bring financial gain in one way or another. Over the years, government companies have paid interest in government funds, and it is sufficient to mention land activation. Resources commonly referred to as the resources of the ◯ nation can be of various means, i.e. resources in the sea, in the air, or on land. It is known that the fishing fee in the fishing trade is under the rules and that despite debate on the level of the fishing fee, there is some agreement on its stress. Transporters do not believe that resource costs are imposed on just one sector. Therefore, it is important to develop a more comprehensive policy. The use of resources will have an impact on the environment and need to ensure that resources are used in a reasonable and profitable way. Transporters also want to remind you that the concept of a stable fund has been developed that sets up the Norwegian oil fund, where money from money from government prices would all or part be cast into such funds. In June 1998, a richest committee, which was found at the General Assembly, wrote an opinion for the Ministry of Presidency, published in 2000. Part of its work was to deal with charge of resources for their research and to promote their protection and sustainable use, as well as to ensure that the yield of common resources would be legitimate for those interested in them. The Commission concluded that it believed that the payment of the use of natural resources is supported by the following evidence: first, to account for the costs of public analysis and monitoring of resource use, secondly, to ensure the visible share of the over-the-country in creating resources and third-lined tax reforms (called green taxes) to ensure the practical use of the resources. The resources specified by the Committee in its opinion were energy sources in Iceland and resources at or below the seabed, hydropower, geity and mines, electromagnetic pulses for communications and other environmental quality. The people in this matter, besides what it says, are confused. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishund, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and the Þorsteinn son of Sæmundsson. After this discussion, I suggest that this case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u67	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a proposal for interpretation of resources and resource expenditures that go to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers will be assigned to appoint a group of workers who provide proposals for the use of resources, provide a proposal for the pressures of resource resources that could function for all resources, and eventually that the staff will collect information about these resources in neighboring countries. The Outfit is due to a Minister's proposal for May 1st, 2020. I thank you for your transfer, my ass. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður for putting up this important issue, but I am his associate in the case with seven others. Councilmen. It is here that my people know of a very important matter, and there is little more urgent in the near future than to make suggestions on how we as a nation are going to preserve our resources and how and whether they will be paid for their use. This is not a simple subject at all. Our resources are becoming ever more precious, and the more urgent it is to make plans to make sure that they receive fruit from them. According to one estimate, the nation's resources cannot be counted out as exhaustive, so the frequency changes rapidly. In the past, it was simple, till the ground was finished, and it would fetch the water and drink it, but today it can be said that much has been added. It is in the sea, in the sky, and in the land; and the fish in the sea, and all the resources that come out; the birds of the sky, and the air, and the land, or the earth. Then it is our energy, the most important resource along with the fishing resource, and how to use the falling lakes, but it is constantly added. It's in the earth's heat. Not long ago, people began to drill much deeper. They are the high - temperature regions, they are the resources, the tides, the waves, the wind, the wind, our pure water, which becomes ever more precious, Mr. President, and we must walk better through the land to preserve exactly the water source. We can't waste all the time. We can't waste all the time. Technology has become more perfect, so we need to do so. Waste should be disposed of as much environmentally as possible. In the future, our pure water can become one of our most important resources, and we must preserve it. We cannot walk through the land like no one comes after us. The natural beauty of our country is one of our resources, but underneath it, there are a number of categories, such as. unsightly vision, purity, even the resource of having nature that is essentially free of mass. But there is also a resource that knows that I can enjoy the darkness of the night, e.g. to view night skyscrapers in peace for lights. Maybe it's a resource that goes in a hurry. Finally, we may not be able to capture our clean air, since it comes from all over the world. Many of these resources overlap to a large extent. I'm pointing out, Mr. President, that many of them overlap, e.g. the wind power and the view. If we use the wind, we will at the same time weaken our view of natural beauty. It is by no means simple how we will use our resources in the future and whether it is possible or not and where the limit is. It is important that these groups take up the work and offer suggestions, consider how this is being done in other countries, and offer suggestions on whether the nation can take more resources from more resources than the fishing resource. I welcome this proposal and suggest that it be accepted and appointed by the staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u68	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize small loan companies. Transporters are members of the United States Congress, but 1st he has a problem with transport. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir. Since Oddný could not have been here today, it took me to recommend the case. This case was previously presented in 149, a legislature, but it did not succeed. Well, that's a little different now. The so - called small loan companies began operating here at the beginning of 2010. The loan of a small loan is a short - term loan, and a borrower wishes to pay the loan on the loan site or by sending text messages from a cell phone. The small loan companies have been criticized from the start because of both loan costs and loan marketing. One of the main differences between the small loans and the traditional uppers in the general banking system is that small loans are only given for a very short period of time, from one day to just over a month. Much discussion has been made in our country and neighboring countries about the damages of these loans. Both consumer market stakeholders and consumer organisations have expressed concern about the availability of small loans in the country as well as on loans, up to 648% annual rates of costs, which are marketed particularly for young people whose legs are down and those with little between hands. The small loans are under law on consumer loans, and the consumer lab has repeatedly had to intervene as a result of the small loans done on the basis of their laws and the application of government fines. These measures have not been successful. It seems that small loan companies are seeking to go past legal requirements on consumer loans for what is considered to be a annual rate of cost. There are no laws on the subject itself; there is no need to apply for a work permit or meet specific organizational requirements. This bill suggests that the activities of small loan companies will be established by setting a special law on the operation where there will be a clear box and ensure that only persons can obtain licenses that meet certain conditions and work on the basis of a consumer loan legislation for annual rates of costs. At the 139th legislature Council, the Secretary of Economic and Business proposed a bill for changing consumer loans law, No. 121/194, but the bill did not succeed. The main purpose of this bill was to turn the interest of small loans on the cover and frame of consumer legislation to ensure the protection of consumers. A new network to legalize consumer loans turned into law No. 33/2013, about a consumer loan. In that bill it was decided to lend a small loan to consumer loan legislation, which legislation is the implementation of the EU Directive 2008/48/EC for consumer loans. When the EU decree was implemented, there were some discussions about these issues in the community. The legislators responded by extending a range of laws on consumer loans to cover small loans and also set specific regulations for the maximum annual rate of cost at 26. Law on consumer loans. This is a law that goes beyond the directive's requirements and was particularly directed to small loans. According to the bill's report, our far - reaching countries have been moved to respond to the rise of small loan companies with an increase in order to protect consumers. In this context, it is important to note that about half of the 27 EU Member States have laws on peak growth. Finns have provided a prime bill for maximum interest in small loans, and Danes have announced that they intend to do the same. In North America, the same story is true; Canada has set 60% peaks per year of cost, and in 35 U.S. countries there have been rules for small loans that take on various conditions, such as interest and pay... Following a sentence on consumer loan in 2013, small loan companies began to invent ways to avoid the above 26. Law on consumer loans, first with a so-called fast charge, i.e. a person's paying a special amount of money for his loan to be done immediately, or it would take five to seven days. That was the case with the city of Reykjavík, which concluded that it was illegal to allow such a price to be avoided in calculating the annual rate of cost. Following that, small loan companies presented a new price, which, in turn, was presented with loans to borrow electronic books and was subsequently authorized to borrow. A consumer agency has established government fines to a small loan company because of this arrangement. It is important to believe that small loans are also employed by consumer loans and are within the framework set by such companies by the 2013 consumer loan. Monitoring partners have not had to make any comments or take action on the activities of these enterprises. In a memo published by the head of a debt agent, dated February 28, 2018, which received a financial and business committee, you can find an analysis of small loans from the candidates for the release of a credit agent. It shows that in the last two years, the number of people who have applied for financial resources due to financial problems has increased. The total number of applications in 2015 totaled 1,157, 2016 in total, with a total of 1,401 in 2017. When surveying applications in 2016 and 2017, it is found that more than half of those applying for counselling and adaptation during these two years are under 40 years of age. In this case, the most pronounced increase in remuneration candidates is from 14.9% to 23.3 % in the two years age groups. An agent's analysis also shows that the ratio of candidates who took small loans went e.g. from 13% in 2013 to 43% in 2017, these numbers are based on all counseling applications and adaptation applications. In comparison, the ratio of candidates who took a mortgage from 32% in 2015 to 17% in 2017. In the 183/429 years old age group, 76 of 109 candidates in 2017 have borrowed a small loan of about 70%, but in 2016 39 out of 63 or 62% had taken a small loan. The share of the total debt of small loans increased from 13% to 20% from 2016 to 2017. The average interest rate of small loans from candidates at the agent's office was less than 600 you. K. In 2017, there are over 400 of you. K. in 2016. Clearly, then, small loans are becoming more common and increasingly larger in this group's problems. Mr. President. The bill is divided into six chapters and I'm here to review its major components. In section I of the bill, a range of values is discussed and the activities of small loans on the land are specifically defined. It is suggested that unless such a contract led to a inferior position for a businessman, it be forbidden to compromise the law's terms with a contract. To achieve the goal of the bill, it is important to ensure that businessmen cannot conform to its standards. Finally, the legislation on the activities of small loan companies is suggested not to include loans under financial law. In the understanding of this article, credit institutions consider the financial companies to be those who have been authorized by the law on finance. Il. section of the bill discusses work permits, applications and their services. It is suggested that the work of small loan companies will be undertaken as a Marketing Authorisation and non-employers will be prohibited from presenting, offering, or paying small loans. Then small loan companies will not be permitted to start a operation until a work permit is granted. The head of the budget is appointed to oversee applications and activities. It is permitted to refuse a job permit if a license application does not meet the conditions of the law, as reported by the FEC. Synthesis should be reasoned and reported within three months of application receipt. Finally, it is suggested that the SEC is authorized to cancel the work permit of a large loan company or, in part, to consider that the enterprise has not worked under normal and normal financial practices and practices, or to violate these laws in another way. Then the bill states that individual and legislators live in EU Member States and EFTA can be the founder of a small loan company. Also, small loan companies should work as part-of-a-part company and are proposed to require that the subsidies of a small loan company be at least one million euro, but it is important that only be brought into this lender market by hand. The bill suggests that the activities of small loan companies value laws on telecommunications in financial services and the laws on consumer loans, as these legislation on the activities of small loan companies is not different. It is emphasized that small loan companies work together according to normal and healthy financial practices and practices and are assigned to set rules on what is considered to be normal and healthy procedures according to these laws. The bill also suggests that clients make a payment assessment before borrowing and the results of a pay assessment are recorded. Also listed are the five counts where borrowing is not permitted for a businessman. That would be, for example. Refuse to pay off loans earlier than 48 hours after the approval of a loan application. It is also suggested that all applications for small loans in the office interval between hours. 9 and 17 working days. In the end, small loan companies are required to hold on to job guarantees because of damages that could result from an inadvertent loss in their jobs. They seek to arrange the system to make it more difficult for people to take a loan without having thought about it well, to think of a loan process to the end, and to study interest and credit terms. It is then suggested that small loan companies be monitored by these laws, if the bill is legal, and XIII. the Act on financial companies and the law on official financial control. The FESI will be assigned to supervise the surveillance program according to the bill. To deliver a flow of surveillance, it is suggested that small loan companies who have been authorized pay annual follow-up fees in accordance with the laws on the payment of costs for public management of financial services. It is also suggested that the subsidiary of the bill will have a pattern similar to that of other financial legislations with the sources of UNECE to use government fines as well as traditional legal requirements. It is suggested that a new paragraph be added in Article 5. legislation on the payment of costs for official control of financial activities required at around 600,000 dollars. It's a check fee paid by the small loan companies. Finally, in a provisional arrangement, the small loan companies working here at the level of these laws should take immediate action to meet the requirements of the law and no later than three months from their implementation. It is clear, therefore, that these laws, if the bill is legally the law, are intended to reach all small loan companies and not just those founded after the execution of the law. Mr. President. Finally, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Will the son of Sigurðsson for his history and claim that I support this case. I have personally discussed the small loans of this Assembly Hall and, in fact, beyond, special discussions, and other matters. I think this evil is what we need to try to prevent by any means necessary. This case may be one of the factors involved. I know it's the highest. Ministers of Þórdís Reykfjörð, The Smoke of Gylfadóttir, have a case that appeals to consumer law, which, in fact, comes. into the small loans, especially. This is one of her first issues. But I've been worried that we have to change something else, including... Summaries, and we intend to respond by presenting a matter in their case. From the beginning of the work of so - called small loan companies in the country, around 2010, their loans have resulted in the cause of discussions here and elsewhere. The credit laws of small loan companies are considered to be unscrupulous examples of yokes, and many in their practices seem to show wrongdoing and even pretence, as in the case of the law, covering superheated interest charges with tokens on an electronic book. It is also a matter of many that small loans are directed to community groups that live with the lax economy and young people who consume, to those who are struggling. Information from the office of the credit agent confirms this and makes it clear that it is especially young people, those who have taken money, those who have taken the small loans, that they have legal problems, and that they are forced to consult the government to solve their problems. The work such as this is to lend short - term money with huge interest. Thus, each year's interest in name can be studied by hundreds of percent, as we have heard news broadcasts. In accordance with local laws, such growth is illegal, but it is so often managed by calling it a loan cost and a number of other capitalizings to increase the payment of loans beyond what is permitted. The small loan companies are nothing more than part of the global changes we see in financial markets, including the U.S. by means of the brilliant devices, digital solutions - the new financial technology, e.g. FinTech, develops rapidly and in some cases, as we have found, faster than the existing legislation. I conclude that this is exactly the case in the country, that the lawgiver has not achieved enough of the changes in this area. One of the things I've said very often is that the biggest mail from a credit agent is, or at least During the time, the small loans, and the people in their problems were funded loan companies, not the business of the agent in debt. Other financial companies and credit companies, camp loan funds, pension and insurance companies, are streaming to the costs of this office, not the small loan companies. It must be unnatural if you're borrowing something else. That's why I agree that the small loan companies will submit to all their laws if we want them in our community. I don't want it. I've been saying it a lot. I want to do everything we can to shut them down. Otherwise, I agree that we must set them a very narrow frame. The consumer organizations have been extremely diligent and have kept to the fore the direct criticism of small loan companies because of their business practices. I remember that in 2016, the Neytors Lab fines made fines for three small loan companies because of illicit loan costs, and the consumer shop also laid 10 million. K. A management ticket to the small loan company E-cotent, as well as a day's fine, because the company did not comply with proposals to change the practice. These decisions were confirmed by the consumer appeal committee, so we have an accepted problem in our arms. Those who have paid too much interest and even huge interest for illegal loans have very little chance of reimburseing these interests. This is a lawsuit if people are going to try to deal with it, and it is not for those people who are able to face such a lawsuit. One thing that needs to be done is that the ministry combines all - or those involved. There's not just one thing in my opinion, there's more in the law that needs to be changed, which needs to be dealt with. That's why it's spreads to a lot of departments. The report given on a small loan company included: Refer to Finland and there's a bill on consumer loans, which include some of them. it is said that consumers are not obliged to pay interest or other costs of loans beyond the annual rate of cost or legal peak. Under it we must be willing to take, but unfortunately, we have not been able to place roofs on the annual rate of cost because we have a problem stopping it if there's always some way we can get around it. We also need to try to prevent a trial course, as we heard in a recent coverage, that if a borrower does not insist on the illegal part, he or she will not respond properly. I agree, as I said before, that if the conclusion is that we don't want to shut these companies down, they'll both be authorized and registered. It is also important that we know who is behind these enterprises, the transpiration of countries. It's been shown, and it's even. The reason for this growth was that small loan companies were joined by a collected company ready to collect these loans. It's owned by one lawyer and it's got a large fracturer in the system. Economic Affairs does not monitor lawyers, but they monitor themselves, i.e. Iceland's police club is investigating lawyers. You can't really say that when a company breaks down, it's realistic that Iceland's law firm is equipped to deal with it. Nothing can do. They may be guilty, but they can't charge or anything like that. It's a serious offense that's going to happen. The consumer organisation tried to bring a case on behalf of several creditors to the company controlled by the attorney, but it was actually dismissed because they are not a part of the case. That's where legal technology comes in. Of course, it is unacceptable that such an organization will not be able to represent someone and make a complaint or be taken into consideration. I also think it is important that if people take such loans at any given time, they can get information about how to cut the loans, what the interest costs are, what the loan costs, and other costs, so that they can always be in position if you wish. As I said at the beginning of my speech, people are in different shapes when they borrow like this and so there's nothing unusual about it. But what I may have stated at the outset was specifically concerning the collection laws, and I intend to present a case in their behalf. There is no roof in legal matters, and the cost can be enormous, as we have heard. The low - cost cost is a empire that no one can handle. It is also awkward and sad that those who lend money keep people in a straitjacket and this situation by threatening them to put them on a list. Of course, no one wants to be separated, with the consequences we know. People who come to the bank and want to borrow, whether for housing or for anything, don't have to give up their small loans. It can be 3, 4 or 5 million in tiny loans on your back and shit. It comes into the bank and doesn't have to give up if it's borrowing. It is also very sad because the announcement is not the same. That's one of the big ones. Then, instead of receiving help to pay back the loans, people continue in a cycle of cycles, starting at zero points. I think the only person who really has world information about me and the Icelanders is Creditinfo. People say that Facebook has a lot of information about Iceland and the rest of the world, but Creditinfo has huge information about people. That company has even. This information, and I think it's reason to see if we need to set rules there because it all hangs a little bit. They may prefer to register a legal file. I think it's sobering. The rest is about the banking business. It seems somehow that you pick up a box when you apply online under all kinds of circumstances, in the middle of the night and at all, as shown on this bill; people just turn around, and then, all of a sudden, they bring an eternal debt until the loan is over and the bank says it's done. It is also something that should not be so simple. We know that there's a lot of ways to go along with something in the rest, and there's a lot of money. I could say, without an idea of it, that 95%, so I don't get rougher, I don't read terms, all sorts of terms, whether it's on community media, when you're accepting something, or when you're taking a loan in the environment like this. Hence, we need to examine the responsibility of those involved, not just someone else. It's pointing to each other. I agree with what the Neythal Association has suggested, that chain responsibility be set up in debt. I think it's important, and in order to have a bigger responsibility, that collectrs, brokers, financial institutions, everyone's pointing not one another out, but that's everyone's mutual responsibility. The marketing is so aggressive. The text only comes, it's Secret Sockice or Christmas, or whatever it is that's up ahead of us. Then there's something that's pushing it. There's an event, and you're invited to take a small loan - come on. There's a lot I could keep talking about and that we have to deal with. I also want there to be one place where people can look for solutions, that people aren't always being led away from one place to another to know what the situation is. I think it's very important in all of this. A respectable president. Now's the time. There is no proper statistical information on the scope of the language, but that is one of the things we need to create.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Sigurðsson for his history in this essential matter, to the point of permanence. I agree with almost every word. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen said. Now we've just introduced a social protection law that makes it impossible for me to know what my husband's name is unless he prescribes a warrant for it. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen correctly points out that we are for some reason with a company called Creditinfo who has an exception to everything we call personal protection. If I take 20,000 bucks. Small loans are made out of enormous interest. A senator mentions, not just hundreds of percent, but thousands of percent, with interest to thousands of percent, as I have repeatedly seen in people who have called me crying. The fact is, there must be something fantastic. We have good faith in our bank, thinking that our account is just ours, not our small loan company, or Creditinfo or anyone else. We're supposed to be protected by what we own and what we have. In some of the terms, we borrow: I agree. I agree with everything. I always point to what. paritaprevir Olsen's bellows because she's the only one who's talked about this precisely, that the longest part of those who pick up doesn't read 170 pages of the tiny letters on the terms they're signing up. There I exaggerated the number of pages, for when you see this pile of little type of paper about what you're going to accept or not, you're going to fall into the fire. In fact, there is also reason for us to take special advantage of the group of people who are using small loans. Who would that be? Is that what they are? Payers for the small loan over their heads? No, I guess not. If they were citykeepers, they'd go to the bank, right? Here we have three business banks. There is no problem with borrowing, getting a little money, or overgrading if you're a valued citizen of it. They're young people, they're poor people, people in trouble, they're addicts. These are the people who have the worst in society. It's the ones who end up under the heels of the small loan companies, and I'm totally against this operation. Although the high Council was talking about agreeing that there would be no more than 50% interest in my life, I never heard anything like that, that we're going to accept 50% interest. It's a yoke. In the old days, prisons were put on the smaller power with yokes. Fifty percent interest? Although it may be 3,500 percent less than they jumped in years before and got away with it, it doesn't change the fact that I think it's quite cloudy and in a black zone. The people's party is totally against these little loans. There's got to be things better and different if we're ever going to agree with this, especially when we all know what we are here -- we're actually very few in here right now -- that the centre of those who've got their feet standing and not getting any other money. It is quite remarkable that we should not be able to interfere with the bank accounts of individuals with small loans and with credit bills, with interest and so on, with such factors as this hungry percentage. Where are we when the lawgiver sees this? Even if we are sick, we might try to scratch this thing. I say, "It's better if it's enough. " The best of everything would be to say, "Here, no more! Stop! Out with this little loan! We can, for example. Start by viewing the picture as a whole. We can first build the foundation for our society as we would like to see it. We can first stop taxing poverty. We can start by eliminating it and stopping our people from being so bad. We can also start an early intervention and help people who are dependent on addiction and stop letting 600,700 people stay on the wait list for Vogi's help. When taken together who is caught in this trap, it is the people who are most troubled in society, as I said earlier. It's our job to help them. It's just another story, so I'm from one another like I'm the one with no blade and no nothing, being a 16, 17 or an 18-year-old teenager, and getting text messages that say, "Do you need a loan? You want a little loan? You'll have it in 15 minutes. Just say yes. Check it out. Just accept what and we'll put you on it. You don't have a map? Let's put this on you. Is that how we want to see our community? No, not at all. It is ours, the Lawgiver, to prevent these activities from being allowed to exist here, this operation in which the fish is in very cloudy water. I must say, I agree with the consumer groups who are actively fighting this, who have already drawn out a number of things we cannot talk about here and now, which I hope will come up on the surface, draw out not only support but also show how these little loans and loan companies are prepared. People's party still says, "This is it, that's it! Stop! Get those little loan companies out of here, get them out of here! Rather, may we help those who are in trouble and are in great trouble that they see no alternative but to be oppressed and tortured by their yokes and filth, as these companies do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for putting in this bill, I support it wholeheartedly, and I want to agree with it. paritaprevir Sæland Gaand that all the members of the people like him support this case. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Less than 30 years ago, when I was working at Brudge's store in Laura, I think of a police operation at Kjörður, the offer of yoke fruits that were so illegal and scandalous that it took a police operation to close that operation. What was being invited there? I think it was 50% interest. It says there can be up to 50% interest plus control interest. I'd say they're yoke fruits. Just that one thing should be enough to ring all the alarm bells and stop this nonsense because I say to my part: Nobody needs 54% interest. Another thing I've read about, and I don't know what to say is that you can take 10,000 bucks. A loan for 30 days, that's when you're paying a $33.14% interest. If you take a loan for 15 days, you're paying $35,000. Let's put this in context, how the imagination is. What makes me absolutely speechless is that the loan can be collected without anyone stopping it, not just a military operation, but a military operation, to stop it. I can't understand how in the world this can deal with and be legal. It should be excluded. Also, it is possible for the bank accounts and credit cards to be taken out by a single line. It's like taking your hands into the person's purse and getting money without asking anything. That's weird. I advise those who are struggling with small loan companies to access the Navigator Association's Web site, where there's information on what people can do. It's even more odd in all of this, because you think it's illegal from A to O, that people can be put on a credit record. You're kind of gonna stop your mouth. It's far apart from me that things have not been arranged so long ago that this bill hadn't had to be done, it would've been arranged that these things weren't going on. I hope that the bill will be accepted, and it will do enough to stop it. Then we can be free of the mess these little loan companies are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u72	Mr. President. This discussion need not be greatly added. These little loan companies are a social ill, not just in this country, but a lot more. It's all right to keep it up that when you have a 5% interest, you make it double in 20 years, but if you have 20% interest, it's doubled in five years. It is worth it for us to discuss in a larger context in the community whether the interest is so high. In many parts of the world through history, wisdom has been completely forbidden. I don't think anyone would agree with that today, but it hasn't been done without reason. Discussion of growth in general in the community must take into account that this is always a type of yoke.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u73	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a hearing of the establishment of the technical director of the state. This proposal was previously proposed to a Council of 146, 149, and is now reassigned. The objective is to establish a special office of the government technical director who supervises the technical infrastructure and institutions of the State so that they can be taken in and built. bring up high-tech knowledge within the Agency and reduce government expenses by size. In recent years, the tiny computerization of the management system has led most government institutions to develop a variety of specialized software systems in order to do their job better. Underdeveloped software is in very different shapes, but some cases have been lacking, as well as other software is developing in continuous development. The software is developed on different programming issues and in different collections, some of which are significantly obsolete and the manufacturer's maintenance has in some cases been discontinued. It is common for software to know a safety problem that has not been corrected, and no doubt there are many unknown defects, such as in all software. Almost none of the software has a quality manual, automatic testing, or fixation plan for known defects. Various government institutions have recognized this problem and have endeavored to correct it in various ways, but the developed institutions have little opportunity for developing software, and this is never their place. At such times, projects are often offered, but contractors tend to have a higher labour contract, for although governments know well what specific problems they are going to solve, there is seldom enough knowledge in the house to ensure good technical results. Larger software systems are usually maintained under contract, but cases of smaller systems are rarely or never updated. At the 149th legislature, written inquirys were sent to the relevant Minister for several larger and better known software systems in use by state institutions or recruitment agencies. The questions turned to various aspects of the author's identity, authentication method and cost and whether the software had been published by free access. Not all queries were received, but as indicated in the motion, this form is defined. In cases where the author's count has remained in the company rather than moving to the relevant organisation, there is usually a larger task. I'm not going to go through all this stuff right here and now, just to mention that there seems to be also some misunderstanding about where the goal is, you know, opening software code. The Bible, including the book The Bible, contains a number of references to God's Word. that the U.S. Marshal's LLE system is not open for safety, but everyone who has worked on a software security problem knows that the code is not a fail-safe, but you must always assume that the enemy, the potential attacker, knows the code and in and the system must be built on other factors. The goal of opening code is especially to benefit from the cooperation that can develop when people in the community see a fault that can be corrected. Basically, the suggestion is that some sort of organization and solutions to these problems will be created. Similar institutions have been performed, e.g. In Britain and the United States, the proposal is partly based on their experience. The objective of this procedure is to achieve substantial saving, additional safety and effectiveness. It will also be possible for a variety of government software systems to have a common open operating collection, common interface standards, etc. I'm just going to say at the end, since the time goes by quickly tonight, the Icelandic state was once very early on software. We were very prominent in information technology, but that time has passed. We have been considerably reduced, partly due to the collapse and partly lack of interest within the system, and it is very embarrassing, Mr. President, that we lose this position, as powerful a knowledge community as we are. I've had many conversations with people, both in the board and in the community, in recent years, and everyone agrees that we can achieve very little effort if these factors are handled well. This motion does not fall from the sky. It's based on people's experience. Mr. President, I've had the problem that at the Ministry of Economics, we're working on some of these processes to improve, and then this proposal has a good look at it as a guide. Finally, there is nothing else in this situation than simply suggesting that this agreement will go on to the Economic and Business Committee, to the future. and will finally be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the history of this interesting proposal. I'd like to mention one member of an electronic administration and this potential new agency, sometimes forgotten in the discussion, when talking about the public data system and electronic administration over the head, for example. not to be found in the proposed report, but this is the preservation of the Commission data, which says the endpoint on this. It is very important to consider the immediate preservation of the environment so that it is easy and easy to take electronic data to maintain it according to the rules it applies at any given time. For example, over a decade ago the National Library of Iceland's research projects with two government institutions were used to preserve electronic data from two sources of data. It was a very interesting learning process for National Archives and institutions. In the second case, e.g. adapting the data system to preserve the data. It was a data system created by the Agency itself, and it was likely a small amount of money. I think this is the situation of a lot of government officials. You can see that an institution that coordinates and harmonises the process and structure of the state's data creatures can set these issues into a better way. There are, for example. that the National Archives has received only a report of 12◯18% of all the national data systems, as determined by the curative review of the collection. It says that's about that. The total number of data delivered in the Member State's population is nominal. Such notifications are needed for the museum to determine the long term guard details. Like what? A senator is likely aware of running the Council's Management Board in the stuff that has to do with software and data systems and with such systems within the Iceland Management Board. You wonder whether the projects of a potential new agency, the technical director of the state, and the business were cut or stumbled. Or see what? A senator assumes that the work of the company will be extended to a new agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u75	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. Senator. That's exactly what he's saying. There has been a little discussion about the potential dangers of the digital Middle Ages, that the lack of data can cause society's knowledge of itself to be lost very rapidly. This is something we have to do very well. So it's absolutely accurate that there must be a way of thinking that we know what databases exist and that Iceland's National Archives knows that, as a matter of fact, I worked for my time and probably made one of the databases that we have. A senator mentions. I also know that it is difficult to maintain, especially in institutions that do not necessarily have this particular role. I have tremendous sympathy for the particular example. The senator mentioned, knowing how it all went. Thus, in terms of the business society, a wide variety of things are being taken care of, and in my opinion, the technical focus is not necessarily correct. There is a tendency to buy an animal system in perhaps American companies and even dispossess important information that is involved in national interest, national security and other activities, to companies, perhaps Americans, who have data in storage in the Netherlands or Ireland that may go against our interests. There are a lot of friends that can be seen and far from the fact that there are all the things listed in the suggestion, although, of course, we have tried to include most of the factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. The Senator's answer is, I see that we agree on a lot of things. As we have seen, the report also includes the national electronic data system, which includes information that really concerns all the projects that the State does. There will be no data in the electronic form today, and that's how it works in the administration. The data systems provide nearly everything involved in government operations and services. So how important it is that there is good concern that there is a structure and structure of such systems when it comes to efficiency, information security, and such a long - term patrol, as mentioned earlier. I hope this case has a good and detailed discussion on the Committee, and hopefully it will become a reality and to improve this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u77	Mr. President. The answer ring may have turned around a little. But perhaps that's just fine. This special assignment is mentioned by one of the bodies of elders. At one time, I worked there for a short time, including the National Archives of Iceland. To do the digital jugular book from 1630 or approximately, to put it into electronic form and establish the first numbers from 1703, 1835, and 1845, if I do not forget. These are some of the evidence that is very relevant to society. This is something that many may be interested in searching and learning about the ways things were in the past and how society has developed. We must remember that the Icelandic community has existed for well over 1,000 years, and much of the information that came into existence early in this nation's time has passed, has been lost, will never come again. It may not only be about preserving history but also about preserving the future because if we do not have enough knowledge of our flows now, people in the next century may simply not understand what we were doing here at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-23-8.u78	Mr. President. Yeah, that's the right thing to say. Senator. The sign of the archives is the Roman god Janus. He has two faces, one looks to the past, one to the future. That's what collections and documents are all day thinking about, how we keep the past, but also thinking about the future. To preserve the future, we need to use electronic data to preserve the future. It is actually out of control to want to take electronic data and keep it on paper for a long time because it loses a lot of information. As an employee of the National Library, I know that we are deeply concerned about the state's position in these topics and the preservation of electronic data, and I rejoice that if such an office is established, it may possibly put these matters in a better direction so that we can secure future data. It is not only the history we must preserve but also the rights and benefits of the administration. It is vital that we keep that in mind too.
