ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u1	Borist has a letter from the 12th. South, a Smári Mccarthy, that he can't do any political work in the near future. There has been a letter received by the chairman of the Independence Party for Ásmundur Friðriksson, 4th. South, I can't do any Senate work in the near future. So today, on Monday, February 18, we are taking our place at the General Assembly, which was for the 1st district deputy of Porta, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, and the first deputy of the South American Independence Party list, Konráðsdóttir Konásdodótir. They have previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u2	Borist's letter has been dated February 11th, in the list of Pirata, the South University of Reykjavík, the Snæbjörn Brynjarsson' son of Brigers, in his late session. According to this, the company's defenders down on the list of one place and the 2nd Special Assembly member of the district will be Katla Hólm Þórhildardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u3	Borist has received letters from the following advisers asking for every request to give written answers to queries; from the minister of education and culture for the application of the inquiries. 401, about the date of Iceland's High School on the teeth of candidates for international protection, from Logi Einarsson; from the health minister for the aimy inquiry. 843, about sterilization procedures, from Olga Margrét Cilia; and finally two from foreign minister for the inquiries of the inquiries. 550 for annual reports from Óli Björn Kárason, and on deck. 254, about Icelanders in Britain and Britain's evictions from the European Union, from Steindór Valdimarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u4	The president wants to draw attention to the fact that the non-prepared question period may last longer on Mondays than the Congress assumes that up to six queries will come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u6	Mr. President. At the recent business council, the highest was said. Prime Minister that listening and understanding are the most important things for a leader. She spoke of the only predictable thing in the world today as the unpredictable one, yet she felt that with the formation of this government, political uncertainty in this country was destroyed. Although I would like to discuss more with Prime Minister the political assurances, the values of class policy, and when it is normal and justified in compromising it in the name of the media, I would rather focus on the social uncertainty we have because of the political conservativeity. The general population is now waiting to draw attention to existing weather events. Advertisers have made it clear that a solution will not be achieved unless this government shows the cards. V.E.G. On the other hand, a minister has said that the government's approach is advising a country in a private conversation. In the shadow of the inactivity of the government, there has been an increase in labour markets. In the beginning, responsible government would have provided changes in the tax and housing systems rather than now use them as exchanges in collective agreements. The labor movement has provided suggestions for a multistage tax system, such as the United States and the left green, far off, have spoken of. This is a reasonable way to equalize and improve quality of life. ASI proposes four steps in which 95% of the employees will be better off or during the change than the fourth step would be a high-gravity tax. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how she likes ASI suggestions, but also how long she will allow the shaking to grow before showing the cards. At last, I'm asking if it's the highest. Prime Ministers are found to be more important, political or stable in a job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council, although forced to correct much of what was presented in his case, asked him. I can assure you what. A senator for few governments in recent years and in recent times has taken as much action as with the labour market partners. No one can deny it. Hv. A senator cannot say otherwise. There have already been a series of measures that I have taken with my condition. A senator, whether in charge of unemployed positions, changed the pay program of senior officials, increased child reforms, or changes in tax systems, as well as those who immediately adopted the last few years and those who took effect on the first year of their reign. Hv. A senator comes up and allows himself to talk about the immediate action of a responsible government. We introduced the workforce party to our meeting right away. We've had an amazing conversation with that person. But, of course, when you're trying to reach collective agreements in the long run, it's important - and I noticed that the problem was. A senator said that there are some things I have spoken very clearly about - that people see a country so that governments can act in a practical way that will actually pay to land a fortune in collective agreements and to improve the interests of employees. Hv. A senator specifically asked me about the changes in the tax system. It is not a matter of remuneration that the government has prepared suggestions on tax matters that aim to improve the interests of the most money - rich people in society. It is an enormous interest, a huge lifestyle, such as the proposals of an effort group in housing have been made, such as the recommendations now being made for social subsidies, such as what has already been done for children in the country and what has already been done for the unemployed. [[The president calls.]] I must refer to the lack of action in the north of the country. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u8	Mr. President. Here, members of Congress do not disagree that in the last 101⁄215 years taxes at the lowest wage have increased beyond what they have raised the highest salary. In other words, the recovery system of the tax system is less subtle and poor than it was. We've done a number of researches here on how the growth system is practically ruined, how child - welfare has been reduced, and now it's just poor people or at least Strength in people's lives are serious problems. There's no use to me how often it's the highest. To her credit, the minister has a conversation with the other person in the town, and it is good for her to speak extensively to the labor force. I'm here, however, asking the highest question. The prime minister's attitude is to develop a multi-stage tax system, but not to go any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's second question. There is a great deal that governments can do in cooperation with the labour market and in cooperation with the Generals all the way to improve the terms of the people in this country. I mentioned the housing issues. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree, for I have studied his company's proposals on housing, that it is very important to support the social housing systems. We've talked about social substitution as an object which should not be passed on by a domestic labour market. That's where we're at. A senator agrees. In terms of tax changes, we have already taken certain measures to ensure that different income groups do not get out of tax reforms in different ways, i.e. to harmonise the upper and lower limits of the tax system that were not compatible because one adhered to the pay sheet and the consumer calculator, which meant that high-priority groups were superior in terms of tax changes. This was changed through the last year. I just want to reiterate that I've previously said that the changes we're going to make will increase the equation in the system. They must not cause us to neglect our drinking together because of tax doctors. However, it is very important that all inquisitors are best off the income - bearing groups. The goal should be to contribute to a real biosaturation for those groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u10	Mr. President. My request to the highest. Prime Ministers turn to the government's response to the promotion of the highest government executives and their influence on the current debates. In this context, I would particularly like to consider one such rise, an increase in the bank manager's salary of 82%, from 3.25 million. K. every month up to 3.8 million. A.k., April last year. At first, I want to call attention to words that are highest. A social and child minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason had an open meeting at Hella last week. He said that the money of the executive executives is bullshit and out of control. He also said that banks have to show community responsibility. V.E.G. Social Ministry later said on Facebook, with the permission of the president: ▪ These lasting increases in the management of government companies are intolerable. The head of the state is to raise pay at the same time as others are warned of due to collective agreements. The government banking and the National Bank Board must show by their work that they can be trusted to manage companies in public interest. If not, governments must intervene in legal adjustments. To be honest, my patience is getting a little fraught with this confusion. - I can say that at the highest. Minister. V.E.G. On the same occasion, the prime minister said, with the permission of the president: If the bank's governance interprets moderate and competitive pay policy in this way, then it may just have to be put into a work policy on how to employ the ideal highest managers. In my inquiry, I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister to explain these words and possibly even to the highest degree. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. It's clear to me that these increases are putting this community next to them. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: How does he intend to employ himself and his government in ensuring that decisions that are clearly contrary to government policy do not affect current debates? Does the government consider to reduce the pay of the manager and bank managers who have been raised most, or are they planning not to do anything until society is on fire in strikes and then legalized against them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It was fine to have her reading at the top of the talk. Minister of Social Affairs at Hellu's meeting. I think she has to ask that minister specifically about that meeting if she wants to put him on the Generals program. What I've said about these matters is absolutely clear. When the government's banking regime was established because the State had become the owner of a bank, the International Council emphasized the lack of political involvement with those federal banks. That is why the Bank Administration was set up to ensure a certain distance from the political power of the banks. Now we can debate whether we feel it is wise for the state to run the bank and how much distance the political power has to be from that bank. This means that remuneration is determined by a specific tenant and job policy and is expressed in the form of an assessment. A senator mentioned - or perhaps not. A senator to refer to what I said about these matters, that may be - that the reward is moderate and competitive. Ex-fiancé. In 2017, a minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, sent an appeal to the bank, where he repeated this seducation, and these recommendations are still valid. What I've said is very simple: 4 million. K. Paying is not moderate in any of the realities we know. They cannot be considered moderate in any of the real things we live in, and a 82% raise in one year can never be considered moderate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] A competitive wage - we need not ask political authority: What do we have when talking about competitive pay? If you are a banker at the bank, you have twice as much money as you earn. The secretary of the budget, the secretary of the economy, who has the administration of this same bank? Is it competitive wages? I don't think so, not according to my understanding of the word competitively, and I believe I have an excellent language. [[The president calls.]] What I meant, because of what I meant. A senator asks, perhaps having to write this worksheet out so that it is clear to anyone that we expect it to be actually followed up. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers respond and find pleasure that it refers to it as the former financial minister, Benedikt Jóhannesson, who sent letters to all administrations of the state and ask them to consider the effects on the stability of the work market as high as possible. The minister came in. I would like to speak specifically of words he made in this letter that indicate that it is desirable that pay decisions are careful and that high rates of pay should be avoided during a short period of time, but instead that pay is increased regularly in line with general pay development. I think it is absolutely clear that the governments of a number of government companies have completely ignored these instructions. The list of presidents who have received dozens of percentages of their pay increases continues to increase, and the increase in the total number of dollars is higher than the minimum wage in Iceland. First, I ask: What happens to those in charge who ignore such orders? Will they have any consequences? They'll get to sit on it, i.e. if they were appointed again, can they be re-elected? Is the soleness of the government having this view that it will not be a part of what it will be or will not be? [[The president calls.]] I hear a minister speaking in the cross on these matters at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u13	Mr. President. Then I come to what I didn't come to in the first answer, but what. A senator also mentioned what to do. I have to say, I don't hear a minister speaking a cross in that case. It's about to happen. Financial and economic secretary has sent a letter to the bank and to the administrations of these enterprises where he insists that the proposal since 2017 is valid - provided they are fully valid - and would like the government's rational support for their decisions, i.e. how governments could possibly support their recommendation as well as the general government policy. The governments and the Bank Office are given little time to comment, so they are expected to be answered by the end of this week. How important it is that the government handles such matters very strongly during its study! We have. We have already laid down a plot, which was another source of eternal conflict and strife. We are bringing in the remuneration arrangements of the highest officials in a transparent, predictable direction, and the same must apply to the companies and institutions responsible for the government. Part of the fact that we would like to be careful about such activities, we must also insist that the pay policy is in harmony with government policies at any given time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u14	A respectable president. This weekend, the U.S. Secretary of State arrived in Iceland and it is clear that commercial agreements are being made with Iceland, but according to the claims of Pompeos and the U.S. State Department of State are also said that Iceland will no longer be neglected on their part. In my opinion of the United States, it means that for the defence and security of the region, it is increasing. But what does that mean for us? I strongly advocate Western cooperation, but this does not mean that we can't allow ourselves to criticize our alliances, whether they are from the sea or from the east. According to our national security policy, Western and NATO are blessed to be emphasized. We are to ensure that after joining our major alliances when it comes to promoting cooperation and cooperation, whether north or elsewhere. But there is a focal point to this as a whole, and we must always ask ourselves, " How will I guarantee the safety of Iceland's people best? ' We cannot guarantee our defenses without the fact that we are involved in democracy and human rights, for without the key factors, freedom is threatened and security is also threatened. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because it's a huge deal, both business agreements with the United States, as well as how to increase national security and defense in the North, with the arrival of the United States's greater level of activity: Prime Minister, do I agree that the Council's Foreign Affairs Committee will not only be informed about this, perhaps by just one phone call, but by the Ministry of State? And not only that: Will Ministers support and promote consultation with the Foreign Affairs Committee and try to work together on Iceland's key agreements in this important task ahead of us in our dealings with the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. If I first agree with the State Department on increased business cooperation, it's something that's at a very early stage and is in the hands of the highest level. Minister of state here to answer. So it is easy to ask him further about where that matter is. However, there is absolutely no need to consult the General State Department on all major decisions. I suppose only to the highest. Secretary of State will have a good consultation with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee on Iceland's goals in cooperation, which, of course, matters to us. It matters to a little nation like us, and there I think we are. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir agrees, to cooperate best with different parties, whether we are talking about the North, our friends in Europe, the United States, and Canada, and, of course, around the world. I'm a spokesman for our vast cooperation international cooperation in as many areas as possible. When it comes to the safety and protection, as it were. A senator spoke, I also believe that it was a good step that the Council agreed to define the security concept in a broader way than has previously been done when national security policy was accepted at its time. It has been very important for the Council to take sides in such a course. Now it's no secret that I didn't pay my vote and not my party votes, but because we disagreed with one basic aspect of the policy, which is part of the Atlantic Alliance. That doesn't make any difference, and it became very clear in our discussion of the matter, that we are happy that the Council is in a democratic debate, reproducing such a course that matters to us all, in a democratic way. It is my knowledge that a certain development of democracy has been achieved by the Generals to complete the 2016 work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u16	Mr. President. I thank the prime minister for his answers and sincerity. I trust what Prime Minister has said, that, despite not paying his national security vote, she will follow it, as stated in a government contract. This is of utmost importance to our security and protection. I am still waiting, because it is important that guidance is clear on the part of the prime minister, whether it will exert itself to be tried with the Parliament and primarily by the Foreign Affairs Committee to achieve a solidarity on our main agreement goals. We'll get some, for example. insufficient information on our main contract objective of Bgret. There, the State Department is not connected to the work being done there. I don't think it's right, and I don't get it that way. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does she support the development of a foreign business committee and the council to shape a common position on key agreement goals? I'd like to point out one good example. It is already the controversial application about the EU started. Opinions were divided into groups, but there was something common, the Senate State Department of State was put together to achieve a common conclusion on the key agreement objectives and the interests of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it was a good job. I think it would be preferable, to promote solidarity at the council regarding rich interests in security and defense, that we will achieve a greater solidarity on that matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u17	Mr. President. I think we all agree on this. I think we all agree at the General Assembly that it is very important to have good consultation, especially in foreign affairs. But I don't know any better than it was. Baltrexit has been discussed many times with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee. A special report has been published on this issue by the minister of foreign affairs, and the case has been repeated on the scene of the committee. We also know - why. A senator has asked me this question before I think it can't throw it over to the Icelandic government - that there is still considerable uncertainty on the part of the British government on how that situation ends, but the Icelandic government can't take responsibility for that uncertainty. A senator shot us here the other day. Of course, this is important, especially in foreign affairs. I mentioned the national security policy the other day, but representatives of all classes participated in that work for a long time. A remarkable deal of solidarity was achieved, and a complete agreement on many of its features was reached. In this way, we are especially to be careful, especially in international and foreign matters. [[The president calls.]] I'd like that to be a good tip, I agree. A senator about that, and I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u18	A respectable president. Malturbance, loneliness 24 hours a day, isolation, isolation of people to talk to, sadness, no complaining, no thinking of them, unsecure food security, low food supply, poor nutritional conditions, wanting to stay out of the way. Depression results in irritability, agitation, amnesia, depression, anxiety, and reduced motor function. This is true of the elderly who have less than 200,000 K. each month's preparation, ages 775 to 23 years, and graduates from the International Hospital aging Department. The soul, if possible, suffered even worse because of not eating enough and because of a weak mate. This is what Berglind Soffía Blöndal wrote in an interview from January 3, 2000. to study the aging department of the Land Hospital. The root of the problem is a serious lack of medical care, and everywhere the pressure from hospitals is to graduate as soon as possible. I'd like to ask the minister: Is something being done on this matter? If so, what is being done? Would this be acceptable even if there was only one person in this situation? For one is too much. I just want to know what's going on with these things because a description of how these people feel sucks. It is a disgrace to us in Iceland that we have an older citizen, ages 7 71.793, in such a situation. I wonder, " How can these elderly ones really be in such a condition? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I would like to say, first of all, that after serving as Minister of Health for over 14 months, I have reduced some of the issues that I feel are repeated that are not clear enough in Icelandic health care, which include: Health care for the elderly For this reason, I have put it as a matter of special priorities in the current year, in 2019, and I have already had a meeting with key health care providers in the elderly. The next meeting I will have will be with those most familiar with in advance. Hv. A senator in many parts of his inquiry will discuss malnutrition cases that are part of a prevention issue and, in fact, about the health of the elderly, that we need to stress much more. Hv. A senator also asks about the condition of a nursing home, where we give a great deal of attention. We are increasing the number of nurses, and only this year, we are raising our nurses to a high level of 200. So there are big steps. The increase in the daily cycle has also been on the agenda and has already been increasing in both the capital, north of the island land, and beyond. Because of what? A senator in particular points to less - than - old people, and I want them to know that an additional decision has been made since the last few years that medical costs will be canceled. Therefore, it should not be an obstacle to anyone not to be able to afford to meet a healthcare professional. Thus, there are many matters being done in that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u20	A respectable president. I thank the health minister for the answers. She came into the nursing home. In this context, I'd like to point out an article in the Morning newspaper this weekend. It points out that Helga Hansdóttir, director of nursing homes, is being cut down about 50 million. She asks, "Where to cut down? " And where should they cut down? It's been cut down the last few years. Are you going to cut any drugs? Are you going to cut down food? Where to Cut Down? So the question is, Are we getting more nursing homes than no money to run them? Then they're of little use. Because everything else has been cut down, nurses' spokesmen say they have to choose something to cut down, food, or medicine or anything else. What's going on there? Is there an increase in funding, or is there a demand for it to continue cutting down?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u21	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the council points to the lack of adequate medical contracts. How shocking that is! According to the information I have received from Iceland's Medical Insurance that carry the contract on behalf of the State, information exchange is still being made, i.e. The directors of nursing homes and Iceland's health insurance. I've been informed that communication is in progress. I'm worried about this, just like what I'm doing. A senator, but because the senator here specifically mentions the kicks and the activities there, I find special reason to say that this has been made available for the mentally ill elderly from ten to 20 recently with a special warrant. It is an example of a special health care facility that was especially important, and it was a source of great joy that the Lesbs wanted it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u22	A respectable president. I come up here to be curious about a matter of the highest order. The prime minister who turns to the so - called national fund and funding of the various projects that humans consider important to each individual. I'm going to start by allowing myself, with the permission of the president, to read two articles from the prime minister of finance for a national fund that is first stated in Deuteronomy. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The contributions to the National Fund, which are equal to all incomes that the state's budget has made from income, rent and other revenues due to the use of energy resources on the administration of the state of the state from energy companies in the next year... Then, provisional regulations state: ▪ In spite of the regulations of Article 5. the annual donations to the national fund shall be up to 16 billion dollars. lower in the period 20200/2024 than the income of a state's budget due to the use of energy resources on government custody from energy companies at the same time in order to make a government fund available for further support in the development of nursing and day-to-day schemes, up to 6 billion dollars. During the period 2020/22022, however, and temporary support for innovation, up to 10 billion dollars. during the period 2020/224.276 Of course, this is not the first time two ministers want to use the same billions. This is the case with interest at the highest rate. The secretary of finance makes it that way in his bill, and then it happened on February 10th. describes the highest. The secretary of transportation, however, considers it wise to use the financial resources for the development of transport workers. I'd like to know what's the highest point of view. The prime minister is to their highest perspective. A secretary of transportation and how she sees the situation winding forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. He's referring to the words of the highest. A secretary of transportation who came on a radio show, if I know this correctly, points out that, in fact, the transport program has not been approved here, such as in the case of conditions. A senator may know very well as a member of the committee, but a motion that read: The implementation of new financing initiatives and the necessary bill needs to be done with the aim of speeding up projects in the programme and creating financial space for new projects. It was thus referred to in the highest terms. Transporter working on new financing routes. He spoke in this interview about the initial use of goods for the development of transport. Of course, we are. In addition to what we have seen in recent years, 20 billion are spent on its funding through property income from the financial system. Yet, there is still more to be done by man's ideas. I can agree with this in view of the need for a great deal of encouragement and encouragement. I believe that the secretary of transportation was looking forward to a possible consideration of more property and calling it the national fund in this context. On the other hand, a government covenant deals with national funds. There he is earmarked money from land induction, as stated in the prime minister of finance, and these two projects specifically discussed, innovation, and nursing, which we define as a specific generation project. I think this is a case that really rhymes with the idea that we're thinking a little further into the future. When it comes to transportation, I would have considered it normal to look into other ways. I can't rule out that other assets, such as the highest. The secretary of transportation said in the same interview could be useful there. However, there is a great deal of work ahead of us until the fall of a new transport program if we encounter the ideas that have been developing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. It is a pleasure to do so. A minister thus opens up the transformation of state estates to investments in infrastructure with special emphasis on transport projects. But this may be part of a problem that arose over a year when people sold themselves into a so - called emergency fund to attend 4 billion on transport maintenance projects. This exchange of funds is often freely available, I allow myself to say, and that made this particularly interesting because 16 billion are mentioned in the bill. They are arranged, 6 billion in nursing homes and 10 in innovations, so there is no table for carriers, as shown in the bill's text. That was quite a surprise. But I gladly accept all the ideas that cause space to expand transport. Then there is the question to the prime minister: Especially the highest. A minister has the idea of extending this distance from 16 to any other number in the affairs of the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u25	Mr. President. I hear I haven't been completely clear in my previous answer. So I told them that I didn't think that we could use some means to build up the transport system in addition to what has already been done. With regard to the national fund, it is defined in a government covenant. Here's a bill and I've thought very important, like a what. One senator noted, that we have a somewhat clearer set of lines when we begin to establish such funds, and it is very clearly defined if we are to make use of other projects. However, as shown in this interview with the secretary of transportation, I do not feel that we have considered other methods than most of the official discussions, i.e. The road to the road, i.e. More property revenues than already have been made for the construction of the transport system. I agree with that. A senator says that there is a great need, that expectations are high. We have to look forward to the increase in the number of people around us, changing energy sources, and other ideas about how we want to build up transportation, especially in the capital area. We are open to paths, but no decision has been made to change the plans of a national financial and economic minister to the rule of a government contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u26	Mr. President. There is no need to expand the importance of all citizens of the country having access to public institutions. The government has an obligation to do so. Thus, the State's authority must seek to care for all the inhabitants of the country, and it has long been recognized by the order that in the scattered regions of the public ministry, each of us does not have to look very far for official self - determination and has a relatively easy access to it. Of course, this is not an easy task, so the lawgiver has given instructions on how the multiplicity of the Kingdom is being carried out in the land. A recent law on executional and administration in the 2014 Commission contains just one such directive to the Commission. It is in 2 gr. The country divided into nine county offices. Under it is the district of the province of the Westman Islands, saying that there is a local businessman. At the turn of 2014, there was a reduction in the number of county reformers to about one third of what they were at the turn of the century. Then, at the end of January, a Web site on the Ministry of Justice, which surprised us with members of the Southern District, came to realize that the County Commissioner of the West would be temporarily appointed to the position of the court while he was on other jobs. The Ministry reported that the changes were in accordance with the plans of the Minister of Justice, which she had presented to both the government and the district policy in the government administration in the province that the county had been entrusted to. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice which plans are exactly what they are. Second, what can be said about the lack of advertised office of the Eyjafian who is temporarily involved in going to other jobs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to the importance of the county and the county bodies and the role that the county operates throughout the country, which is very broad and not subjugated to the law. The Agency is responsible for the implementation of the European Commission in the Member States, and it can include in itself whatever the Commission is assigned to do by law. It's a matter of time. In particular, a senator makes the temporary changes that have been taking place in the case of the businessman himself as a person for several months. I declared to the county very early last summer, that I wanted to reevaluate the administrative work throughout the country and opportunities that may be involved in the further transport of projects to them. It has been tried for decades, but it seems that it is not working well for other stewards but perhaps some of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health to delegate various tasks to citizens of the country. Clearly, these opportunities are being greatly increased by the development of electronic administration. I believe the monologue is that we keep that in mind when we consider the county bodies and their assignments all over the country. Men have often mentioned that they have the right to have a member of the county where they live, to be a member of the county. That's right, it's a legal requirement for a certain county office, but it's not going to make any nests in individual county, like any other government employees, and hopefully not in the private sector. Of course, a person may temporarily move to another rural society or another district. I heard why. A senator is most concerned about the district as such or part of it. Only to let them do that will be done. However, I am very happy to have had this businessman help me out this year to identify these activities in cooperation with the Council of the County. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to remind you that this arrangement is the highest. A minister is made without warning, including Said "whisper." paritaprevir So Páll Magnússon in a talk on January 30th. how he, who is the 1st member of the district, received a clear report about the appointment of the minister, his fellow council member. I am amazed that this is done in that way, and I would like to ask: " Why was the temporary office of an attorney in the Western Islands not advertised? What journey is the Independence Party? Under the Independence Party, there have been progressive efforts to put down an office of government in the province. The Agency has been brought down under his leadership, and it seems to me that I should continue in the same course. I will speak as an instance in the valley of Merek, and not all of it in my district, and the Cape of the Horni, and the Nestra, and the Ólafur, and the glory of Sigludur, and Holmavík, and the pacrek, and the valley of Burgur, and the Acrethites. I could give you more examples. These are the offices that have been canceled during the past few years, on the duty of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] That's what's up to. Minister to make only one county office in the country that will then be located in Reykjavík? They are industrious about establishing an office in the capital area and I would like to mention a recent national bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this fine review of the economy and the reasonable provision for tax contributions that has been associated with the closing of individual branches in the country. So far, the county doesn't reduce the number, they're out of service. Let's take Western girls because they are particularly under discussion. In the Western Islands, no object has been reduced from service although the businessman has temporarily taken leave of jobs and sits here in Reykjavík to work for the Council of County, which has been unsatisfied so far, unsurpassed county council but has a role and is now acting as an employee. The client still has his orders, and there is no way to include his office or temporarily advertise. There is no purpose in considering all the positions in general and the projects and job positions. The important thing is that the service is totally unchanged in the Western Islands, although the businessman came into harmony with other county and county councils. The ministry is totally unchanged, and that is what counts most.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u30	Mr. President. I consider that under the conference board the role of the president of the council and the role of the council board. on committees of the council. Now it's such a case, not really, from the management board, to be handled with the job committee. As regards matters from a government minister, there is no member of the Committee. However, there are a number of issues presented by members of the Parliament, including the U.S. The matter of modeling a cluster policy from the Future Group, of resurgence laws, to prevent isolation in Iceland, measures to reduce international fuel costs, but these issues are not discussed. They don't even have a discussion with the Committee, no guests are called in. Instead, the committee's work is being organized from the council site, from the committees, which are good and blessed. It's good to go to a company, public institutions, but I'd like to stress that there's still a case that's being recommended. They have come to the Committee, but for some reason they cannot be discussed. I would like to direct the president that instructions to the committee forms will be made clear in this regard. We also have to do our work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u31	The President wants to decide that the committees are independent of their jobs. If a person makes comments on how a work schedule or job is being conducted, it should be discussed at the first time in the field of the committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u32	Mr. President. I'm glad to have a chance to have a place of words at the highest level. One minister of health care on the top goals and prospects of the government's government with regard to distant health care issues. The task that health authorities face, not just in this country but in many parts of the world, is to provide health - care organization in the best way to obtain the benefit of remote medicine, and to make innovation high below the head and encourage and support to providers as the best knowledge and skills in this language. A proposal for a resolution on health policy to the year 2030, at the highest level. A minister spoke before the end of January, surprised at the lack of attention on the quality of health care. For example, in countries around us, Sweden, Lapland, the interview with doctors through telecommunications is beginning to be offered through telecommunications. And then you can imagine how it works on our fine island. Norway has a plan to consider inviting the physician who is the first to adopt this new technology, and in Britain a third of the health care professionals interview with non-invasive patients through such equipment has been established. So I ask the highest. Minister first of her vision of her prolonged health services in Iceland. In a local church dress code, there has been a large pioneer service in a remote field of health care. Just a year ago, the Ministry of Health financed the use of telecommunications for the East Health Organization and the National Institute for Health. I'm asking, what happened after that? The equipment's been bought. Is there an inducer for health care professionals to take care of patients through these devices? Is there a registration for this service? Is it possible to charge for such a service? What about staff training? Then there is the question that might have come first: Who is in charge of this work? For example, are there local people who know best and know what services are needed, or is this directed centrally from the Land Hospital and Health Care of the capital area? I'm asking the highest. Minister: What are the main motivations for telepathy, and of whom is it motivated? The role of the health authorities in this country should be considered at the highest level. Minister? Health authorities face great challenges to technological, varied, and individual service. In the end, the aim as early as possible must be to ensure the quality and availability of the service and the use of capital. Emphasis on innovation and diversity in this situation is key to the end of the Treaty of a government government, with the permission of a president: Achieving new health issues, Iceland will become the leading and useful of modern technology, including telecuology. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister's further discussion of this plan: How will she make a innovation associated with telepathy under her head? Where does a minister see that these innovations are the most prominent? Recently the Minister signed the surgeon's orders for information security during the administration of a remote health care service. The importance of having security secure is not questioned. However, I would like to make a comment to what can be read from the instructions, i.e. that there is a distinction between requirements for those using national telecommunications services, e.g. those using a closed system at Hospitals and Medical Services, and those outside these systems. In fact, it is often the case of people who have preceded the establishment of sceptre companies and are off with their own business, but it has actually waited a long time for the counseled rules to go further into the Icelandic Center for Health Care. This is where I own, for example. with different requirements for bioavailability or identification requirements, although it is unclear how the result is that a state-relevant system is safer than others. Now the use of electronic documents is not general in this country, and according to the news, it seems that young people are more likely to go on taking up the electronic IDs that companies such as IDs have presented or presented. I ask: Will it be conditioned if people intend to use this innovation that they are providing electronic identification instead of registering themselves, e.g. Through Iceland or other central foundations? Will having and using electronic documents be particularly required if they intend to use remote health services outside the state - of - the - state system? Finally, I ask the highest. Minister, because reports are coming from government agencies such as health insurance, Land Hospital and Akureyri Hospital, programing their own systems: Is this in line with the government's emphasis on the growth of new births in health? Is this innovation to take place primarily within the establishments of the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for bringing up a matter of prolonged health care, and I am delighted to meet her request to discuss this under this program. It has pointed to me four main questions, but this is, as has been said in the case of the why. A senator, a very diverse subject, so I hope that I have time to get to most aspects of this conversation. First of all, ask me why. A member of the U.S. government's general view of telepathy, as mentioned. On November 24, 2017, the current health minister of Óttarr Proppé appointed a team for the advanced telecommunications service, which had the role in preparing suggestions for further development and development of the organization and the implementation of remote health care services. The service group returned their findings to me last year in August. These proposals suggested national policies, quality of life, technology and coordination to ensure cooperation options and to improve practicality. At the same time, they looked for the strength of infrastructures to adopt distant health care services, support of teamwork within and between institutions as well as education and the authority of health care professionals and the public to improve their ability to use the ministry. At that time, the funding of the project and the professional induction was emphasized. Today, the proposals of this group are being carried out, and this year it is expected to be 50 million. Electrolyte health services or telecommunication services are becoming increasingly part of an Icelandic health system, and they must become part of it. This question is actually part of a long - term health service, so in my reply, I assume that it is a matter of distant health care in general. It involves several different factors that support one another. To get a better grasp of the discussion, consider just the terms commonly used in the context of distant health care. The English words "Service Healthʹ, " are the ones that are always used in the talk on national health care and refer to the use of information and communication techniques for health. We are actually referring to computers, mobile phones, panels, etc. to obtain information on your own health. The term telehealth and telemdicine refer to the clinical services provided from a distance, i.e. Remote health care. However, the definition of telemedicine or telepathy is narrower and applies to clinical medical diagnosis and electronic treatment and is really just one part of all these possibilities that technical solutions bring to us. Under the telehealth, which is, as previously stated, a broader term, some other health services, e.g. general information administration, including treatments of health care professionals, prevention and education designed for people in general, but not specifically for an individual person. An example of a task classified as a remote health care provider is a health care site, which is a health care site for the public for health and its aspects, where individuals have access to health and health information, etc. A remote health care provider is thus added to standard health care services, and with increased use of electronic media, there are many opportunities to re-commence tasks for both patients and society. Of course, it is very important to keep it in place that there is an enormous potential for service to more widely distributed countries than we have ever been able to do. Hv. Second, a senator asks about the growth of new health issues. Of course, the introduction to a remote health service involves a new development in public affairs, but innovation is a key element of increased resources and competitiveness, whether in young or in established companies and institutions. New creation is a key factor in our efforts to improve our community and to provide better health care, and I would like to be sure that it is no matter who gives the service, whether it is public members or members that the government buys services through contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance. Of course, technology alone does not help us into the future. Rather, it is our cooperation with technology that keeps us going. Instead of the patient's having to travel long distances to obtain a service or professional professional travel between institutions, it is possible to establish a link between the patient and the professional in their close environment. Third, the Senator asks about the use of the latest telecommunications technology, which has for some time been used by health - care hosts by various technical solutions and projects of different degrees. The largest project considered likely to be an assignment by a surgeon in cooperation with most public health institutions. years working on the development and induction of health sites. A respectable president. I think I touched a fraction of the questions as well as the other. In his background, a senator hoped to answer others in my final talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u34	A respectable president. Modern health services have been developed in many parts of the earth over the last few decades, and research has shown a clear benefit that is focused on quality of life and the health of those who make use of the ministry, which usually reduces the health - care costs. Most opportunities in this area are still being lost in Iceland, although the situation still calls for all available solutions to health care, especially in the country. We live in a large country. It is peripheral, transportation is difficult, and long - term designing, and it does not look forward to turning, unfortunately. There is a lack of policy in the group. A respectable president. It is a marvelous opportunity in a distant health care service, not as an alternative to health care professionals in the field, but to improve the quality of the ministry, to improve the work environment, and to make it more acceptable to work in areas where experts are not at all. This well - experienced technology provides additional support from specialized professionals to evaluate and treat patients, to improve their skills and knowledge. Then there are great opportunities to increase the safety of the elderly from home, both in city to country, and from house to house. Of course, it requires work and the will of the government, and it wants professional people to do so, perhaps some obstacles that must be overcome. The proposals of a ministerial servant's staff from August include clear goals and goals. Time-to-date operation plan. So I ask a minister: Is something tangible going on? The timetable should be up and running at this year's induction, but small movement appears to be on these issues, at least In my district. Based on this project, it is expected that 140 million will be provided. K. During a five - year period, a color vow is not enough if you are walking well. I'm also asking, "Will this money be added? And is the Minister of Ministers seriously serious about this assignment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u35	Mr. President. I thank you for your discussion and verbal vendetta. Health services have not been prominent in public discussions in this country, but these last few years have changed and are positive. Public discussion about the value of telecommunications in cures is needed in general. A study of teleology among health care professionals in Iceland shows that about 80% of respondents are interested in using telematology. The doctors were asked to determine what was best in preventing the use of telecommunications services and to mention about 60% of them lack of adequate equipment and more than 33% of the specified card. It is important that we make use of the technology available to these substances and look to other aspects of health care, such as mental and health care. The absence of health care has been successfully operated in a church town without success, and it has done a presupervisive work on these topics. That can include: Nurses who are on duty sent information to specialists elsewhere in the country, thus offering quick, secure services at all times. Mr. President. I want to focus especially on speech services. The remote services of speech pathologists have not been investigated here, but in a foreign country it has been highly investigated and indicates that this service is effective and not inferior to personal service. Also, research shows that service workers are satisfied with their telecommunications and that high economic management is compelled not to drive long distances according to the services of speech pathologists. Thus, it is possible to help people who find it difficult to travel long distances to obtain the services of their speech pathologist. Long - distance service means that a speech pathologist trains his clients through telecommunication devices rather than face - to - face encounters. The client gets the training through a computer at school. Public discussion of the value of telepathologists in telecommunications is needed. [[The president calls.]] In this country, most speech pathologists operate in the capital area, and those serving in the region must go a long distance. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is imperative that the telecommunications of speech pathologists be examined in this context. It is an ideal way to improve this important service in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, and the highest. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for taking this important discussion here. How important it is that we have the opportunity to discuss evolution and all the building blocks of health care through new technologies and opportunities! In recent years, we have seen such growth in which people have contributed to an outstanding service in the land. It has developed ideas that have become reality, such as in a local church monasteries, where a doctor and nurse offer a better access to a health care facility, which can also be used by specialist physicians. This is exactly the improved ministry and opportunities that are sometimes forgotten during the discussion when we discuss the system and the requirements we need to make. Then the service for our people will be forgotten. Other outstanding newcomers in health - care services have been raised to meet the demands of health - care professionals based on their reality, the reality of new technologies, and other services. We must not contribute to having these companies in trouble or communication with the State because we are going to expect too much of those who improve access through technology, more than those who are already doing this service face - to - face but not through technology. I'd love to hear from the highest. Minister if there are any ideas of getting experimental projects into the health service to use this technology, whether or not we'll try it after the staff come forward, because without research projects, there will be no developing funds. This will never allow us to consider more fully the requirements that are normal, how knowledge can be used by people who have contributed to the improvement of their ministry. [[The president calls.]] We need to meet people who can receive service with ease, quicker solutions, and fewer expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u37	President. As mentioned in the discussion, remote health care is an important addition to health care and for society, but I would like to focus on only obstacles, whether the greatest obstacles to innovation in this country are often, unfortunately, government reactions. Distraction of innovation, such as necessary telecommunications, has been a challenge for pioneers. At times, telepathy demands more than standard medical care. An example of this is a recent surgeon's order to provide information on the security of remote medicine services. It requires that users of the ministry identify themselves with electronic documents that are not readily available to a number of individuals. For example, young people under 18 may not readily identify themselves without parental consent. What about people who don't have an Icelandic social security number? What about groups of people who just don't want to use electronic IDs that are in addition to the services of one company, ID, a private company, and who seem to have a monopoly on the market for electronic identification? What justifies such burdensome identification requirements? No identification of any kind is required when people attend the clinic, hospitals, psychiatrists, or even when seeking advice from a health - care agency on the telephone. The only technical solution to meeting the requirements of the personal protection law in this regard cannot be seen. When considering the safety information, it would be normal to separate patients from the health care professional. Since a patient does not have access to his own medical records through telecommunications equipment, there is a physical difference between the two in the sense of personal protection. Why are patients strictly required for electronic identification as conditions requiring the use of telelogy service? President. One of the main criteria for spread of electronic health is the uninterrupted availability of the target group in the ministry. It would be helpful to hear from the highest. A health minister sees the need for better consultation with the pioneers in the national telecommunications service to ensure that the rules established regarding their activities are not burdensome and that it is a failure to prevent the introduction of this innovation, this service. It would be heartbreaking to lose this important pioneer work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, for this discussion and for the highest. Healthcare Minister, Svavarsdóttir, for her input into the discussion. The needle in Iceland or in our neighboring countries is not new to remote medicine. They have been successfully practiced here. In 1992, for example. Starts a test project using X-rays from the Western Hospital to train at the X-ray clinic, and more hospitals were added in the years later by improving communication. Councilmen have been talking about a village monasteries, which has been very early in these cases, riding on the streets of the locals. Remote therapy is a synonym for very different things or from one phone call and in helping with very complex operations and the self - working of medical equipment. One of the incentives that Iceland and I make up for these matters is that it is difficult for health care professionals to care for the country. However, it should not be forgotten that although technology will be successful and able to improve the diagnosis and treatment of teleologists, in many cases professional workers will need to be on both sides. So the need for men to move to and the employee will probably be more useful. New technology may enable patients to stay in touch with their doctor or walking ward through apps on cell phone GSM shipments, etc. This is how the treating person will be notified if treatment is not successful or situations that need to be treated. Also included in the discussion have educational meetings or so - called clinical meetings. This is a very important site for training health care professionals, especially those who can work in small cases. Radiotherapy may reduce the need for monitoring and follow-up visits and may even reduce the community's costs of travel between parts of the country. Little wonder, then, that this is the case with "cure " and that's what we need to improve in this regard. However, they do not replace the field emergency services. That's where we've got to make sure he's done all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u39	A respectable president. We're talking about telepathy, and I think they're just the best stuff, not just out in the country, but here in the capital area. You have an appointment with a family doctor, maybe having an appointment in a month, but you can sort things out one, two and three by going into a health situation.is, you have contact with a doctor. You are also in contact to make new medicines and other things. It's just the best and very comfortable stuff. We are also to look to our neighbors, e.g. Greenlanders. They stand for such cures, and they are far away because they are far removed. They've handled their cases very well. We're not supposed to be afraid of technology. This is the future, and we should see to it that everyone can learn. Although we're talking about electronic IDs today, the future must be that it doesn't need any specific electronic IDs. It may be enough to use eye scans or fingers to get in on pages like this. We're all supposed to be able to access it, we're just going to have technology around the corner, and we're just to make sure everyone can use it. This can be the case with so many like sailors, people with diabetes, and others. We should not be afraid of this, we should look at this technology, and we should be the chief of the nations and make sure that all can have access to this service, and then we're in good shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u40	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. How important it is that we approach the discussion from a broad context! We see distant health care as an opportunity for an even future. The country's settlement, especially about the factors that we know that when people face sound status, access to service is high, top priority, especially when it comes to health and education matters. Even more interesting is this natural opportunity for experts to have the whole country prepared for, beyond the southwest corner, and to provide the same service. Therefore, it is important to ensure that everyone has access to the technology and that experiments cannot be closed because of some fear of new technologies and new developments that no one is ever to be afraid of. Also important is that we Icelanders can take quick steps together in knowledge and access to professional specialists. We must not view this revolution that we face with our distant health care as a threat but, rather, as an enormous opportunity. Now I say, everybody's got to go up on deck. We need to ask ourselves, " Am I making use of all threads to develop distant health services and, at the same time, make good use of the funds? ' Can the public make up a new contribution to the private enterprise, to the sceptre companies, to the innovations that have already begun and that have taken in abundance knowledge and experience? I'd like to emphasize that as soon as we can take these steps on telepathy that can lead us to a knowledge community, including a remote health care unit, we need clear vision and political leadership. We must not approach the situation, so we build barriers, walls, or walls. Rather, we are much more inclined to open the system and use all our energy whether it is within the public system or in an independent network.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u41	Mr. President. It is likely now some 19 years ago that the person present was involved in what might then be called an experimental project under the direction of a fine director of a health - care organization in a country then present. The work was done just right, and then the project was moved to another place and went well there. So it's not anything new we're talking about. We're not talking about something that's a test project or something we should be thinking about. This is what we're supposed to do. This is possible. What is especially important about this may be basically two, three things. First, we need to remember that all education by health care professionals is part of the package that we offer when a person decides to be educated for health care. This is of utmost importance because such knowledge does not come naturally. Second, I also feel very important that we do not think of distant health care primarily as a response to a lack of service or a response to a lack of staff. Rather, we should think about this first and last as an opportunity to improve our ministry in order to improve the quality of our ministry. The discussion has shown that the personal protection issues are underneath and important, and those projects need to be solved. And they're just to be solved. We shouldn't let them be obstacles. We're supposed to find a solution. There are many ways to go, and we have already begun working in many areas in that relationship. As we have seen during the discussion, there is much that can come about and solve all the problems we face through prolonged health care. To form a service between countries, not just between parts of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for giving this important discussion on the program as well as the highest. A health minister for her answers. The basis is for equality, i.e. equal access to expert services regardless of location. By means of extended telecommunications, there are precious opportunities to work progressively at providing special health care, to improve access to services, and to improve practicality, as well as to be effective. Then, too, there are opportunities for practical management for the patients themselves, which is just as important as shown. in less travel costs, as well as fewer absences from family and less work hours, which are often considerable when significant distances are needed to meet expert physicians. The fact is, the Icelandic nation is getting older, which means an increased need for health care, and the need for the ministry is very important. The fact is, however, that research on the health of Iceland has shown that people living outside the capital area suffer a greater measure of health, which is a major concern. Clearly, then, we need to improve our ministry. A distant host is an important link in this, and as we have seen, technology remains to take many steps, including one another. Adjust the system and ensure financing and financing. In this context, I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to take advantage of this opportunity, to think a little bit outside the box, and consider whether maybe. it is not appropriate to stop using the same excel document for the capital and for the national settlement over its head. We are a few people living in a large country, and this has its own cost. It is long time to view a different service in the country in order to make the best use of money in health care, with the goal of ensuring the best possible services for the public anywhere in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son and the highest. Minister for taking up this case. I've been following this discussion with interest because I'm completely broke in this case. I'm following with interest and interest because I'm not very good at this. It has been shown in the discussion that this is not new. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Gunnarsson was talking about 19 years ago he came to this case, this job, and maybe something further since it began here. It's been a long time and evolution's been going on, but obviously it didn't make it back to me, I had no idea. I was more of a Ouija bottle, and at séances, that might say something about my age. This is very interesting, and technology is somehow in control of this discussion, and technology is the product of technology. How happy we are to see what we can do about technology! Nevertheless, I think, and it has been observed here in talks, that we live in a rural country, and it has been difficult for human health in the region, and there have been all kinds of experiments. It will never change that meeting a doctor face - to - face may be the key to success. It's very interesting development and it's fun to watch, and I'll do it from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u44	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. When I hear the word telepathy, all I can think of is a chance. These are opportunities that we need to make good use of and an ideal opportunity for the development that has taken place, how the supply of health services has changed, the specializedness we've talked about, the lack of human resources to do the work, and especially access, how to ensure the best possible availability. This is where I think it's an opportunity to use the active force of those who have the best health care and improve teamwork and so on. We are often discussing how difficult it is to get doctors to work in the country or to get them to do special work here. There's a golden opportunity for the doctor to return to his old province and to care for his expertise across the country from a place in the country to care for his expertise all over the world. This may be in both directions, not just to increase access to the ministry at home in the district, but also to the extent of the ministry involved. I want to emphasize here that we need to think along with this, as we have often discussed, about the importance of building up emergency services outside the hospital. Because of increasing tourists, additional education and skills are needed for those in the hospital, this emergency service, in the field. Such workers, if thought of things from the start, can become at the other end of their telepathy, so that they can be used in a health care provider to help with the experts. The staff need to be used both at the scene and at the clinic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u45	A respectable president. In a council proposal to the highest degree. A few weeks ago, a health minister presented the contents with some segregation. Is this good, since there is an important step toward making a decision? It is a sign of a certain long - range vision and a vision, as well as a 2nd. In this context, the word for view of the future is used. I'm just saying, at last. This is an essential step if we are to enjoy an efficient and efficient health system in the region. The vital possibilities of telepathy surely have not been overlooked by anyone here today. Similarly, far - off medicine comes from the government covenant itself. With relatively small costs, telepathy opens up many opportunities for innovation, both within the medical system itself and in the technical sector, for software development, etc. Well, there's a chance there's work to be done. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to link this up, too, only the discussion, such as why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason did here just a few minutes ago, about broken - down sites. I would like to suggest that as we approach other problems involving the work we do here, we have certain telethon glasses. This can be connected much more than people think at first. I've mentioned the steps and how much it has to do with technology and intelligence, all the possibilities we have there. In unsubstantiated questions, this was the case with a lack of nurses, who have been repeated laws here in the Assembly Hall for the past few years. You might also ask if there is a chance for telepathy. Patients who do not need intensification may be able to replace daily space with overall space. There are all these things that can be directly connected. Similarly, education was mentioned earlier. The potential for education can be like that in both ways. A senator came in just a minute ago. I'm celebrating this discussion and thanking her for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u46	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion, which is really needed. Radiotherapy will become an increasingly important part of health care throughout the country. It allows equal access to national health and services experts and not just in this country but also access to specialised information abroad. Communication is the start and end of good service and the theme of health care care for most people. The use of digital solutions in the health care sector is increasing and will continue in the years to come. This is important for both providers and users. This could refer to health professionals in nursing homes in a country where very sick patients who find it difficult to travel to the capital to seek specialists, but both doctors and nurses could use telepaths in their field service as a whole with a larger group of professionals, which work like other pipes, both working in both directions. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdotsdóttir has proposed a plagion, along with ten other senators on welfare techniques, where health ministers are encouraged to appoint a team that measures the means of welfare services to older people and disabled persons, including how telecommunications can be used in this country, taking into account the experience of other northern countries. Roadway technology covers a number of technical solutions for users that have fallen to the maintenance and improvement of performance and community involvement and quality of life. Here comes the right to an independent home. It is important for people to live as long as they can, regardless of their age and level of health. There the use of welfare technology can create a new environment for longer living at home, an important health and public health issues. A respectable president. By making good use of technology, we will reach a wider group of people all over the country, and this could also reach the sailors at sea. This could help identify more acute illness and the consequences of accidents on ships and then respond appropriately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Councilmen who have participated in good discussions. I predict this won't be the last time we talk about this party. What we can take to heart is that we agree on the importance of distant health care in general. It has been discussed here in the country, and it is going both directions, indeed, a service that the country can accept, and a service that the country can provide. This is also important for the urban population because we are not too well maintained here by our access to health care, especially in time. Staff. It has been observed that health - care professionals are exposed to high risk of secular coldness and coldness, especially as a result of stress and poor performance. Authorities see opportunities to improve their ministry. Authors. Iceland needs innovation, and if there's any way to say that we can be on the front point here, it's when it comes to the innovation of telepathy in our coastal country, our slender, well- educated, well- educated, health-careed country. This is an enormously powerful instrument for tickling into all these important boxes. There is one reason to warn, however, and I want to make my final statement, that is, the Icelandic and Icelandic rulers of the Icelandic world, have to find out where the bike is. I think now we need to be careful not to direct the charges and funding primarily on the design of some system that we so end up with because it will be too expensive to turn away from that path. The beauty of the trend in many places, using the Internet, is that the systems are not so important but the programs and they can be moved slowly. Above all, the service to be performed through telelogy must be defined through policy. What is it we're going to get out of this? What kind of service do we want to render? How are we going to equalize our bioavailability? How will we give workers the opportunity to render the best possible service? [[The president calls.]] We do not do so by decrating at the outset some system that will be involved in years to come. [[The president calls.]] - I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your time. Here are some points at the end. First, I would like to agree with what has happened to almost everyone who has spoken, and that is how much opportunity there is in technical solutions to improve the ministry and equal access. That's key. Second, I'd like to say that it is very important to create technology to look at the case in full terms of security in the foregrounds without developing technical fences that could limit cooperation, I completely agree with those views. This also harmonizes with the conclusion of the group that I left earlier. I would also like to say that the introduction and implementation of a long - term health service is not only about the use of new technologies but especially about prospective managers, the courage to plan for organizational changes, the shape of new work practices and a job flows where service to patients is in the foreground. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A saying that this too is important to have the most exciting working environment and a challenging opportunity to develop into a job. That's why it's also a design. The changes really require the entrance of all involved, and good cooperation is essential for success. Here's a few of the reasons why we should be careful not to use the same excel documents for the country's settlements and the capital area. I'm very aware of that. Today, our latest task as a national health care center is that all possibilities are under control and that we can also do so when we are reviewing health - care payment models that it is not necessarily the same with the capital area as with the country. The model from Greenland was also named. Greenlanders have come a long way to take advantage of this kind of service and develop it. We have and have been working together in the Western field especially on the Greenland experience of distant health care, and we will continue to develop it. [[The president calls.]] Once again, I'd like to thank you for a good discussion, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u49	Madam President. This is a continued query. I had a question for the then social and equal minister -- now he's become the social and child-friendly minister - Ásmundur Einar the son of Daðason at some point before Christmas, reminds me. Now I would like to inquire of the Minister of Justice, for in my inquiry to the Department of Social Affairs, he referred to his case as child protection, but he had not been dealing with a foreign matter in this case or the Secret Service, he referred to a minister of justice. So I direct my questions to the Minister of Justice. The reason I'm on my way with this is because I'm one of the children's spokesmen. All members of the council have appointed one member of their body to be advocates of children. This is the work of the Children's Career, UNICEF in Iceland and the Children's Agent. There we promise that we will put first and be guided by it - a guide that is used - in our work to ensure that the United Nations Children's Covenant is followed. Inquiring a minister with a request for an oral response, I am doing my duty as a surveillance officer by whether these laws are followed. In 1st. Section 3. says: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. At the same time, 2nd. 2. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ In each Member State, take appropriate measures to ensure that a child is not discriminated against or punished by the position or actions of his parents, lawyers or family members, or viewpoints they express or their opinions. Regardless of the parents'position, we, by law, should focus on what is best for the child. I saw in the news, and I've talked to the lawyer of this party, a little over a year old boy named Filip Ragnar. His parents have a living permit in Iceland as students, but they won't let him live. It is a law of foreigners, 71 C.E. 5. mg, who is authorized to give annuity. There's some offense in there, but you can still give them a break. This is especially so, both in the article itself and in the report, that this is done to ensure the child's rights. Now I was talking about which rights the child has by law, that all these government agencies do what's best for the child. And what's best for the child, in the case of Filip Ragnar and Erna Refrea, who is not on a temporary basis here because her parents don't have a living permit - since she doesn't have a license, she doesn't get the rights that other children in Iceland have - we're not taking care of the inferiority principle I mentioned in the 2.mg. 2.g. correct your child's rights. Minister and I have talked about this, but I want to know clearly, what is the situation of this case? What work is being done at the Ministry so that the child's rights and best interests are respected?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u50	A respectable president. Perhaps it would have been an explanation and enlightenment to hear which rights are exactly rights. A senator believes that the children who are suffering are missing out on these matters. [[Up front.]] - Various social rights are called here from the Senate Hall. It is good to remember that we are. A senator has discussed these matters before in the hall, but it is better to correct that children born here on the land receive a so-called system identification number, of course, do not sound well to start life on the system ID, but that is the case even though they are registered in a national file. This is real life, and they children have entered preschool and have enjoyed a variety of other services while their parents enjoy a living permit to study, for example. Of course, that may be the problem. A member of the body knew of something that does not qualify for such service, and of course it is not good. But I'd also like to mention, and I'd like to say that men have the health insurance in this country, since it's perhaps best to look at the rights, maybe the most important in this relationship, that these children are health insurance after six months' living. Children under 18 years of age have health insurance with their parents. This is true both for Icelandic citizens and for others who come here from abroad, that they don't enter the system until six months. Parents who are here on the basis of a resuscitation, e.g. for study, do not automatically blend into the health insurance system here, but, of course, people are always free to buy health insurance while staying here. It's known to be quite well. In fact, any right - to - be children born to Icelandic students abroad are being examined in the countries. In the Ministry of Justice, it is now considered to review the complete repertoire of the alien law in order to circumvent various shortcomings that have been identified in the implementation of the law. At that work, we will also consider whether it is right to add new laws to the laws that take into account children who are born here while their parents have a living permit that does not provide the right to family unity. This case has even For a discussion on the field of the transnational Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, it was discussed that, rather than adding additional information to the family unity of students, we would examine whether all children born in this country and whose parents are allowed to have the same privacy as their parents. Such a law would include a group larger than just the children of students who are born here and must be important, even in the light of their peers. A senator referred to him. It is estimated that in preparation for a bill will be conducted in months to come, and it is hoped that a bill may be submitted during the next session. In this regard, it turns out to be normal. But I also make it important for humans to keep this in mind in other lands. The children of Icelandic students abroad, at least in many lands where we are highly studying, we do not have special rights for what is called economic and social rights in those countries, but we enjoy rights with their parents. It must also be kept in mind that the best interests of a child are always being with their family and enjoying the rights of a family.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u51	Madam President. Actually, it is after working and pointing out, but according to Erna Rekas's lawyer, where parents don't have a living permit, she does not have certain social rights as they are bound to her legal registration. For example, it does not, by permission of the President, have the right to the medical care of the local country, dental services, the right to go to a school in the local community where it resides in an intake requirement for a registered home in Iceland. There's clearly a bunch of shards in there. I would like to ask how the secretary of justice would react if I or others could point out that this is not a guarantee that the child has equal rights to other children under the UN Convention on Child Rights, stated in 2 mg. 2.g. that it is not the parents'position that matters when it comes to rights. No matter how it is done, how a minister is pointed out, if there are such errors in the system that now there are children in Iceland who are not given the rights they should have according to the law--and it is quite clear from the UNICEF that while a child is within our borders the rights to which the rights that say in our law--if it can be pointed out to that, would it not be the most reasonable thing to do? A minister uses the documents he has to bring in temporarily with some extras to ensure that his rights are in place. It says in the foreign law that the Foreign Institute itself, by permission of the president, is permitted to deviate from the conditions of this law in particular if their child's interests are required. And that's what it says in 6 mg. the same articles: The secretary is allowed in the Regulation to set up additional conditions for environ ment on the basis of this article. The secretary has the legal right to intervene before any overall review or review of the holding section and then respond to the rights of the children as soon as possible. Is a minister ready to take that step?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u52	A respectable president. Of course, it is alpha and our omega state that humans have the right to do what is right. That may be the problem. When a senator traced an example of a parent's not having legal rights, he was misspoken. If so, of course, following your parents is not the right thing to do. You also need to consider that if a child gets the rights, e.g. the right to health care and other things, may also be lost properly in their own country. It is not a matter of leaping from country to country to obtain many health - care programs. Most of all, it's the right thing to do. For example, consider the example. A senator runs and wants to deny that a child is not legally entitled to the rights it holds, I think there is a misunderstanding. Because this is why children do not have the right to do the right thing. That is exactly what we are looking at at at the Ministry of Justice and in the transnational committee of Congress, which has the view of the alien law. It may very well be that we change this section on the rights of children, the children born here, but are the children of people who have temporary residence rights here on the land. That may be the case, but that, of course, needs to be the law. We also need to consider that humans do not lose privileges in other lands, perhaps in their own country, that may render better service - though we perform an excellent service here, e.g. in the field of health - that one is not losing even better or more varied in his own country. It all needs to be examined, and I don't believe it except for what we're doing. A senator can agree on at least The goal, to have the same rights that the parents here have. I just agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u53	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to why a hearing agreed in September 2016 by the representatives of all classes at Congress to validate a selective addition to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinction has not been carried out before the end of 2017. Also, I ask them what they were sitting in, but now it's been over a year since the chosen Annex was due to have been validated. When can we expect the Senate to be carried out on the part of the Ministry? Perhaps the process could be accelerated by the Ministry of State taking over the matter. The General concluded in 2016 that a selective addition to the contract would be validated. The Annex includes important legal improvements for disabled persons, one of the ways for individuals to be called on by the United Nations on their rights, and the other is the way for the Committee to investigate serious and systematic violations against the agreements of the Member State. Now we have validated the main contract. We signed this optional appendix back in 2007. We were criticized for not validating him for a very long time, but it was done 2016, as I said earlier. The selection book recommends a course of charges for individuals and groups who feel that the government has not granted them the rights of the contract and have no success, as illustrated by the examples, the new resources they have under Icelandic law and a government system to achieve what they believe to be right by the contract. As a result, they are being strengthened by their legal status and the means to exasperate the charges that are possible. The review board can then request information from state to state and direct references to them. By validating the optional accounting, it will be more effective for countries to enforce the agreements. At the same time, when human rights are more protected, the rightness of disabled persons will be increased. It should be noted that some 90 countries already have the completed appendix, and of course we want to be among them. I don't see any threat that should come with the agreement of the 2016 Parliament. I'd like to know what the minister's position is to validate or propose a proposal here to validate as soon as possible an appendage of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u54	A respectable president. Of course, it is proper to be held accountable for a judicial hearing agreed in this hall to be merely a synopsis and, by nature, the resolutions of the General Assembly at any given time. I'd like to mention something that matters to me, that since the Council concluded about a choice supplement, two total elections have been held, 2016 and 2017. I would also like to mention that the political treatment of such cases is far different from a legal project, and many people have been reckless in what they put in the Senate arrangement and have accepted all kinds of cases from the wishes of various members of the council. I'm not saying that the Parliamentary decrees have been almost buying and selling, but they have sometimes been used to negotiate the end of the council or other material. I'm pointing out that Congress protocols don't have the legal value. Regarding the interpretation procedure, it is good to recall that a synonym was proposed to validate the United Nations Convention on a disabled, simple proposal made by a body of Congress to do a very well and to be treated by Congress, in accordance with the treatments provided by the Senate arrangement. However, during the last few hours, the proposal was changed in a way that added to it that the Senate's decision to validate optional records would also be made. That change did not receive any political treatment, no review, including The Ministry of Justice or Others, no expense evaluations, and so on. I'd like to say this in the beginning. Then let me say that over the past year, the contribution of international cooperation has increased year by year at the expense of national legislation, and the Icelanders have undergone the European Convention, which is closely related to the Constitution of Human Rights. It has also taken place considerablely in order to be able to participate in the EEA Treaty, and in both treaties there are various regulations aimed at ensuring sovereignty. For example, the EEA Convention seeks to ensure that decisions are made by our institutions rather than by the European Union itself. I'd like to introduce you to this council arrangement. A few years ago, the General concluded that the procedure was also validated, but on the further follow-up, it shows that this agreement is not merely meaningless, but it says in the Senate that it does not include new rights to disabled persons but includes that a foreign surveillance committee of stakeholders will determine their position of interest to the Committee. Thus, the view of Congress involves that when certain individuals have cleared lawsuits within the country without having what they want for actual courts, they can try for a legal advantage to the committee of stakeholders, where the conclusion is less likely to meet minimum legal requirements. The United Nations Monitoring Committees have suggested that Iceland submits to selection of the books so that members of the UN can gain legal history in certain judicial groups that have proposed this as the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, and the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural Rights. It's got a lot of access to whether the rest of the North countries made them books. Hv. A senator mentioned arguments that recommend the introduction of the optional booking, but there are reasons, and in my opinion, that outweigh the fact that it is introduced, which applies to the others as well. The evidence is that the opinions of these committees are inseparably binding and therefore a more adverse way for the complaint than for the results, e.g. The European Court of Human Rights. The charges may lead to unrealistic expectations in public and stakeholders, who may not even be aware of an unbounded opinion. I'd also like to mention that human rights in Iceland are already loyal, and that these books really don't add any rights, as it is sometimes stated in the General resolutions, e.g. in resolution on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment Some of the books have to do with estimating rights, even a policy declaration, where the outcome can never be known in advance and cannot be guided in any way. There are not many relevant requirements for members of the Committee adopted on World Monitoring Committees and often come from a panel of stakeholders, and thus there is hardly any adverse decision - making committees. This is of great importance when it comes to the intention of assigning someone to discuss the rights or duties of both the citizens and the states. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u55	Madam President. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask the secretary of the council for the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. That is exactly what is called for validation of the appendix, and the legalization would therefore be a step - by - the - step step. The Matrix was well accepted by this council resolution and its members as well as its members. The case is ready to be taken care of. By permission of Madam President: A mental - health aid encourages the Allied Parliament to accept the Convention's Reconception and thereby add its weight to the scales to the human rights struggles of people with mental disorder and other disability. The European Parliament is warmly celebrating the proposed proposal and underscores the importance of its approval. If the motion is not accepted, there is clear evidence that with such inactivity, the lawgiver would again refuse disabled people to have self - worth as much as others. Children's manager welcomes the proposal and believes that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people will strengthen the position of disabled children in this country. V.E.G. Minister. Is there anything to wait for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u56	A respectable president. In addition, there is a requirement for the support of disabled persons. They want it in, they want it confirmed. It is still going on, and recent decisions are being made that suggest that bioavailability cannot be legalized because the United Nations Convention on the Issues of the Incompetent One has not been legalized. For one thing, I say, "Why do things happen?" This is then 2016, and they try to minimize it. Why is there always a silence in the matter of disability, ordering it to be somehow complicated, hopeless? We should start thinking things over again and try to make sure that the rights of those in the United Nations Convention on Infirm People, that these contracts are just legalized and that they are completely closed. It is the will of the council. That's why it's completely incomprehensible that it's so complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u57	A respectable president. This is an amazing statement for the Minister. We have a representative of the United Nations Children's Prevention Board, which is comparable, one of the many UN Committees that protect human rights here and there. Is that agent as incompetent as the rest of those committees at the highest level. A minister mentioned? I don't think and I don't think it's hard to use this language to argue that we're not supposed to go on that road. A minister also mentioned that the smell of Congress was some sort of exchange in the Senate retirement work that I find extremely interesting to hear. Is it not true that when members of the Parliament press the voter's vote, they are moving on to their convictions? What should they expect, if Generalis's will is expressed in the joint votes of members of the Parliament, that he will spring up because there are new elections? It doesn't work that way. If a minister does not intend to comply with current council agreements, simply bring a new one to destroy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u58	Madam President. I must declare some disappointments with the highest response. A minister of this matter, in effect, finds it completely unacceptable to discuss the terms of Congress as a list of requests made by the council and to be treated as some other rate of Congress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I just don't think it's possible whether or not we're going to talk in general or on this particular case, which is a political proposal that was agreed to validate an appendix on the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. I don't really know who we've come to as a legislature if Congress laws don't matter, and if you can just pick things out and choose which convention rules to enforce and what not and I just think we need to look into things in a much greater context. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u59	V.E.G. President. I have to be completely honest with you that this answer is the highest. Minister of Justice fills me with so much sadness, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Eagled's Árnadóttir, for coming up here, drew attention to the fact that we vote here and say yes as the highest. A minister of his day and as for the council arrangement, it is necessary to vote according to our own conscience. It's not some change. This message cannot be sent to the environment and to the world e.g. into the world of disabled people. You can't offer people this. This is by no means possible. I don't understand this approach, that this document is just some change. What a surprise it is when we see that this was approved in agreement here at the council! Do people really think that the Qualified Community or Developmental Help is just playing with promoting that this will be approved, that this policy added to the UN Convention for the rights of disabled people will be validated? Of course not! Even if there were only one or two cases that might test this contract, it is relevant to the very individuals who are looking for a measure of protection in the legal realm of Iceland. It's just that way. Those answers are not acceptable. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There's no such thing as this. I don't believe it. I don't want to believe it's the attitude of the Independence Party. I refuse to face it. We've got a left-green attitude, and thank you. I don't believe that this is the attitude the forward party wants to put its name on. I'm the highest. A minister to revise his position and bring into the council council resolutions in which we validate this appendix, which increases the rights of disabled people. We're not supposed to be afraid of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u60	A respectable president. I thought it would be right to observe the nature of the synonym in general. Of course, they don't get the same discussions here and the legal products. The cost is not the same. This particular point, which was now added for an hour for a vote, has not been costly. It hasn't been examined. It was not in any way considered how these matters are being addressed in this committee. I'd like to mention it, and it's important that the people in this country who believe in a crime have already made a number of practical suggestions. They can sue government decisions with the hope of a better decision or a decision to be judged. Such a conclusion is feasible. It has real meaning. If a national court decision does not agree, it is possible to refer to the European Court of Human Rights and Iceland for its reasons. However, that court can also determine a decision that has meaning for the person involved. In most cases, the rules that apply to such matters are the most favorable and the international books and contracts that are involved, not just this optional book, there are other optional books that humans have mentioned in this relationship, rarely add any rights to the individual's position. Nevertheless, there are many who view such agreements with hope. I understand that, I totally understand, but it can be a mislight. I find it important to hold on to it because I have talked to disabled people, and I have talked to the disabled people who feel that this has some real meaning. In fact, the synopsis makes it clear that this is not a binding notion. And what does it mean for people to represent this committee rather than do it here or in the European Court of Human Rights? It is a responsibility to create and create expectations that do not measure up. So that's what matters. I'd also like to mention on the legalization of the contract of disabled people that we have validated it. [[The president calls.]] It would be a pleasure to have him legalized. We will not do this until we can cope, and there is plenty of time to take. I think it is very important that a body of Congress agree to be able to fulfill the commitment of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people before entering optional books there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u61	Mr. President. I'm going to keep asking about rights related to disabled people and their access to the legal system. I must admit that I hope that the minister's attitude will be different in this inquiry than the last one. I ask: What has been done to fulfill our commitments in connection with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people to provide effective access to the legal system, including those who are disabled. with proper training and training for those serving in a court hearing, whether it is police or prison staff? And also: What has been done about the assessment of the status of disabled persons in prisons? We have to keep in mind that the contract includes... The need to consider how to ensure effective access to the justice system and how Member States should promote such instruction or appropriate training for those working within the justice system. That means even. to take into account all specific measures, as stated in the contract, and each government should weigh and evaluate, taking into account, people who are disabled and their circumstances, and the need for legal and legal requirements, and in action without being considered to be discrimination against other people. This is true whether we discuss criminal matters or personal matters. A respectable president. In recent years, issues that clearly demonstrate that the Icelandic legal system does not guarantee the rights of disabled people who claim to be seriously offended and who have the right to enjoy the right to enjoy just as much as others do. Information has also been provided to suggest that the justice system does not take into account the positions and needs of people who are developmentally affected or have psychiatric disorders and/or suspect crimes and are investigated by the police and even put on guard. There are also data from prison authorities showing blackness that people with developmental problems or others with psychiatric disorders who have been sentenced to prison punishment have far too little special support in prisons. In the legal system, there is also a very appropriate option for them. The National Department of Developments has repeatedly stated that the Icelandic government insists that, without delay, an analysis of the Icelandic legal system and will take appropriate and adequate measures to ensure that the legal system is at all levels necessary to take into account the circumstances and needs of disabled persons. It's on the basis I ask the highest. A minister of what has been done in this case to ensure the access of disabled people to the legal system so that they will meet all international commitments, as well as the general human rights in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u62	A respectable president. Yes, there is plenty to take when it comes to fulfilling our obligations to international agreements - and this is 2 mg. 13th par. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment Fortunately, several arrangements have been made to live up to Iceland's commitments in this regard. Helped to ensure effective access to the justice system to disabled persons that the professionals of the justice system receive appropriate training in the affairs of disabled persons; in the access of disabled persons to the level of perpetuation of the rights system, there is also the testing of treatment where the disability, the guilt, or the procrastination calls for special action. There have to be a number of factors about that. Today, needy individuals who need assistance in caring for their rights can consult a court official who operates under the law of rights for disabled people and the regulations of rights. All over the country, local rights officers work for disabled persons and are conditional enough to have knowledge and experience in the affairs and rights of disabled persons. These rightskeepers should observe the parameters of disabled persons in their territory and therefore be on hand with any kind of rightness. At the beginning of 2017, a State Attorney appointed a group for the treatment of sexual abuse in cases of disabled individuals. The task force was to consider aspects of the reporting form of disabled bacteria and tolerability of case testing and reviews, instruction and training of police officers, accusers, judges, etc. The staff were assigned to set up procedures for the management of the above cases. The staff returned a report to the district attorney in June 2018 and was presented with a minister in October. The Group suggests that there will be a general review of the rules of reporting by the defendants and hearing of criminal treatments in order to improve the legal status of disabled persons. On the basis of this report and the proposal of the district attorney, I have decided to submit it to a judicial committee appointed for the Minister of Justice for the Change of Justice, to consider and implement the changes proposed on the criminal treatment. At the same time, the State Attorney has issued instructions for the police and other accusers on the treatment of sexual abuse in cases of disabled defendants or forcompetents on the basis of these proposed task force. This report also provides additional suggestions for improvement in this field, such as in the case of statistics to be held along with the instruction regarding the status of the disabled. They are now considered in the Ministry of Justice. There is also the fact that policy and implementation of programs in the affairs of disabled people prior to 2017,2021, is also a factor. To find an action aimed at increasing the knowledge of the police, the prosecution, and the judicial system of violent crime in order to ensure that the disabled are protected by the justice system to the level of others. In accordance with this procedure, the police's educational and occupational centre held a four-day special course in special - with special emphasis on autism. It was the spring of 2018. Last year, a conference on March 23 was also held in cooperation with the Department of Health at the branch office's rights, with the inscription ◯ What is the safety of disabled persons? There have also been a number of conferences and training in researching detectives. There is a strong sense of awareness in the justice system in general that has special needs for people with a wide range of disability. I'd also like to mention that here at the council is my legal bill on human rights for private hearings. Since this is not the case, there is now one issue that may be beyond the obligation that results from this special agreement by the United Nations. But I hope they get positive treatment and float and shoot here at the council. It is also important to have this access in private matters. It is specifically asked if the status of disabled persons in prisons was evaluated. Information from a prison facility has not been evaluated, but access to the equipment of wheelchair users is ensured by special kennels at Holmshekik, Littleun and Akureyri Penitentiary. At that time, a prison agency will try to meet the needs of disabled persons who need special care or equipment on their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u63	A respectable president. We'll talk about access of the disabled to the justice system. V.E.G. The minister of justice entered the disabled person's private affairs. One of the hardest things to do today is to get a lascivious. I'm asking you, what's the situation with the disabled in this situation? It was then said that people could handle their cases to the courts of rights and other matters, but they do not cost much. Don't afford to be disabled. They can't afford to go to Icelandic courts unless they're called for. That's one of the things that need to be handled. It tells itself that a disabled person in prison does not have good income. If he wants to fight for his rights in any way and go before the courts, he must be harassed. I'm just asking what they're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u64	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for the inquiry as well as the answer to the highest degree. Minister to her. Fortunately, there has been something happening in these matters since I was standing in this pit in 2015, reminding me that it was, when society had to deal with women who were disabled. It was just then revealed that for instance, no training course had been held that judges had had had access to that special status of disabled people. I'd like to be happy to know that they were dealt with. They were in the process. A team has completed, a report is now being prepared, and it is now being processed. I'm especially celebrating, but I'd like to direct it to the highest. Ministers that at that job there will be consulted by specialists in the affairs of disabled persons who have expertise, including of what violence is like against disabled people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u65	A respectable president. In this regard, I would like to talk only about the access of the hearing and the deaf to the justice system. Here is a bill from the Minister of Justice that turns around that they have the right to a sign language girl in private matters. That's extremely important. It has been eight years since Icelandic Sign Language was accepted as the official first case of hearing loss. This is of utmost importance, but there are many more people in this country who speak English or a foreign language than this one. So it is very important to deal with this as with the other rights of those with disability and other specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u66	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Happily, many have developed in a positive way. The environment is getting better than it is in a faraway country, but some of the right men came to the document. I'm the highest. Minister to take the step further. It's nice to put groups of work together, have a plan of action, but it needs to be followed up. It may even need to be. to make it on the basis of capital. I'm asking the highest. A minister whether it has, after the introduction of the report in June 2018, assumed that it would provide funding for these factors, i.e. to ensure the rights of disabled persons and access to the legal system. I also want to make sure that the instruction on the justice system, whether in police or in prisons or in others, is very important. I also want to encourage the highest. A minister to evaluate the status of disabled people in prisons. I think it's really important. I've heard there are individuals in prisons on basis of development inhibition, but they don't belong there. I'm the highest. A minister to cover this area thoroughly with the exception of the general availability of disabled offenders for public service. I'm the highest. Minister to the honor of this. I hope we have an opportunity to support that matter, whether there are judgments in private matters, the case mentioned here, or in other matters. But I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to take care of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u67	A respectable president. I'm not worried that there's a good connection between change and evolution in these areas. Of course, it should be kept in mind that science is also spreading in these subjects. A person may see new limitations that he or she had not previously realized could make a difference in the way he communicated in general, let alone in such important matters as those in the court order. This question was specifically asked about the rape of the disabled. Of course, it's like everybody's abduction. Money is taken into account, and it does not matter whether it is disabled or not, for disabled individuals are all kinds of people, wealthy people, and others with less money between their hands. So it is not a definition of disabled persons that they cannot afford to administer judicial cases. On the other hand, there are general and systemic requirements, and they include those who are disabled as well. I'll be signing it in the last week of Regulation, which increases the threshold due to the filing process. Everybody does. There must be solutions to the disabled there, especially if there are some special views that I don't know about. This work continues, and it has done better than start groups of people. As I described, I have requested to the Court's Committee that she is working on the projections for changes in these matters. They're going to see the light of day, some prime products that're going to do it. Of course, we strive to have all the experts'work to look for, in order to create the best of our ability. They asked about funding. This has not been particularly appreciated, but I think that this is the most important education, change of work, and practice, such as. with courts and policemen that cannot be, as you say, within the frame. [[The president calls.]] It's more of a work-and-recognition thing to do. But some money may be missing, and then we'll go for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for coming here to discuss my inquiry about the electronic administration of the Foreign Institute. This request was originally submitted in mid - November, but since then a Government Review has submitted a report on the treatment and procedure of the National Institute of Environment, carried out at the request of the General Assembly. One of the main results of this report is that a national accountant believes that a plan and effectiveness can be improved in the management of applications in the Foreign Institute, as well as shortening the duration of the treatment by implementing a better information system and using an electronic application procedure. This report has been discussed in the Directorateship and Management Board of the Generals, followed by a review that I believe is more urgent than before in discussing these matters at the Ministerial Conference. It is important to remember that from 2009 in 2004/2017, there were 134% increases in provisions for residence as well as the number of applications for international protection more than thirtyfold. These changes have called for increased activities of the European Environment Agency, but have been most often met with initiatives with temporary financial resources for the applicant's products of international protection, but the necessary input to promote long-term efficiency and efficiency has not been implemented. All applications to the Foreign Institute are now submitted on paper whether it is relevant for residence permits, visas, Icelandic citizenship, or international protection. That's thousands of applications. The Agency's staff, in turn, renders the information form manually into an information system that is time - consuming, inaccessible and puts a risk of errors and mistakes. There is no way that candidates can monitor the position or conduct of the application during the procedure. Besides, there are problems with information systems so that employees also do not have a good perspective on their status or ability to communicate information. According to the 2019 budget, the objective and measures of the Management Board support new and improved databases and the information systems of foreigners. At that time, the Foreign Institute itself has defined electronic administration as one of its important tasks. However, the information presented in the Commission and Observation Committee cannot be understood any other way than that it is still unsolved when or how this project will be carried out. So I ask: Is it possible to prepare electronic administration for the removal of housing and other permits at the Foreign Institute? Has there been an assessment of the costs of implementing electronic administration in this area? What advantages might result from such induction, either for governments or for users of the ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry about electronic administration, which is very interesting to me in all the members of the Ministry of Justice, to get it more clearly. I certainly believe there are many opportunities to make a trial more efficient and less expensive in the Foreign Institute of Iceland by means of electronic payment, especially in the area of living and civil rights, and at the same time primarily to improve the service to the customers of the U.S. National Institutes. The objective is that applications should be submitted electronically and accepted if all conditions otherwise are met without the application of paper-specific treatments. There is, of course, greater service from now on. It is considered to improve the Agency's information system so that statistical information, which once more facilitates governments and members of the council, the financial institutions, the whole project and the follow-up of these measures, can be obtained. Foreign Office and Justice have closely followed the development of technical solutions, and I hope that formal working in preparation for such changes can begin in the next year. A report by the National Review of the Foreign Institute since November 2018. A candidate referred to, pointed out that the Foreign Institute is urgent for the implementation of electronic applications and applications and that the Agency improves electronic communication and an electronic approach to candidates. I'll take my mind off that food. It has been tried to assess this cost in connection with working on a financial program for 2020-2024. Then there's been a request of 94 million. K. funding for the need for analysis and renewal of the information systems of the European Environment Agency. So in the suggestion, there's a further request, which is the wish of the Foreign Institute of Iceland, 14 million. K. The budget for 2020 and 40 million. K. in 2021 and 2022. This is what we're looking at, and then we're trying to make an independent assessment, including the Ministry. The question is, What are the advantages of this induction? It is clear that, as discussed, electronic treatments are being made more efficient and faster. The number of visas increased to form less than 60% between 2015 and 2017, so it is of course urgent that the Agency can respond well to fluctuations in as many cases as possible. An electronic management changes the work environment and also opens the way for improvement in operations and the type of service. And because there is talk of jobs in the country, this also opens up the possibility of doing this in other locations than in Reykjavík or the capital area. Candidates may include monitored, it is also important, the progress of its application and the direct communication via an electronic application procedure. It would be possible to have a permit, so that the system handled it itself, such as renewables of a particular sector, a family pool, and a family unit. provided that all conditions were met. In time, electronic systems could reduce the demand, the application procedure would be more transparent, and the outcome could be faster. All I expect is that everyone agrees that this is an honorable objective and that we should try all the ways in which we can implement increased electronic administration on the work of the Foreign Institute of Iceland, such as the rest of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u70	President. I thank you for the leader. Especially the highest. A minister for clear and clear answers in which a minister's will was made quite clear. I think we all agree on the need to improve our activities on this issue in an electronic registry because we don't have to go to funerals to see how bad it has been in not living with them. It appeared that money should be obtained from the last budget, which changed between the 2nd and 3rd. Sadly, the money is earmarked paint, and as the minister went over, there is a need for special funding into computer systems, as well as a reevaluation of funds and so on. I welcome these positive comments. We'll expect to resolve these issues, those who really need it for the better, i.e. those who enjoy the service of the Foreign Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u71	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the leader. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative, for this need of inquiry and minister for an excellent answer. I am indeed surprised to learn that all applications to the Foreign Institute are still placed on paper in the modern world, when more electronic services are spoken of. It seems to me that the putting of the millions spoken of by the minister to this party is very important because it is very important to resolve these issues as a result of increasing activity. Then my natural mind starts when I think of a groundwork plan and plan there for jobs that are not there, which is now a practical option, where we're about to complete a light-leading pattern for the whole country. All I see is that this is an up-to-date project for it. All I want to do is make it happen in this discussion and suggest if we can, in any way, strengthen the country's settlement as soon as we improve our ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u72	A respectable president. All support for electronic administration is clear from now on. But I make a note of these amounts, 94 million in need analysis, as shown in the case of the minister. I hope that's not quite the right amount. [[Taken out to: 14.]] - It came a little later, but if 14 million is needed in a need analysis, it's too much because the software could be created for 14 million, let alone the rest. What, then, are 80 million going to wear? It's always nice to get more information on the budget after this, but it would have been better to describe it when the budget was finished. I've been working on some of these systems, e.g. I'm at the Institute of Education. There were one 20 different computer systems I suggested there, and the total cost of it was 100 million, so it's going a long way to take care of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Justice minister for the answer and clear will for this matter, for the introduction of electronic systems and better information systems at the Foreign Institute. I would also like to thank those members of the council who have been involved in the discussion for important inputs. From the top words. A minister may suggest that we can expect more clear goals and suggestions in this area in the next financial programme and the next budget. There have been strong reasons for putting this work first and for many opportunities to do so. One such factor is that electronic management can result in a loss of employment. However, we must not forget that the position of the applicant after the farm will be more balanced. I have observed many who have had to use the Agency's services but have lived far and wide throughout the country, and this has not always been simple. More evidence for the induction of electronic administration is improved communication and services to individuals. A foreign agency has, e.g. It is important to note that instructions may be tailored better to each person through such a system. This could be done better with instruction and with full - time service. It has also been noted that services for the job, employers who often wait for the residence notices of prospective employees, whether in the education system, in innovation or in the fish industry, will be much better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u74	A respectable president. Yeah, I went around the country the other day, I don't know if you guys noticed. Then I spoke to the county office in various places where this was pointed out. They are commissioned by the executives of the European Commission to take on various tasks and in some places, e.g. accept applications for reinvigoration of living things. There was an opportunity to complete or complete these cases in the province rather than send them all, even if it is electronic, to the Foreign Institute. There are tremendous opportunities in this regard because jobs are not being talked about. Most important of all, our service to the person who is applying is being guided. I'd also like to keep it in place, because it's not something that a man goes into with one hand, that we also have to bear in mind that living and employment applications need to adhere to data that are definitely considered sensitive personal information. The person sending out such data must be equipped to transmit it electronically. Of course, the recipient's system, the Foreign Institute in this case, must be made sure to include personal information that comes electronically as sensitive personal information. The computer systems need to be specially designed and perhaps more complex than e - mail communication requires. This is a special question for sums of money. I've mentioned a budget or the need for additional funds at the Foreign Institute, 94 million in need analysis, and a renewal of equipment, to be maintained. I guess it's mostly meant to be reinvented. I thank you for your helpful and practical discussion on this subject. I think we're looking at an increased electronic administration at the Foreign Institute in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u75	A respectable president. We have a lot to do in many parts of the country, both watching a natural problem in many parts of the world, and especially our volcanoes. We also see entire slopes preparing to move forward and so on. In these same areas, tourists are increasing in number, and the population in the rural area is also increasing, which is well - off. There has been a different situation in areas where current public defenses caused by floods, volcanic eruptions, the possibility of moving, etc. Much more people have entered these areas, both tourists and residents. It then takes much more to clear the areas and respond to natural disasters. This increase in tourists and inhabitants is also accompanied by more accidents, more illnesses, and more events that need to be dealt with by police and public defences. The project's gotten much bigger. You may feel that the ability to react has not been fully followed. We will see that, over and over again, big things happen. Then there are the same individuals who are doing this in small areas. In the United States, there are many natural hazards. They include volcanic eruptions. imminent and there's a mountain slope, the Pigeon honor, possibly crawling forward. In this area, there are typically about 150 people - in this community. It's the population. But the GSM phones on which the Weather Service is registered to clear the area if anything comes up are 2500. People are not watching television at home. There are people who are active in mountain tunnels, icehouses, glaciers, highways, and so on. The question is, What has the government done to cope with such rapid changes? What plans for the future do we have to deal with this so that we can ensure the security of our residents and visitors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u76	A respectable president. The objective of the public defence is 2 mg. 1st par. social protection laws, planning, and implementing measures aimed at preventing and limiting the impact of the public on physical or health, or the environment or possessions, for various reasons including health problems. ... bya natural disaster. - I'm gonna do this right in the beginning. Clearly, the number of tourists has increased dramatically. In 2011 a public security risk review was issued, which assessed the risks in the national public defences and police districts. Even there was a number of them. Observe the increase in the number of tourists and the risks it puts in the country and the ability of citizens to receive increased tourist currents. At the diagnosis, it was found that in many parts of the country, the districts were neglected to cope with the changed circumstances. Hence, it was suggested that the limit to sustain and control tourism. At that time, a variety of tools and responses, such as education, information, procedures, and measures, were put on to improve safety. In the management and response of nature, the Federal Police Department's public defence has highlighted information for tourists. This has been done in cooperation with embassys, tourism services and tourism stakeholders. There are various ways to inform tourists about natural hazards, such as social media, Web sites, and the media. In times of danger, e.g. By volcanic eruptions, text messages are sent to foreign and national mobile phones in the vicinity of a danger zone with information on how to react in Icelandic and English. I think a great deal of gratitude is about to become and renew, e.g. the possibilities of these text messages, over the next few weeks. The National Emergency Association then runs the website saftravel.is available in several languages in cooperation with public and local public protection, providing information on various security issues, warnings and practical information for tourists. These large growths in tourism have led to significant changes in public defense practices, and it is clear that areas need to respond much sooner in terms of evacuation and closure. Various areas are completely exposed in case of disaster, e.g. Areas where distance is high and reactable are based on a small number of people. The Federal authorities in the South have worked hard on what they call hazardous action. If a large event occurs in small areas where a number of tourists can study up to three times the population, there will be tremendous pressures on the operator's response. Maybe that's what it's like. A senator was referring to the fact that there are always the same people involved. Granted, it is good not to be too knowledgeable in these matters; we also need to ensure a measure of knowledge and experience. At the same time, however, it is a challenge that the same people always turn up. Part of the challenge has been met by increasing the number of South police officers. At this time, high-regional monitoring has been put in place for increased tourism in the area of Bárbing, e.g. In the Hole-In-The-Wall test, from the end of the sodas. In the South, however, there are also many multipacked tourist attractions, as well as whales'inspections and extensive highway traffic. I'm not referring to Southland just because it's a prime problem. Rather, it is a very popular resort for tourists and their destination. Volunteering members of the National Emergency Department and the Red Cross play an important role in the public defense organization, both in search and in saving, as well as in the number of respondents. P.R.s are aware of the added pressures and challenges that have been faced in recent years. The growing number of tourists and the prolongation of the travel period involve new challenges and pressures on the party's response. This year, the World Health Organization will resume work on national risk analyses. Whether the direction has been developed to cope with this situation is asked. A travel agency, in agreement with the State Marshal's Public Defense Department, has made a presentation plan. The plan predicts the planning and coordination of action in nature and other disasters to ensure the safety of tourists in Iceland with the aim of ensuring an organized and consistent response of all in times of emergency. The P.R. and Security Strategy is up to three years at the same time under law and is in the hands of the Public Defense and Security Council. The policy was first adopted by the Public Defense and Security Council in June 2015. It presents 42 activities that have been carried out in collaboration with the carer and some of them with regard to the issues asked here. The Ministry of Justice is preparing a new policy and will be submitted to the Council of Public Safety and Security for approval before the end of 2019. I want to know at the end of this hearing that the P.R. Council of Public Safety and Security met for a meeting after a break - a few years - at the beginning of this year, it reminds me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u77	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you for bringing up this important subject. We have a number of things that are changing rapidly, including our way of life, the number of tourists, and other things that call for other practices and changes. I welcome what a minister has already advised us that these matters are being done. There is a natural army of policemen, a very important factor in increasing security levels. But then I'm above those people who always stand up for the full year's shift and volunteer work. I'd like to introduce one or two aspects of safety. Now I hope and expect to be the highest. During the circuit trip mentioned earlier, a minister of justice and a member of the council realized that there is not a sufficient telephone connection about the country. It has false security in it. I think we're going to have to make a real effort on it, and I know people are looking at it, but I'm pointing it to you, and you can't rely on radio transmissions. [[The president calls.]] There's too many towns all over the country and out of nowhere on the radio. Therefore, you cannot be sure that the State Radio is the security valve it is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u78	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that leads to a question about the ability of the police and the public defenses. It is clear that high coordination is present in this country between the systems and the governments, volunteers and residents, far and wide throughout the country. It is important to continue to develop these coordinations as it has been established. I'd like to include in this discussion the importance of land information systems and accurate registrations. I don't know if it's the highest. The minister is prepared to answer whether such a national information system is being used to register e.g. events that occur, the tireening of cell phones, and other factors, can be very useful if this is available in precise atmosphere systems. Similarly, I would like to mention the very little importance of towns along the highways, in which towns, such as Grims, or Whitenes, are located near the Deep.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u79	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that is very needed and that touches the area where I live very much, i.e. The Country Society of Horn Parkland. Theoretically speaking, theoretical forces have been placed on it here. I agree with it. A senator spoke of individuals who carry out the lifesaving work and so on, but these are few individuals. I would like to wonder, then, if it is really possible to be more supportive to that group by training, education, and other such things or even by equipment. It's expensive. It's burdensome. The GSM, radio broadcasts, and other things that have been very in the discussion for a while, but things happen slowly. But I'd also like to thank you for what has been done well, and I've been added to police officers there. The past few years have been reversed, more attention has been paid, and the work done by the chief of police in the South has been exemplary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u80	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussions that have taken place on this important subject and that many good things have happened. On that course, we need to keep moving. In order to reduce stress in the current, the number of respondants needs to continue to be increased so that our good systems do not fail. The importance of the volunteers in Landsbourg, which is correct, was considered here. Its importance is immense, it is not always possible to give more work on the volunteers, and roles are growing, such as. ... witha rescue team in the Desert, which is now a firefighter, a medic, and she's got to cut to the scene of an accident, and she's just doing all the roles. When more projects come to each one, something is left over. Another factor is important, so that the information delivery works, the alarm will also be increased. It's, for example. It is easier to watch the front door because it falls under a treasure store than a volcanic eruption, because there is no disaster fund to cover the procedures needed there. There are many of these things that we need to keep working. We need to take into account that these are small areas that face a challenge in the largest urban population in the country. Thus, it must be built up so that our good systems, which we have today continue to develop and not break down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u81	A respectable president. Yes, it was correctly pointed out that on my trip through the country, I learned, as I knew, that there was no phone connection everywhere, or radio. It has to be counted as remarkable. You don't realize that. As you look at the landscape, there seems to be nothing in the landscape that should prevent it. But that's the way it is. It needs to be addressed, and I have full faith in the ongoing process of doing so. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that a number of tourists are moving in places where such a relationship is not and they want to get involved with nature without having a telephone relationship and that they have no intention of listening to the radio on their journey around the country. There will always be places that will not be in communication. But it is important that at least one person is well aware of the circumstances and is informed about them. Tourists, that they are traveling in such wildernesss, and that it is impossible to assume that messages can be sent for e.g. Nature. There's a key role there for a travel agency and the travel authorities to encourage travel services to inform all tourists of every natural problem. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you for the discussion, and I'll see if there's any comment. A senator and an impulse to increase the number of reactants. Of course, we will if we appreciate it in such a way as to improve it. But as I mentioned earlier, it is very important to be able to build on experience and to build up some experience, not too many places at once. So there are various viewpoints to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u82	President. On March 13, 2017, a petition to the Minister of Human Rights on how the formation of the United Nations Children's Covenant was adopted. According to 54th. The Minister shall complete the report within 10 weeks and the report shall then be printed and distributed to members of the Parliament at a meeting. According to this, the report would have arrived at the end of May 2017. A time limit for reporting requests was set in 1992, but before, there was no time limit for such requests. It may be asked if the time given is too short but my feelings, based on limited resources, usually takes a much longer than 10 weeks to respond to the report. Sadly, no accurate answer can be obtained from the Senate's computer-reading documents, since reports are commonly received after the start of a new assembly and are not listed as a Senate document, at least not related to the request. Thus it is impossible to automatically check whether the report request has been answered or not, then you need to look it up by hand. It may be possible to compare the reply time of the report requests to the reply period of written queries, but according to Congress legislation, responses to these will normally be received no later than 15 active days after a request is permitted. A statistical analysis there shows that during the current council, the average time is more than two times the allowed time laid down in the Parliamentary Act. If it is a double period of time, a child - making report should have been submitted at the beginning of August. On June 1, last year, the Ministry reported that a team of workers had been appointed to work on a United Nations Convention on Child Rights. The task force was appointed after the report was due. At election time and when a new council takes over, i.e., there are different reports and requests. However, the time that a minister had to return the report, despite an unexpected election, was very limited. Therefore, I ask a minister: Why was a report on the implementation of the United Nations Children's Covenant approved by the Council of 146, not returned to the council within a legal period? How far is the job at the Ministry report? Since the work force has done something, a set time limit was probably given to answer the request that this committee sent. Will Ministers intend to complete the report and then when?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u83	A respectable president. You're right next door. In March 2017, a senator requested a requested report. The Justice Department worked on such a report in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. In fact, the request was extremely extensive, so it soon became clear that it could not be returned at the right time. It was announced to the General by e - mail in May 2017. In the fall of 2017, a council broke and chose again. At the same time, there were significant changes within the Ministry of Justice. As a result, the report was not completed. However, in 2018 a report on the birth of the children's covenant was proposed by the United States to be made up of 2017, according to a commitment according to the 44th chapter. The covenant. The work that was in line with this commitment was put first. I appointed a team in April 2018 with representatives from the Ministry of Justice, Education and Culture, Department of Social Affairs, Health Ministers, Transport and Foreign Affairs and Foreign Ministers. So this is a working group set up to prepare a report that was due to be submitted in 2018, not because of a request. Senator. In addition, this team of workers was consulted by the board's board of directors of human rights, who represent all halls of counsel. The report on the implementation of the children's covenant was carried out in accordance with the United Nations Committee on Child Rights and was endeavored to give the correctest picture of how the children's covenant has been carried out in 2009-2018. The work force had extensive consultations with the preparation of the report, both to children and to adults. To make sure that children's viewpoints were well presented, it was also decided to perform a special paediatric report that has brought together a child's attitude toward the implementation of the European Convention. These two reports were published by the Board of Management Board in October. and finished working group working on comments in November. After that, the reports were sent to translation and were finally sent to the United Nations by the start of February. These two reports are both available on the Department of Justice, and they should be readily available. A senator responds to the request he himself requested. However, I would like to insist that this sort of reporting request can be extremely extensive, and in this case it was more than a year's work at the time of these two reports. It is asked: How far is the work of the report? As noted, a report to be answered from the council was to be used to produce the report for a child - care committee, i.e. there was a chance of answering a request. The current report helps the senator and his work. In view of the fact that a comprehensive report on the implementation of the children's covenant and a specific paediatric report on the same subject, I don't think that there is any reason for me to make up another report on the birth of the child's covenant. These two reports are on the Department of Justice. Finally, it should be noted that the group appointed to write the report on the children's covenant will continue, follow the report, and respond to any comments made from the Child - Court Committee. It is also true that the Management Board of Children's Management Board was formally appointed at the beginning of this year by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, as well as by that group. The role of this group is even To shape Iceland's policy, vision and goal of children's affairs, and to map the child-making contract as part of that work. I hope so. A senator can study the type of work that is available and benefit from, if not also enjoys it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u84	A respectable president. This is of interest to us as to how it seems to be divided between what goes to the council and what does not come to the council, where the Council asks for a particular job that is not finished while the work is done, but is not returned to the council. Perhaps it would be reasonable for some form of work to be done on which a request is, in fact, based, to be made a verbal report to the council? Because it was once the council asking for such a request. It's all right that she's more important, so to speak. But the subject of my inquiry is why the council does not receive its report and why it is certainly not answered within a legal postponement, e.g. Because of how extensive it is. I think this is the kind of hobby I have for special writing requests, the time given does not reflect reality at all. It is given 15 days to submit a written query, but it is usually returned after more than a month or 32 days, or more than a month, on effective days. I think it would be interesting if a part of bringing in both a written request and a file request would be some assessment of the extent of the project that could give all members a small idea of that, when accepting a request, what that means. For example, a report on Iceland's status against the EEA was adopted, costing about 9 million or something about the same. Who knows if the council would have been different if we had known the scope? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-18-66.u85	A respectable president. He'll tell men their brains, boy. A senator, when he says that it may be wise for the council to have an idea of how much time it would take to respond to the report request, or even to inquiries, written inquiries. Yes, I think it would be a good idea for a man to put it down just to put it down, investigate it, and try to evaluate how much time and resources are involved in answering queries, and then possibly so that the Ministry can ask for more extensive deadlines or even financial contributions, more financial resources, to win these reports. There is a fact that the Ministry - I'm not going to say that they're going to get hurt, it might be disrespectful to say it -- are struggling to answer questions from here, often and often simple inquiries that could be obtained by members of Congress, even questions that might be more interesting to have rather oral reply than written. There are other inquiries that call for answers from a number of sources, a number of institutions, which have not necessarily been expected to be involved in information sources like this, or even information collection. These institutions may have to get information from a whole other person themselves. I think it would be worth a while to reevaluate all of this, huh? A senator of his own plays a role in this with his own inquiries. It is this way at the Ministry of Justice that now is the time to respond to queries as well as the cost to follow. I'd like to mention it just at the end of the day that the senator wishes to discuss this particular report, I'm sure he would call for it. There is no need for another report. I will then only answer that request with the available report.
