ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u1	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He made a subject of an article by Kristinn Sigurjónsson on a three - pack energy package and a cable that is shown in the will. I liked it so much that I had studied this article. It suggests that there is a major difference between energy production in Europe and then in Iceland. The European Union's targets are very clear, and they always aim to increase the use of renewable energy such as those we have here in Iceland at the expense of fossil fuels, nuclear or coal or other unclean energy. You must ask yourself, " Where does that energy come from? ' Where should it come from? It is not present in the quantity needed by the European Union and by the European Union. There's nothing unlikely that they'll ever look to such countries as Iceland. And I couldn't agree more. A senator in that we are a very important country in the European Union and very likely that the European Union would like to agree with us on the basis that we are not following the European Economic Convention. But I would like to ask. A senator, who has quite more Congress experience than I do, about what I held in my childish simpleness: that when stakeholders were called for committees such as dog. This would be done to bring up views that would be so used to build up the decision and position of the Committee. Now it seems that some 70% of the reporters have been exposed to what happened. The source of the energy package was compared to that of a foreign press committee. What is the reason why the committee takes such a stand on this issue when the greater part of the event is called on to make such a decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u2	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is a very interesting question, and perhaps not a single answer to it right now. She needs a natural study, of course, because, of course, you think it would be in the spirit of democracy when so much more of the people who come and give their opinion so important that the committee listened to these opinions. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator seems to be completely overlooked the magnitude of the number of people who came before the committee is concerned about this matter. There may be some interests in the back that you don't quite realize, I won't be sure of that, but of course it raises questions. It is a natural thing that the head of the Committee would have to answer, why are they overlooked that so much of the visitors were concerned about the case. However, there is something else. A member of the council came into mind: I wholeheartedly agree. A senator says that we are very important to the European Union. That's why I think that anything called panic propaganda, even revealed. in the large ad in one of the newspapers or two magazines today that this is an EES deal upsets the EEA, etc., I think it's nothing more than panic propaganda. We are very important to the European Union when it comes to energy. It's pure energy that's very valuable in the European Union, energy exchange ahead, etc. So I'd say in fact, it's just that it's a half-child thing to say to say that it's all upset and the European Union just wants to get rid of us. [[The president calls.]] It certainly is not that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u3	V.E.G. President. Yes, it's certainly claimed that this is where the EEA deal will be upset if we take the way we oppose the energy package input. But you must ask yourself, " How on earth can that upset us? ' We're party to this deal. And being involved in a contract leads us to have something to say about the contract. It's a two-sided deal, actually, there are more sides on it than we are on one side. I know how to ask what interests are involved if we interpret it, as it were, by declarations from the EEA and the EU and the foreign minister and the government, that they are prepared to make this legal announcement. They may know, i.e. The European Union, that by providing legal warnings, they do not keep it and will not fully achieve the objectives of a pack of three energy? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u4	Madam President. What a remarkable thought that is! A senator, very much so. In the light of history - we only have to look in the direction of the meat - we see that such a warning does not hold. There's really no difference. We'll sit, as I told you before, the cryo-depth law, we think that we're just about in the wind, and we don't need to worry about the case - exactly the same as the legal advance that's about to be put here that no cable will be laid except by the permission of the Generals. There's no difference. We've just seen that these types of models don't think. The European Union does not want this in advance. The only premonitions to think are the legal ones that go through the deal. That's the way to go, to use 102. gr. in the EEA Convention for a permanent release. That's all there is to it. We know that. We can see that. We've tried. The same is true in these respects. So I'm going to say it right now, huh? Senator, I think you've got a very good look at this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u5	President. I've raised questions with some members of the council tonight and have been rather uncomfortable with their answers, but members of the council have expressed their concerns. It's about the step being taken now, that there's another step in moving the county with Icelandic energy, possible prices, disposition and the like, power over energy, more in the hands of an over-national agency outside Iceland's landstones than it is today. Am I there to witness to what was recently in the morning newspaper that discussed the agreement violations of the European Commission based on the 2006 Service Directive and the 2014 Public Shopping Regulation? We've introduced both. Our representatives seem to have had a conversation with the European Energy Commissioner, who described in some form of declaration that Iceland was a bit of spes, which should therefore be given special treatment. But it is already this so - called four freedoms and the flow of goods, people, capital, etc. Over the border, there are other rules that apply but that apply them to the management of the energy manager. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether there is a risk that the step currently being taken is not really another step in bringing further impacts from Iceland to the rest of the European Commission or, in some case, the EFTA monitoring agency, which is, of course, under the instructions or guidance of ACER. Are we not taking another step toward removing authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u6	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists and agrees with him that, of course, the soil is being prepared and put the power under this common market of energy. I think it's perfectly clear. Precautions and declarations, etc., e.g. This joint declaration by the U.S. secretary of state and the European Union's energy manager that Iceland's special status is recognized -- I think that men must be reasonable and realize that such preventions have no meaning. This must be done legally for the joint EEA committee representing the EFTA states, ambassadors of the EFTA and then representatives of the European Union. It's the right scene. To be honest, I was amazed when this joint statement was issued. I thought people were getting further into these matters, and I realized that these statements are of no significance. I have to say, as it is, I thought the State Department now had a better perspective on these issues when it comes to joint statements. I'm not fucking with the good people that work there. It seems that it is a political party that the government has taken, has run and tried to get through a statement to save face. That's why I'm saying it's not the methodology to use. They're just going through the contract. It's legal, and all that matters is this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u7	President. So the current steps are to be taken are further markets for Iceland's energy, expected. The steps that some former senators have been taking, including, are Jónasson. I don't think we're supposed to market energy. Seven. The EEA Convention is spoken of as ensuring homologous interpretation and implementation of the proposed rules. Does that not mean, then, that once we've introduced the types here, there's nothing to turn back and change after? If so, should we simply enforce them and ensure that their implementation is correct, their interpretation is homogeneous, and in accordance with the interpretation of the European market? And I'm right. Senator, that we are taking steps to introduce here certain changes, e.g. Energy agencies, which meet the requirements of ACER?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u8	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. You're absolutely right. A senator when this induction process is over, there will be no turning back. So we don't change anything unless we just tell the EEA deal and we haven't talked about it. However, this agreement is a two - sided agreement, which, of course, should be looked for mutual conclusions if there are any differences. That is exactly the methodology we recommend here, the Central Party, to be used, to find a mutual solution and a permanent exception. The Icelandic government should only make it clear to the European Union that this is a concern for Iceland and the nation, the public of the country, that it should be subject to the same procedure, and that's why we're going to get this release. With the Power Institute, it's just right around the corner. A senator, as well as the concern of the material, is now about to increase the monitoring fee on the nation's electric producers, which is likely to mean that it is entering the prices, so we are already seeing the impact of this, Madam President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u9	Madam President. In this speech, I intend to deal only with the development of the energy market in the European Union and how this development has to do with the major objective of the Union, which is evident in the third energy package and further in the fourth and fifths to be expected. The European Union is in a crisis, actually in many areas, but not least in energy sector. This is reflected in a lack of enough energy supply, especially environmental renewable energy, but the European Union has committed itself to greatly increasing the share of such energy in the EU over the next few years. The problem of the relationship is further added to that in Germany, people are disappearing from nuclear energy production, which has been a major factor in the production of energy in Germany for decades. They are now shutting down their nuclear plants one after another - in fact, importing nuclear energy from France, which is another story but perhaps telling their own story that this is often a bit of a paint. However, these countries in the European Union have a serious problem with obtaining enough environmental energy. Wind mills have been put out of the sky, caused Chinese people to produce the steel in the windmills of coal - corrosion there, and they did not then calculate it as greenhouse gas emissions in Europe. There's something we can put apart again. Because of this position, the European Union now has a lot to do with the link between the electronic energy system, especially those that have been isolated, to form an island, specifically called a respectable president, to link islands. We have seen this in the relationship between the European Union and the European Union, where Iceland is strongly encouraged to become connected with this electricity market and company in the United States. It is enough to include the conquest of the land. Jobs are not kept secret by connecting the country to the European electricity system. This is in the setting where a third energy package will be created here in the country. In other words, he is part of one of the biggest projects in the relationship, one of its main priorities. I recently mentioned in the anti-array that it is interesting to put this matter in context of issues that are far less important to the European Union, just a fraction of this, such as the import of the raw non-frosted meat and non-employed food, where, progressively, over and over again, was tried to weaken Iceland's defenses and force on - in actual force the Icelandic government - to authorize the import that we thought we have a reserve from the end of the EEA contract. Then we must ask ourselves, " Is the aim of the third energy package being accomplished? This is even more firm than in the case of food transport, which is the case with the preceding small European Union interests in comparison? ' As a result, it is incomprehensible that the Icelandic government intends to take the bait, so to speak, and to weaken its defenses regarding this capital resource, a resource that is the basis for a much of the work in the country and the welfare of the country, when it is obvious that this European Union is opening up the European Union's strength and can apply in its full priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I've thought about this evening's concerns because no one has ever been able to assure us that the method used to ensure that a case against Iceland will not be the case because of the induction taking place here, i.e. this is a way up on the table. No one has advised me to say that this approach is impossible to prevent any sort of compromise, whether the European Union itself. ESA, or individual or legalist. I would like to ask the senator if he had experienced any meetings or somewhere certain that this is not possible. I'd also like to ask the senator if he was at his meetings during a presentation on a pack of four energy. Now we've seen in Norway that there's been a review of a four-pack of energy, including some. claims that the Norwegian government had him look and wonder. A report prepared in Norway discusses a four - pack energy package. Regarding a pack of four energy, the import and export of electrical energy cannot be limited by national factors. I'm not asking why. Rather, I would like to ask if a four - pack of energy had been introduced or crossed over. A senator owns his meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u11	Madam President. I've been unable to be sure that you couldn't hit -- or at least Trying to get ahold of it - that there would be an electrical exchange between Iceland and the European Union, on the contrary. It will also be helpful to look again at the comparison of meats called meats, since it is the position of the Icelandic government and our defenders in the matter that the ESA and the EU are simply wrong. Nevertheless, we are subject to it, for it seems that the government is going to do so, that of this wrong conclusion. In this matter, it was in fact that the European community would be used in this way. Why should it not be the same with people as these energy issues are becoming? And first what. A senator asks about the fourth energy package I have to admit that there has just been no discussion about him at this job all of the government's part of it, so we don't know, at the moment. Of course, members of Congress, which are extremely peculiar, especially in view of the fact that this is the case with the supporters of the case, that we must accept this third energy package because it is some kind of a result of the first and second energy package and some development of the past. Then there's got to be a direct review of the effect of the fourth energy package because they have this now to make an example that the fourth energy package must be approved when we agree with the third, i.e. first that it is the wish of the current government to accept the third one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator no doubt remembers a note written to the State Department some time ago - this is actually an old memo but mentioned -- where it says that one of the European Union's arguments for refusing to leave its leaves in the talks that occurred a few years ago, leaving a supply of energy pack three, they were that since Iceland had created a pack of energy so impressive and beyond the obligation that it was not a reason to provide access from a three energy package. In fact, they added that although Iceland was an isolated system, it was produced so much energy in Iceland that it was no longer considered an isolated system. This is an example that once you've done with your right finger, all your hands disappear. Once you've started swallowing the salamama sausage, you don't stop. That's what I'm most concerned about with the three energy package, that the step we're taking right now will lead to another step, etc. Eventually, the authority over our energy resources is different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u13	Madam President. This is exactly what we're looking at here. We can only imagine if, when the fourth energy package is introduced, the Icelandic government would have explained that the third energy package would have to be introduced because it had introduced the first. And first what. The senator mentioned this remarkable memo is quite correct that in that case a little piece of salameil was requested but decided that it would be all right to let the European Union have even larger slices than it requested. As a result, you now say: "Well, if you do so well last, don't do your best now, etc., when the next pack of energy is served, when the next piece of hot dog is cut.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. In the past, the EEA contract was beginning to sound out. I asked why. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson whether or not the cause of EEA and EB agreement on these warnings, i.e. The way they are currently making a choice might be their preconceived course and may be convinced that such a warning would not be held. In Norway, a three - pack of energy was created with eight warnings and including The Labor Committee agreed in Norway to introduce them to the premonition. Today, 15 months later, they have not been formally appointed, and Norwegians have declared that they were actually deceived to accept false charges. However, the energy law says that countries that approve the third energy package will become part of the EU internal energy market, whether the state is linked or not. That would be true for us Icelanders after the induction, since we are not connected. There is, therefore, strong evidence that the exception that has been declared by those in charge should actually come into existence on the joint EEA committee. But I'd like to ask you, if Iceland didn't want to do that from the introduction of the third energy package in the case of the joint EEA Commission, before it was sent home to treat the region, i.e. before it was presented in the council arrangement for what we have considered? And if it was, what were the reasons why we would not be excluded when it has been declared that we are, yes, an island and are not connected?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u15	Madam President. First of all, it's a question of difficulty. The senator's decision on whether the European Union might be taken lightly is that the Council accepts the so - called warning because he realizes that it will not be held, they will have nothing to do with it. Yes, Madam President, I believe, at first, very likely. Second, I think it's probably just a little fun. They feel that the Icelandic government is going on this expedition with the methods that have been called praiseworthy deception by European Commission supporters, that they have, I imagine, if I know men in Brussels, I know a lot of them, a little bit of this fun, that it can do it to get the case done by the government. Hv. In fact, there is a member of this room on a subject I intend to make a subject for my next talk and therefore wait for much, but I would like to mention that just because of the situation in Norway, where their next talk has not been handled, you have a feeling that the European Union, including, has been a failure. In Norway, fear that if the case gets settled again in the joint of the EEA Committee, it will also give the Norwegians a chance to bring it right. Maybe then I'll come to the answer to the last question why. Council member: No, I have not received any explanation for why the government did not achieve or attempt to make a reply to the joint EEA committee, nor do I have an explanation for that, if there is a hearing in the so-called notice, why could it not be sent to the joint EEA committee and receive the warning there in the form of a release.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I came in for a reason. As you can see, I have been standing here in the symposium several times, asking different members of the council and different speakers the same questions to ask for specific answers. But there's something big. I even had it. a conversation with an assistant minister of foreign affairs in a side room earlier today and asked what was being put on notice. The answers were on the way that the warnings were directed solely to our constitution, i.e. That the introduction, if I understood correctly, would have to be in line with the constitution. It would really not be a warning to hand over the government per se, so we did not lose it to the international institutions, but were being given a warning that we could pass it through in view of the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this a normal hearing for the induction of the EEA types? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator whose experience is considerably more experienced in the administration and as a member of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u17	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u18	Madam President. That was interesting. In spite of all of this, it will become clearer gradually. How interesting it was to hear that interpretation from the management team today! Men have been looking a little bit out and south on this notice, the board of directors, but now we are told that this is really just a continuation procedure for the constitution. However, the members of the State Department made it clear that what the legal warnings would need to be that the induction did not occur, it would not take effect. This is where we look at how you're going to enter, let the energy package take effect right away, but with these comments. And first what. A senator asks if I knew that this was the way it was originally made: No, I don't, and it didn't actually make any members of the committee. This is going to be unique.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u19	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Here I have all the reviews that came to the State Department in this big and important case. It's a big, thick book. Here's an interesting review that a company posts in called Vallor. If I quote this review only, by permission of the president, it says here: It is not relevant to any country at all. The management of our energy resources is entirely Icelandic national, and all the rules for them to take the initiative of Icelanders and according to the needs of the Icelanders. Then it says: To reject this energy package completely, all council members are encouraged to reject it. [...] Nationalization is an all - out giant in the Icelandic energy market, with massive power in the national administration system. [...] Land activation has not substantiated the view that all EU energy package should be agreed and that it will be in favour of the turnaround cable. [...] In an effort to make peace, the government presents a law that says that no cable will be laid except by the approval of the Generals. Then, with the permission of a president, it goes on to say: As a result of the anticipated energy exchanges, the world's root business will change faster in the years ahead than some examples since the early days of the industrial revolution. Therefore, there is now a special reason for a nation of its own to be very careful and to remain independent in their energy issues. This review says, and the law says that a cable will be placed only with the approval of the Generals: [[The president calls.]] ▪ On the other hand, these laws will be removed as soon as national activations feel suitable for selling energy through a sea cable. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a guess. The senator on this, that the law will be taken away when he considers nationalization suitable for the company. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u20	President wants less of it. Councilmen are again to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u21	Madam President. This is certainly something to worry about. We will likely be able to imagine the nature of the support that would be in due time. We've heard enough phrases here about the importance of developing abroad and being open and that those who have any doubts about anything that the EEA Treaty is isolationists, and so on. We can imagine how humans would approach it if they were to change this in their own time. But there's something else I'm worried about. It is that in view of the aims of the third energy package, people can simply turn around or attempt to eliminate obstacles to the fixture of a cable. Of course, we have experience with the work of ACER, a joint energy agency in the European Union. It is designed to remove such obstacles. Why, then, should men in such a high priority of the European Union not be tested if they could not be helped by this institution? But it is also interesting about this advance or one of these alleged warnings, there have been some gathered to mention a warning, that the directives to set into the electron law that the Allied Council refers to the fixation of a cable are actually just repetition of a provision for which the Council is assumed to represent the fundamental mechanisms of electricalization in Iceland, including sea cables, of course. Only a new provision is added, which, of course, says the same thing, suggests that it is done by a certain virtual act rather than that it is considered to have some significant effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u22	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him that in these matters the natural objective of this joint institution, ACER, to oversee this, is to eliminate obstacles. Then there is the danger that in a short period of time, Iceland has set up barriers that involve the law that will not be laid by sea cables, that it may be considered an obstacle. That's exactly what I think. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson came in handy here in his speech. It is very likely that the European Union will view the actual warnings we put out of the picture and therefore their plans may follow that this will be a common energy market in which Iceland will be involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u23	A respectable president. It's only enough to read about the meaning of the ACER. Sometimes you wonder whether even the contents of the third energy package or the work of ACER were involved in this issue. It makes clear that when some people think that they have funds and are interested in connecting the power market, working toward these goals of the third energy package, they are able to control governments or energy institutions, a type of ACER subsidiary that will become its appeal immediately inform ACER of interest so that the ACER can monitor the progress of the situation, and that there are no barriers to such projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u24	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make up the subject of the future energy policy, i.e. to discuss: What then? We've only come into it, but I think we need to take that discussion a little further. Here, the executives and followers of the energy package from government opposition have striven to kiss themselves and others for a great and good job done. I don't think I'm gonna interfere with the fact that people have been working. But I have to say, there would have been a lot more work to do on this. I'd like to make up the subject of a report that has just been put in here, which is published in the November 12 issue of this magazine. In Norway a recent report on what is called the facts of EU energy systems, industry, and energy prices is being compiled. The report in the original - language text is based on research and documented data. By permission of the president, even. in the report: ... shape of the law frame for the European joint energy network is now complete with a energy package of 1, 2, 3 and 4. So went on December 2018 as agreed in the EU. This fourth package has been sent to Norway's government in view of its entry into the EEA agreement following the approval of the Council of Energy Package 3 at the beginning of the year. However, it is dependent on the fact that Iceland also accepts energy input form 3.◯ This report confirms the overwhelming authority of the ACER. The most important effect of the approved energy package must be that Norway must be taken up as a market in the European Union. The induction of three and four energy bags means huge investments in sea cables and other lines, estimated to be $140 billion, is listed in the report - up to 2040. This is regardless of whether excess amounts are available in Norway to feed them strings or not. It involves what I was discussing earlier about the transport network, whether we need to live up to the commitment that if the demand comes, we need to build a transport net. It is clear that large increases in pressure will occur in regions such as Iceland and Norway, to more active to feed these energy exchanges in Europe. I think it's in the middle of nowhere. According to this report, the energy prices in Norway and likely it would also do so here in Iceland and countries such as Norway and Iceland would lose the competitive advantage we have today because of the increase in energy prices. That's something we need to be aware of, then, because we have an enormous amount of industry and production in this country that is highly dependent on energy and especially on environmental energy, since it is actually a product of itself when it comes to foods produced by environmental energy. This same report says, with permission of the president: ▪... [that] industrialized, all under favorable energy prices, such as paper industry and metal industry, may fall off and 12,000 people, especially in the country, can lose their jobs. This parallel effect is thought to result in 30,000 additional losses. Thus, the joint energy network in Europe is a major threat to industry in Norway. We must be able to wonder here if the same thing could not be true here in Iceland. It is clear that the aim of the ACER is to ensure a full network of connections, not just within the energy system, but in the following part of the fourth and fifth packages: This is where we begin to talk about the European supergap, since we have even begun to associate with other continents. According to a news report recently read on the Internet, the building of the fifth energy package, it is referred to as switching this into an area, not what is called an independent state, but a region. Then, in reality, the authority we feel is still further diluted. You might assume that this is also true here in Iceland, i.e. that we would be defined as a region, possibly with Norway or someone else, and that might make us go even farther than we are doing here. [[The president calls.]] I see I'm done with my time, and I can't get through this talk. I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u25	President. I thank the senator for his speech. It is important to look at the whole thing and to take into account what we know about the future. A senator did here on a fourth energy pack - and even further. What I would like, however, to ask the senator is that I am correct, for I feel that it has not been done well enough in my discussion today, that whether we associate with Europe or not with an electrical cable, with a cord, or somehow, we are installing a pack of three. We are ensuing what is in these types by taking the way we are going now. The string is one, but the effect of the energy package or the type of action to introduce it is that we are taking all this burning into Icelandic just by going this way we are going and not getting a release. We're taking steps toward more intervening the market. Which, then, leads me to the thought as of sleep. A senator made up of the report prepared in Norway, whether it is normal then, in view of the fact that we are taking it through skin and hair, also predicting that it is also foretold and trying to look at the effect of the fourth energy package, which seems to be flying somewhere in Norway, and you hear that it is with some stakeholders in Iceland also for introductions. What's he gonna do when he hits a pack of three? What, then, have we taken a big step into the European energy market?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. What steps have we taken with the induction of a three energy package against the energy bags that follow? I have to say, based on the information I have, and they may not be sufficient, I see no better than that, by bringing a pack of energy three, we may be taking the biggest step of all, i.e. We agree with a pack of energy that we are part of the European Union's internal market, the European Union's energy market, whether we are connected or not. What follows will only increase the pressure on the link and coordination of the electrical power price and that we bring in even more types. As I briefly entered my talk earlier: With this induction, it becomes harder and harder to resist. If we really want to have custody at this, if we don't want to hand over this government, as many times have been observed by everyone who has held talks here, whether they have been there or opposed, we should put down our heels and turn down this pipeline and make sure that if a cable is laid on our terms and on our grounds alone; that we can make a decision about it, and when we believe that it will benefit Iceland if we sell energy on the ocean cables, we can do it in the future and not on the basis of other Europeans that need more pure energy to feed their industry or produce.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u27	President. I wonder why I wonder why. A senator is the fact that we are already applying certain rules set by the European Union and we are already in charge of how we operate with products of energy. Now, the EFTA, ESA, monitoring department has made us offer out or look for ways to go on new ways to renew energy contracts. It even builds it. to a service order which we are in. As a result, it is tempting to conclude that there is yet another step in adopting more rules and other types from the European Union that we are even more giving up some kind of authority or power to a national institution, whether ESA or anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u28	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator again. I have a feeling this place is pitching for one night. I can't protect myself from thinking that some kind of pressure was put on the Icelandic government to get it through quickly and safely, with good or evil. And why do I say that? Yes, because for one thing, we Icelanders have no reason to put it through. But there may be a hurry, including the situation. The more important countries are being allowed access to the energy available here. And as for the renewal of new contracts, I think it's quite clear that there will be some sort of lawsuits that will follow if it is not performed by the European Union's rules. Me and the Icelanders can't claim that we have absolutely custody of ourselves, that we can just continue this in our possession and use of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, for a fine speech. There are two things I would like to introduce to the senator's talk. First, it focuses on what he mentioned regarding the construction of industry. There he was discussing Norway in particular, and the effects that humans envision, raising electricity prices, and other rules for electricity sales, especially on the region, if understood the driving force. A senator is correct. This gives you reason to think about how the senator envisions the possibility of evolution at home, on the other hand, at the time of induction, and at the end of a link whenever it happens. It is one of the struggles that skeptics of the induction of the third energy package have, inland prices, and that many of the national markets will actually be forced into some panEuropean price by connecting with foreign markets. What can the senator see? Now I know that he is brought up near agrienvironmental activity, that surrounds his entire home area - is he concerned about the construction and maintenance of that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason very much for his inquiry. That's what I was going to keep talking about, i.e. the development of industrial development, or the end of it, which may be a serious matter. The competitiveness of industry and production in Iceland is based on economic energy prices. It's not based on our presence at the market. It does not depend on our presence at natural resources, such as. fainting. It's mainly based on the fact that there's cheap energy here that makes Iceland competitive. We can imagine that, with the coordination of electric prices in Europe, being north of the Atlantic Ocean in Iceland is not going to be an advantage, because energy prices there will be the same as they will be in Germany. This will be more likely to include production that is closer to larger markets, closer to extensive transport systems, such as harbors, and closer to natural resources. Whether it is necessary to produce or replace fully supplied products, companies will be much better located in Europe than in Iceland. And then we have to ask ourselves, " What will happen to us in Iceland? ' How will we handle this? A vast number of jobs will be lost here, I think that's perfectly clear. This may sound like some prophecy of the world, but I think it's a good idea to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u31	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think this is just a core point of the discussion in terms of the domestic market and the current industry. Practical energy prices are the competitive precursors of modern industry compared to a competitive European company and even though we were looking in the other direction. If the competitive fate of an enterprise gets worse, either the situation, with unforeseeable results, or that governments have one way or another to return it. We here know how difficult it is to establish a simple reduction in insurance costs, which I consider to be a fair matter in terms of the company's environment. See what? A senator realizes that the principle of competition that is lost by a higher electrical price will be replaced in another way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u32	V.E.G. President. I once again thank the senator for his inquiry. Whether the loss of competition will be replaced in another way is difficult to determine. I am not psychic or bare-eyed, that I may predict it precisely. But many might argue that it's no big deal because at this time, we'd be getting so much of the electricity, where the money would come from. However, by means of the induction of these types, land induction will likely have been replaced with an inheritance, and it will be to some extent or may come into the hands of a private member. At that time, the profit will come to them, not to the people. Then we can ask ourselves, " What is the point of working if we are going to lose our jobs, hand over the government? ' So, what are we going to do about our energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Þóðdirsson for his speech. I decided in his case that he spoke of rapid evolution in the field of energy sources and there discussed wind power plants and other sources. I just want to start by pointing out how rapid evolution has really been in recent decades. Not long ago, not even 100 years ago, we Icelanders were right to take the first steps to harness the fallen waters. I know a little bit about it in Thermalfells, where streams were harnessed to many towns using engine items from coastal ships. There were quite good men and clever men in building these home-real stations. It's been a decade. We are much farther in this regard. I want to ask you why. A senator who thinks evolution will be, for example. if we just talk about sea cables. Of course, it's very expensive today. Technology is moving really fast. The guards are dropping. Suppose, as it is not amazing, that progress will be so rapid that within a few years it will be far less expensive and much easier - how will he see the future, perhaps within five or ten years, if this would be half as high as cost and then be much less expensive? What kind of future could he envision regarding the laws we are here dealing with?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the question. It is true that evolution has been an enormous arrow, and for example, it has reduced the price of windpower at approximately one level. half in about ten years, which can be considered significant. It's fun that the senator only introduced where we started. It was only the 100 years since we actually harnessed the falls waters. It's nice to remember here that it was just among the Coreskers brothers with Lommen, dancing pocket engineering books, and using their arms to build water supply brushes. In fact, they did not read Danish themselves. They did so by the mistress, and it translated out the book for these methods so that they could use the water supply. We will see where we are today, from the time men worked in such circumstances, trying to harness the town brook in what we are doing today in major operations. I think that the short answer to that question is simply that technology throws forward. I've watched it myself in the areas I've been working in in the 1920's, that for example, turban engines that are just different forms of the turban - technology have so far advanced as we have improved our efficiency of the energy we are harnessing there. I have no reason to believe that electricity will not be the same. The short answer, then, is that all of this will probably happen even faster than we realize here. We're just of the generation that we've seen this trend, including in our relationship with the Internet, satellite contact, and so on. I think it's safe to say that this development will probably be a major success and will come to us sooner than we can imagine right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u35	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his excellent answers. Speaking of evolution, I'd like to add what I said earlier. Not long ago, Iceland and I hardly knew vegetables. Not many decades ago. And what brought us good things other than the fallen energy, the warmth, and its light? It just happened after the middle of the last century. We can start cultivating vegetables and eating them, and we need not just pick up fools and solos but buy a beautiful flower. It's all because of the electricity, and it's not that long ago. This rapid development takes place very fast, and I would like to ask the later senator if Europe's regional division has something to do with this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u36	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his inquiry. It is true that this trend has brought us very good things, such as. Because we've been able to go to the store, but a part of our ability to go to hotwood is another source of energy that is a geothermal. It was first used for house warming in my country, in the Valley of Smoke. It is also used in greenhouses to maintain heat, but electricity is used to describe the growth of vegetables. I think we can all thank you for not having to eat seaweed and cans so we don't get scurvy. We can eat vegetables. I think the regionalisation is going down. A senator asks us to speed up this trend so that before we can turn back, we will not become an independent, sovereign state when it comes to energy, but we will be under some regional vessel, where a simple greater part of the speech rather than the authority we now have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u37	Mr. President. I'm going to speak in this speech, which is the third of this Parliament's resolution, to talk about the legal warning and other related events and to begin by considering the induction procedure of EU Regulations. First, there are new regulations set up on the European Environment Agency assembly set up by the joint EEA Commission, made up of representatives for both EU contracts, i.e. European nations, those in the European Union itself, and the EFTA nations, including the Icelanders. Thus, in the scene of this committee, it is wondered whether the above principle is addressed and accepted in these meetings, whether the nations feel that it is going straight into their legal environment and whether we want to, now or needs to, introduce the rules. If the EFTA nations believe that something in the rule-making process must be introduced through a flaunting process, as they say, i.e. That the EFTA countries, one or more, put a administrative notice about the types. This warning is lifted here in Iceland by the resolutions, which in itself may be a controversy and debate over the mechanism of action, in which the synonyms are less than laws in many ways than in many ways, both in the conduct of the council, but also in the absence of a legal basis by the President of the Republic or his signature in terms of Congress. It's a matter of debate. But this has been the case. As soon as it is completed and this council resolution has come to pass, we are bound by national rights - for what? So that legislation in this country does not conflict with the rule behind it. We are bound to have Icelandic laws, whatever names they might call, do not go against the rule. As soon as all EFTA countries have lifted these warnings, the regulations are implemented in the Annex to the EEA Convention. Then EFTA countries, including Iceland, have the obligation to change the law to work in harmony with the regulations so that it works here on land, i.e. If, in any way, a law in this country contradicts the principle, we are required to change the law. We are obliged to do so once these warnings have been removed. Now we're dealing with a rule set out here in one pack called a three-pack of energy. And how different is there in that case compared to the traditional example I used above? How different is it in the case of a pack of three energy and the progress I just described? The answer is: Absolutely nothing. And what can be said about the legal advance that we hear so much of the executives talking about? What can be said about him in this context? Is it possible for the government to give such a warning? The answer is no, because the only effective warning is to release us from the individual regulations or legislation of the joint EEA committee. They go through a process available in the EEA Convention. Any idea, Mr. President, which wakes up in individual countries that the law of law is somehow different from the text, is of no value. Even if people go further and say that they understand laws in one way or another, and they actually declare that they do, that is also of no value. And even if individual European leaders claim to agree that the lawgiver has a specific influence in certain countries, this is also of no value. And finally: Although individual countries make this law in their own country, they are worthless if they go contrary to the original rule and the State has committed itself to ensuing. What am I saying? After all, Mr. President, there is no warning here. And what has been pointed out is actually just an domestic bridge. In this regard, you think about things. So why is it that they are talking about legal matters as important as they are? Why are you doing this? I have to say, as it looks, here is some sort of verbal talk, and in order to dust people's eyes, that these terms on legal matters matter, which they don't really do. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the president to put me back on the rosary. I'm not halfway there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u38	It is true that the senator will make an answer that has been requested.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u39	President. I thank the senator for a powerful and good speech in which a senator makes a very clear review of the process that must go through to introduce it into Icelandic rights. What I want to ask you is why. A senator to: Isn't it so, according to his conclusion, that, in fact, it doesn't really matter what this company says, at its induction we become part of the EU energy market or the EEA, whether we have a string or not? We become members of this market further by ensuing these types as suggested here, making sure that there's some kind of notice here in the home bridge. Then it is important to also answer it in such a way as to be absolutely clear, that although we put some law in Iceland regarding the induction or any interpretation of the European Community or the law in the EEA, at the time of EFTA Court, or is it the European legislation that applies? Suppose some legal case against the United States has not properly introduced these actions or has prevented or failed to fulfill its obligations, e.g. The order of service, or any of the four freedoms, that the matter is, expected, for the EFTA Court, and not for the Icelandic courts - and what law is there? Is it not the European Union or the European Union law that applies there? Then I'd like to agree with that. A senator, of course, is that warning in itself nothing more than a wording or a beautiful word on a piece of paper, for it is only for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the questions. He asks about the introduction to Icelandic rights and the warning and the interaction, or rather the conflict, which could possibly occur at the European Court if Icelandic law conflicts with these types or rules of the European Union. If there is no string, there are obviously not many factors involved in the work of order. Of course I would think so. But we are open and vulnerable to anything that might arise, because we have introduced it. Even if we have someone to warn, some separation that the Allied must accept the cable, etc., which is, in fact, in many cases, that there are all kinds of agreements for all kinds of projects in this country, so that there is nothing new in itself - but as soon as there are some differences and some case takes place, we have an example. We have an example of this about the barren meat. Of course, as soon as a crash occurs and someone draws his right to the United States, the main focus is to see if these rules have been introduced. And if the ones that we're about to do have been introduced now, and that's why we're here in the Alllis symposium - there's no turning back. It is most likely that we will lose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u41	President. This is very important to bear in mind. Once we've finished, there's no turning back. You see, it's like 7th C.E. The EEA Convention, I think, is certain to be, speaks of the harmony and homologous interpretation of the existing rules, so it is actually written that the law and the rules should be made in a certain way so that they are interpreted as everywhere in the area where this is supposed to apply. As a result, no legal interpretation can be asked by any Icelandic law or by a version of it to European courts. If we are to do so, we will need an exception from the entire Bible, from the whole package, which, of course, is the one thing. What I wanted to ask you, too. A senator in question is, Is it really not, then, that by ensuing this process, we are taking steps to introduce the ideologies and tools and the goals of the third energy package - and at the same time the ideologies, goals, and tools that this institution, ACER, has to control? Even if ESAs produce some kind of intermediate, it is clear that ACER will supervise the ESA's procedures, and that is, in fact, a written process to do so. But what we are taking now is that not one step in which we are being led further and deeper into the European Union law code and the aim of a joint energy market? The step we take today will draw us closer to the fact that we have to take the next step too, the fourth energy package, etc., in order to be able to live up to what is in step 7. The EEA Convention, to ensure uniformity and coordination. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions and meditation. He spoke of a consistent and uniform interpretation of the Treaty and the Regulations of the European Union. That is correct, and we know it from previous cases, this is clear in the light of harmonizing the area. We've noticed that. Regarding what might happen, "Maybe nothing will happen, maybe just nothing will happen. " I think the executives have spoken a little bit about the fact that there's not going to be anything going on, there's no danger. No one's going to lay a cable. You guys talk a little like that. Maybe you're just right. Maybe nothing will happen and everything will be quiet for a long time. It may be that this is correct and that nothing will happen, perhaps for five years or ten years. But what I just wrote in my last talk is that we've already made it, and we can't escape it. So, as soon as there's a conflict, as soon as there's a problem, I don't have a plan to imagine what could happen and I'm not going to do any sort of thing about it, but as soon as someone presents up a conflict and sues us because he's obviously not at all at our interpretation or about the energy package, we're going to face the risks we're taking by bringing in this, with these warnings that are mentioned, which, of course, are just very sick and will have no value and will fall along the way of trying. Because the lyrics of the book are written. What some energy managers say in 2019 is just a moment in comparison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech. That's an interesting discussion. I have in front of me a decision made by the European Commission No. 93/2017, from May 5, 2017, and it is a bit interesting to pay attention to the wording used. 1st index: The European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 of July 13, 2009, to establish the energy market's Cooperative Management Board's Cooperative Management Board. This is the regulations we do not pretend to introduce. These are ten - number numbers, and in eight of these words are used, the rolls belong to the pen, i.e. No slips will be left over there. We're going to bring these types in. And as you get more involved in this, it seems quite morning to realize that if what I have received from the State Department is correct, the defences are in charge of the constitution, i.e. To us really, so that we can introduce, so that we are not breaking the constitution, it is quite clear that it is not about the induction itself, i.e. It is intended to fully implement these regulations. The regulations of the Regulation are: It's all kind of a mess. As to this agreement and the adjustment, it says here, by permission of the president: The EFTA monitoring strategy shall be adopted immediately, on the basis of the Agency's view, in accordance with the opinion of the Agency, (i.e. ACER - ◯ has agreed on its own initiative or at the request of the EFTA monitoring centre; How does that make sense? A senator? Is it possible for the senator to consider whether we can or cannot enact these regulations as they are stated? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the questions. He asks us if we have a choice or not. Yeah, I think so. I think we just still have a chance in this case. Many speakers here, both today and before the weekend, have pointed to this option, which is only in the contract of the EEA itself, 102. g., saying that if any nation rejects, the differences or comments can be reimbursed to the joint EEA committee, where we would get clear of our cases and there would be coverage there, possibly based on arguments brought up by the management department itself, that there is no slang cable here. Just that, in fact, the European nations and the EFTA nations might just accept that we are apostatized to the very extent of Regulation 713 and possibly some more of the rules we have most to address. This is the most natural thing in the world. Why are people so shy about going that way? They say, "She's never been gone before." Then I heard in one of the directors here in the speech and whiskers. A senator was pretty crazy when he said, "We'll definitely use 102. gr. when needed. Maybe there's a kid in a speech chair up here, but you don't have the guts to use it when you need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Senator. Right, but now it's necessary, an old saying is an old saying. I understand that if we don't lead in and go to the joint EEA committee, we have a real choice. But if we go the other way and go in, we're at the place I described earlier in the previous answer, i.e. That we have, let's do it, there's no way. It says here in this same decision for the joint EEA committee that I was reading from earlier on, with the permission of a president: When the Agency prepares the EFTA for use in accordance with this Regulation, they must inform the EFTA monitoring department. The latter must set up a delay that the EFTA authorities have to give their opinion on the matter, taking full note of the urgency and complexity and possible consequences. The EFTA authorities may request that the EFTA monitoring agency make its decision for review. The EFTA monitoring facility should send this request to the Agency. If this is the case, the Agency should consider preparing new levels for the EFTA monitoring agency and replying without an unfortunable delay. I ask them, has it been done? Have such cases been sent to get a new opinion? If we were to do so, would that be a better way? I just can't see, you know. President, this is the right way to go. And I can't see, top dog. Mr President, the argument that this wasn't done before is something that is involved. At any rate, no one has been able to tell why or what threats are in order to become a political riot here if we go this way. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he feels that it is possible to go unable after induction if they are not able to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I'm not an expert in Europe's rights, and I don't know how this is going to happen on the island for the joint EEA Commission or the rest of the rule or in any detail, not at all. But I am aware that now we stand at that point and the crucial moment that we are here to choose. We're choosing to introduce the principle, the third energy package, as it is available, in its entirety. Once we've finished, there's no going back. On the other hand, if we choose not to do so, we can do what I mentioned earlier, i.e. ... togo back to the EEA joint committee. And that's the way of the deal in the law that I mentioned earlier, so I think it's obvious in this case. It is not necessary at all to withdraw national warnings in this case, thereby granting the decision of a joint EEA committee the legal value in this country. This is not necessary at all. Just because everyone compares, both those who have spoken against this matter and by saying that these laws are not relevant to the country and are not relevant for the current situation. Everybody agrees on this. Why, then, should we not just use this used route that is found in the contract itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u47	President. I'd like to ask you a little bit about whether we're taking on any further obligation beyond what we have today by introducing the third energy package. I think the answer to that must be positive, because no matter what this agent says, we'll be a larger part of the EU energy market, whether we're connected with an electrical cable at any time or not. This induction does it. Then I'd like to mention something else. In the process in which the EFTA, ESA, and the European Union's ACER are presented, it is clear that ACER is of great importance to the results that may be reached. As I have understood these rules, these two parties are really obliged to reach a common outcome, but in any case it seems that ESAs need to accept interpretations and orders from the ACER. But I'd like to come in somewhere else too. In my case today, my main concern is that I am concerned that we are gradually taking further steps to desecrate ourselves from power or influence toward the European Union. I'd like to mention something that I did a little bit earlier today, a lecture delivered in Akureyri. There is a man named Max Baumgart, who has a long list of degrees and jobs from European universities. He reasons that if we assume that the European Union's treaties can only be attacked with the will and approval of the Icelandic government, it can be reasoned that the regulations for free trading in the EU Convention require Member States to improve their transport systems. This is based on the fact that the free exchange with electricity will be ensured only by an adequate transport system. So it is not a last shot that Iceland will simply be made to connect with this market according to the speculations of this scholar. It is also important that he says that the Community's interpretation of increased fusions places such obligations on Member States. I think we have to answer that question permanently, if it is possible that what this wise scholar claims to have an impact on the country, the conditions may arise that we must simply connect with a European energy market. If we don't at least have to accept it or decide if I've derived from this, that we're giving more power from ourselves, that's what we need to stop and say, "This way, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. As the second energy directive is adopted, we introduce certain obligations and thus add more responsibilities to Iceland. The third energy pack is actually a continuation of that duty. So the question is, Will this continue? And at what point have we said here and no further? At what point do we say we have gone too far? It is painful if this time point occurs and may upset this contract. There is no need to do that while we have the means we have today, i.e. to redirect the case to the EEA joint committee and to have the Commission tested permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. He introduced it to the human tendency to give up more and more power, more and more pieces, to foreign institutions. Thus, the debate is a great issue that has developed so that authority on authority is actually linked to the fact that it is well defined and set out a language handed over each time. I'm sorry. Is it the last step we've had, or have we come to some limit so that humans have stopped going further? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u49	A respectable president. I think it's just fine to wonder if we have come to some degree in the matter of authority. If I remember correctly, I'm going to have a little warning about it, it's exactly the question that the Icelandic scholars have wondered about, that this which I call the Shulammite method can't go on indefinitely, in the end we've given it a great deal of power from us that we must say, "This way and no way." I think it's safe to say that that that time point is even now in terms of the energy package. I think if we take the steps we must take now at the induction of the third energy package, we will be very difficult to stand in the way of further sales when it comes to energy packet four, etc. We saw it in the induction of the number two energy directive that once we created it, we made it so impressive that our reasons do not hold against the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u50	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Counts 'em out. A senator of some odds that once we have received the European Union's greeting that we have introduced a second energy package with such a blowpipe and went far beyond what was required of us, the result will be that we do not use the source that is imprinted into 102. par.? Counts 'em out. A senator is likely to take advantage of 102 st. in a later stage when there is no reason to make use of it now, despite having serious doubts about the matter? There's been a flag - not even a flag - because warnings that men put their complete trust in seem hopeless and even the most hardy supporters seemed unclear where they were. [[The president calls.]] What is the senator's attitude toward this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u51	President. To me, there is no doubt that those who at least hold these matters will not avail themselves of the 102rd. The energy contract, if they don't right now. It becomes even more difficult for me to know that if you continue in this course, reasons why you should do so. It's going to be harder for me to argue that we should have some special access if we're to be outside this European energy market if we take this step we need to take now. I can't see it happening, it'll be at least Very difficult to argue with. Well, we don't know who will be in charge when it's possible, but as we do today, I'd say there's a very small chance that humans would test it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. With regard to this introduction from the EEA and the European Union, it is a long story and somewhat passed that it is spoken more and less in a way, i.e. It shall be the land of Iceland or the state of that which shall be appropriate. And everything about taking one step back or reviewing - there's something that's actually more and less on the hand of EFTA, or the EFTA monitoring agency or the ACER. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament: Does he believe that by means of this induction, we have arrived at that place, if the government does not intend to ignore him now, that he will be more involved once this has been entered into Icelandic rights? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u53	President. In fact, it can be understood that the European Union has its own announcements or actions, as the aim is to have as much resolve as to all to sit at the same table and actually follow the same rules. But I think it's perfectly clear that once something has been introduced into our rights, it's not going to be reversed. I've mentioned it, and I think I'm right about it being 7th. The terms of the contract, including it speaks of this self - determination and the need to ensure that the steps made must be made in a clear manner. It's a question we've wondered about whether people will want to use the 102 str. Later in the process, i.e. When you get a pack of four or five or something. So as in the past, I answer this question: I don't think people will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u54	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It's got a purpose. He is uniform, for everyone to sit at the same table. There is no special law for us Icelanders. Who simply tells us that the examples of those who have been put forward have no value. If they had, it would have been otherwise pronounced, and it would have been within them a warrant for enforcing, authority to sit at another table, authority not to be alone. Somehow, I have to wonder here again that at this induction, we have come to a point where it will not be reversed in energy matters. And we can see it in different parts of Europe. Now, for example. The French, 107 Parliaments there, have declared contrary to this legislation on the official provision of hydropower activation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u55	President. I must admit that, of course, one hopes that at some point members and/or even individual nations will rise and say, "Here and no further, when it comes to how natural resources are used or --how. A senator named France - the privatization of government companies. However, the European Union's aim is clear in the policies we have seen, whether it is the core or the highest authority in Brussels, that is, to develop the energy market on the grounds that this is a product and that the product should apply only certain rules, such as any product. And there is something special to see that Iceland and the current government, especially, should not hesitate to participate in further market use of energy resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. We know this by the EEA Convention that there has now been a number of developments that provide a basis for a wide variety of quality of life. They are deeply concerned that the treaty is being put at risk by making the legal way of asking for a release, which is very important to us. But what I wanted to ask you is why. For example, if we try to find a means of reconciliation in this matter, would it not be wise to postpone it until the next fall to get a better look at the subject? I don't think the people realize it or know it well enough. This has not been properly introduced to the nation. [[The president calls.]] Could it be a solution to this matter to try to postpone it until the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u57	President. I think the best solution in itself is to refer the case to the European Commission, where there would be an effort to communicate and to obtain access to Iceland at its introduction. There are lots of arguments, and perhaps a better argument today than before, for it should be reached. However, I do not resent the idea of postponing the case until autumn and trying to make more peace with it, using the time to converse with our well - meaning friends, who now seem to be understanding all of this, discussing some kind of application that would keep water better than this household model. I think it would be normal to go to the EEA joint committee. But the other doesn't make me feel excluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with that. A senator trying to do this legal thing, trying to obtain an exception that really matters to us. We have strong logic in this matter. We are not connected to the common European electricity market. That alone must be a very strong reason for receiving an exception. That's why there's something special about the government and the government groups that seem to be afraid that if we go this way, it'll upset the whole thing. I have to tell you right now, if you just sit around the table, on the European side, that when the evidence is so strong - we're not on this -- they have to understand it and look at it. And it's supposed to be tested for the Committee. [[The president calls.]] But I don't understand, Mr. President, this fear of the government parties in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u59	President. I'm more concerned that any talk about the resolution of the EEA agreement, such as this case, could somehow create an uncertainty about his future, is actually more likely to undermine it than to discuss whether we should use 102.g. Whether or not. We know that as soon as we begin to experience something as one - sided, or even some kind of terror, it doesn't usually go well with human beings. So I think we should stop talking like this is gonna upset the EEA deal. It's quite arranged and signed, and there's really no difference, that this is the legal way, to take the case back to the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u60	Mr. President. I'm at this point trying to understand what is called in one warning, the collective understanding of the EU secretary of state and the energy manager, which shows that Iceland's special status, an isolated distribution system, has a large part of the third energy package's rule of no value or realistic significance to the region. I'm wondering, where that's what I'm talking about. A senator has now been in the position of the minister of foreign affairs, that we do not know where this common understanding was born, whether he did it on a phone or on a sandwich and soda, coffee, and wine bread. The question is, Has such a uniform understanding shown by some legal entity? Is there a holding on to such a statement as a courtesy, coming up in the conversation between two people, either through a telephone phone or at a coffee shop?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u61	President. Of course, the declaration such as this has no legal significance. It has a political value when we discuss energy issues. I believe, however, that it has very little value when we consider the uniqueness of the market, the free flow of goods across the borders, and the like that we have already introduced into our rights, as with the service directive, for example, or the public shopping laws that we introduced in 2014. I think the statement is of very little importance, if anything. Those who manage other EU articles are completely free of charge. While it has no legal value, I can only see that it is a Witness primarily for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u62	Mr. President. I was just wondering. It has been under way during the discussion that there may be a chance that there would be a lawsuit that would be established on the contract we're going through. And I began to wonder what evidence in such lawsuits would have, i.e. Whether there was a holding, whether there was something there could be built on, if there was some protection in a possible lawsuit against us. So I would like to ask the senator again if he knows that such a common understanding, called, is new as part of a legal agreement between two parties, whether there are two countries or, as in this case, a country and an alliance of countries. Whether he thinks it has any meaning in itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u63	A respectable president. I think that by the time we get into the court, this is of limited significance. That's my food. We now saw in this so - called unfrost language that statements or warnings that we thought were really of very little importance there. Today, Icelandic scholars believe that the results of the EFTA Court may have been the same. Just being wrong. There is little we can do about that. I think it is absolutely necessary that we realize that at the time of the lawsuit, only the letter of the law is at hand. It's the law letter we're enforcing today. We're implementing a third energy package as it happens and taking on further commitments. I don't think there's anything to doubt about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u64	Mr. President. When I finished speaking earlier tonight in my first speech, I needed to have a word at my disposal. paritaprevir The Bogi of Hafliðason, a forwarder, who came here on a swamp film and raised some questions but then disappeared. However, I had promised to explain in a few words what he had here, mainly that by 2015 the council was adopted a change in electronic law by reference to the 22nd paragraph. the energy package we now deal with. This 22nd fart. was in itself a cognition of one of the energy packages where the switch to production and distribution is expected. That is why it was considered desirable for Iceland that we would set up this system plan so that electricity distribution could be better organized across the country. As noted, this is not unnecessary. And where it is. A senator asked me what had changed in my opinion and my opinion since then, and I promised him an answer in this speech, saying in two words: "Nothing. " There has been no change in my position or in our Middle Class in this regard. We simply picked up the 22nd floor. In 2015 to establish a system programme that was deemed necessary to build a national network for distribution. In this discussion, it has been tried to say that those who are now appointing the Central Party and who were formerly members of the Second Party, or third, changed their mind thoroughly and have tried to introduce this energy package in their time, and have now run away as dogs do from it. It's all wrong. As I say, nothing has changed in our position, in any way. We just took it in, and then it was over. But that's enough. However, it is an investigation, and perhaps it would have been good for this fine candidate of the Agency to explain to us the others - and I don't now talk about all the voters, or those voters after the party - why the party of the Agency's party is running from a platoon program that should not be given authority over our energy to foreigners. There, the party has completely turned around, making a 180 degree turn. The same can be said of the party of Independence Party, which has run from the U.S. Congress, which was in itself in the same way. What does that mean? This means that wherever you go, you meet people who have previously chosen these categories that say, "No more. " If this is going to be accepted, I and the Independence Party, or me and the forward party, depending on who you're talking to, split up. Of course, it is very sad that these members of Congress, both of them, seem not to hear anything that happens here outside the house. And as I said tonight, although not a lot of people have been out here today, and not a lot of people on Saturday are still representatives of people who don't usually come to protest. It's a quieter thing that makes things work, but now it's enough. These people too are deeply involved in community media. Well, there's 14,000,15,000 signatures from Our Power, etc. Of course, these people are speaking up, of course. Of course, these people rely on the classes they chose to hold their heads in this matter. Sadly, though, that does not seem to be the case. A lot has been said about the opinion of lawyers, mainly two. But I just want to kill on the opinion of a good lawyer named Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, who is a lawyer at LLM. In a very good article in the morning newspaper, he says, for example, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: Then there will also be further considered, and particularly at the World Hallis Coordinators, which will lead to a further inspection of the Agency's activities, whether it is the result of its introduction to the United States. - i.e. The EU type - ◯ in this situation is according to an Icelandic constitution. He says that this garment is flimsy but interesting, since it carries uncertainty. He says here, with permission from the President: It can be seen that the legal prefect includes questionable legal aerosolism and an uncertainty over the follow-up of the EEA Convention but is to be warned that by the induction of the production of the Agency, Iceland can become part of the internal energy market. This includes a hall for government and administrative applications and at the General Assembly to demand further information on the induction. That's exactly what we've been trying to do here all this hour. But Eyjólfur continues, with permission of Presidents: A test for electrical exchange across borders is not said to have meaning here. However, he later says in the article that rejection of the third energy package will not upset Iceland's membership with the EEA Convention. By permission of the President: The Parliament's proposal must be rejected by the Parliament and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such procedures do not threaten participation in the EEA Treaty, fully ending in accordance with its regulations. That's exactly what we've been holding out all this discussion. Eyjólfur will continue, with the permission of the President: ▪ Fear of such things is a dangerous partnership. A large part of the third energy package is not valid for Iceland, as the EU Energy Director and Foreign Minister have declared, and it is important that it be made up of the joint EEA committee's decision. Another point we've been asking, Central Class and Class of the People, that the EEA itself publishes such a statement. The Agency will not be able to reach another understanding, since its members will sit in charge of the Minister and Department of Energy; Iceland's ambassadors, Norway and Liechtenstein EFTA and the representative of the European Commission. This would be the first time in the 25-year history of the EEA Convention, which the administrative officiating officer would be used, and the case referred back to the Committee, for the first time intended to transport Iceland's major natural resources to the national and regular activities of the EU internal energy market, which is not part of it. I say, Madam President, could this be any clearer? I don't think so. Can this be said to mean that it cannot be understood? I don't think so. This opinion of a good lawyer rests in my opinion exactly on the reasons we've had in this discussion from the beginning, the need to test the whole contract. As he says: Fear of trying to do so is a dangerous partnership. You have to ask me if it's 102. wouldn't be there, if it were unnecessary, she wouldn't be part of this deal. It is assumed that this will occur, that the state will return to the joint committee in terms of opinion, a process of reconciliation, a conclusion coming from the joint committee, not one side of the country, which is not worth what we have seen in the raw unheated meat business. This, Madam President, is the core of the media and the group of the people we've been keeping here all along. It's a pleasure when men of this club, respected lawyers, give all the support we've held throughout the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, which was so shaken up as his hope and direction. I have to agree with it. A senator came in, it's quite remarkable that in the council hall, nine members of the Central Party have mostly spoken against this energy package. You would experience this, as if a group of members with an almost 11% vote did not have many members in the community, but the experience is quite different. I agree with that, I meet people of all categories who I usually disagree with in politics, and the answers are on one side. The people talk of fraud to the Party's policy, fraud to make promises. That may not be without reason because, in this field, i.e. In the sale of Allalgis, as well as in other places, have these companies, i.e. The government groups, repeatedly published that they will not take the steps suggested to make the ladder here. I must say that every career in this case is a lack of moisture. Senators have not striven to present a talk chair and follow the case along with reasoning or to answer the questions or doubts presented here. I would like to ask you a question. A senator who now has quite a few experiences in the matter: Is it unusual, when, with good or evil, to be courted in this way, to take less baptism during the discussion, and if it is not worth a single Mass after following the case, it continues to be cremated in confidence that the matter will be accepted by the forced more?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u66	V.E.G. President. Now I do not intend to argue that the amount of payment that is now being forced through is common. Yet, I suppose it happened a few times in my own time, not so much of a process. A man's done it a few times. Extraction like this, i.e. The payments that have resembled this have all in common been ill and have been harmed, evil for land and nation. What I don't understand is the fear of the government parties taking advantage of the tools and opportunities in the contract, i.e. 102st. I do not understand the lack of courage to take back this one step, the sound warnings that we Icelanders need to take instead of having some hairy place in some common sense of warning that may not be found, but a hanging in a Regulation to use probes after setting. It's like tearing the door open and then going to a court order or putting in the Regulation of the drag that comes in and the cold that enters the house. I just don't understand why men don't have the courage to take steps that we have the right to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I've been watching national and political talk for some time, even though I'm wet behind my ears in terms of standing here. But it's a known technique to get things through. My feeling is that this may be used, not in important matters, but in matters that are more important - what should we say? - The dominant board of directors is important, but it might be possible to correct in late stages. But this is such a matter that it cannot be corrected in late stages because we owe it to the nation to national rights. So we don't change it in here at the Council. Does a senator believe that there are many examples of this methodology in the matter that might be comparable to what is being discussed here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u68	V.E.G. President. I will not be quick to think that a case of this magnitude, with its consequences, has been run through the council in such a flabby manner. The discussion that took place last week, as well as the discussion today and tonight, deepens this discussion. Now I don't know how hard the press is in introducing what's going on here -- I'm afraid that there may be poverty in that subject -- but I think those who've observed this discussion, both in the last week and today and tonight, and then I'm talking about the public, are a lot more informed about what's left over. That is what may be so frustrating that a person does not take the time needed to bring this understanding and that knowledge to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. There's something like this about which you experience the atmosphere, especially in the support groups of the administrations that speak for this matter. Of course, it is not surprising, of course, that European Community leaders remain on this matter, but it has really been surprised to learn how certain councils of the left green, independent, and forwarding party were in this matter and became the first part of the supporters of this series. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Sæmundsson came to understand that he experienced the experiences of these groups, as those supporters expressed themselves in a way that almost caused a person to experience the betrayal of his party. I thought about the process in the process of things being done. Now people have been in slow motion for months and years. V.E.G. Secretary of State, if I recall correctly, declared that he could not see any reason except to consider the case in the autumn, in the fall of the future. There is a great hurry around a committee job and the committee, and then this case is to be run through here in the Hall of Congress as soon as possible and preferably under cover of night, as is said at times, though we speak about it when we are assigned time, as we do. Do you think that some form of action is responsible to the feelings of many members of the board of government that were supposed to compromise their way of thinking?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u70	V.E.G. President. In itself, I would not be surprised that people who have entrusted these categories to their votes are suspicious, or perhaps rather not understanding why so much trouble is. I say for myself as a member of the General Assembly: I also did not understand how hard it was to get this case out of the Foreign Affairs Committee, that there should be no more guests there, and that, as it seems to be, men should have chosen the visitors who came before the committee for an acceptable decision or some opinion that is more acceptable to the committee. Work like this - it's very understandable that people who trust these categories for their votes, and some of the people I've met from all these categories have done it not only since yesterday but for decades, they don't know their classes, they don't know their position. They don't know that humans are running so completely from a course they've had before. It seems like a novelty. True, I don't quite know the voters of the forward party that have a variety of routines. They've run a little bit in circles, as we know. But the Independence Party and the Left Green? I say again, I've heard speeches here from members of the Left Green who I would hardly have expected to hear at the Independence Party meeting. But that I would live to hear senators of the left green speak for their support of Europe, as Canadians did in this 19th century - I wouldn't have believed in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u71	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. I think that part of the problem of supporters of the case, if a problem can be called, it is also that they have been involved in the discussion only in a very small way, although this may be an opportunity for other groups other than the government classes. The middle class members who have been talking for a long time have been calling for a conversation all along, asking questions that were not answered at a committee meeting, and even calling for answers at the Assembly Hall. So I declare in my stocks that if any member of the board ever wanted to come to our discussion with us, the person would be quickly put in front of us in the rosary. It's not going to stand. But it can be, well. A senator, that this is also part of what appears to be a rift between the governments and their supporters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u72	V.E.G. President. I think it could be. I think exactly that the supporters of these classes, now disappointed every day with their members, regret not having received a proper presentation in the cause which men claim to have here, that they cannot explain in very few words what is so good and practical in walking this path. What is it? They say, "It's a panic propaganda here: the opposers are destroying the EEA deal. But I'm going to point out that if this case is done at the council then there will be no return without telling the whole EEA deal. In itself, I don't know about anyone in this room who's still on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u73	Madam President. Thank you. A senator who wants to establish only arguments for the support of the third energy package, and especially the basic reasoning that these same members claim, is of no importance to Iceland, which is in itself very special. Such induction is of great importance. But if we take a closer look at this, we will see and hear a presentation between the management and those who support them in this matter, the Conspiracy, the Restoration and Pirata, that there is a fear of political consequences, which really means that the General Assembly will give up the right to reject this intervention unless there may be some kind of emergency. And now, according to Friðri's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Stefánsson, it's a perfect way to go. But then you ask yourself: " Do national states, such as we do in this important matter, have political consequences dictated? We have a legal means that we can do, but the government does not want to go out this legal way because of political fear. Where, then, have we come as a nation when we do not use this legal right, while allowing ourselves to be controlled by some political fear?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u74	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I've asked myself. A senator turned to me, and I thank him, no matter what man is afraid of. Franklin Delano Roosevelt once said: "We have nothing to fear but fear itself. At least in my life, or as long as I've been watching politics, we've been in all kinds of trouble with other nations. We were at war with the British because of land cover, three times. We've had this kind of relationship with the Americans, e.g. of whale hunting. It was all the source of political uncertainty in its time. But all of these cases have been resolved in some way. And, for example, Now, after the three cod wars we fought against the British, the British are probably our major allies today in a number of ways. The past has simply passed because we were right and we were better. The International Court also included us in this matter and voted in our favor. The smell of Icesave is the same. There we received a favorable judgment after a very violent struggle inside this hall. I can't think of that thought to the end if that fight in this hall had been lost. Where would we be then? And in some ways, you feel the same way now. If this discussion in this room is lost, what will it be? And what will be the result of what cannot be undone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u75	Madam President. Thank you. The answer, which was very good and was just an important part of all of this: Where would we be if we were governed by political fear? He rightly mentioned the Icesave case in this context, which is a very good example in these topics. It produced an incredible fear of the consequences if we did not agree with the agreements, did not pay off the debts established by private banks, and the public had to deal with them. Experts' statements heard that Iceland would be a Cuba of the North, etc. Fear was passed. The exact same thing is happening in this case. It's a very similar example, and thank you very much. A senator for bringing it forward. This is a powerful illustration by a·gaʹpe. A senator and I thank him for her. [[The president calls.]] The exact same thing is happening in this case, and it's very sad, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u76	V.E.G. President. Yeah, yeah. Senator. Just in circumstances like these, you feel that political leaders should be taken by surprise and must must muster up courage and explain the advantages offered. And now I say again: I don't know of any creation that's going to pass on this matter in such haste. I just can't see him. So why don't people come forward and tell the nation: We're not going to do this exactly like this, like the European Union and the Norwegians and some put pressure on us to do it, we're not going to be driven - now I don't know that the Icelandic government has been threatened - to make such a decision. We are simply going to take the way that this contract guarantees us and get better results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u77	Madam President. The rest of the discussion has been very much discussed on the other hand, on the case's terms with the Constitution, on the big administrative notice, and on the other hand, many legal issues. I'm going to follow my talks to try to shed some light on the question, What then? What's next? How can we imagine that our environment will develop in the coming years and decades? I'm going to allow myself to frame the vision I'm going to bring in for the next talk, to read a fistula from the Viðar of Garðarsson, which appeared on his blog, vg.blogis, on May 16 of the past. By permission of the president, Viðar says: ▪ In a few lines, I'm going to look at this matter out of the nation's commercial interests and set up a stage in the future. However, this discussion has been sorely lacking that the future is examined in different forms. The word in these writings of mine is here used as a joint worker and company on the land. Let us look forward to 2040 or more over 20 years, the development of high technology has taken place in all areas, as the so - called Fourth Industrial Revolution was on the move and did not predict all the changes that are going over the world. Based on market changes, including Because of the high exchange of carbon emissions from transport both raw and artificial products, the industry has largely left a country where energy prices plus carbon costs are unfavourable in this country, far from the main sources of raw materials and markets, have resulted in a much more efficient gross industry production for either the raw source or the main market area. Viðar continues, with President's permission: ▪ This trend has resulted in 80% of all the energy produced in this country is not selling. In the energy sector, there is a mass failure if the electroenergy cord is not placed here as soon as possible. The nation's electricity prices are all out of control because of the problems of the electrical plants, which are now pushing never again on the rise in prices and fixation of the electromagnetic cord. Senators have no alternative to preventing the problems of the energy companies but to agree with the shape of the cables to the country. I'll continue, with President's permission: Of course, all the ingredients of the third energy package and the following packages will be activated by the number of sea cables. Then the nation will come under the promotion of sovereignty that is built into this series of regulations. The ACER and the National Regulatory (National Order) both subject to the authority of the European Commission, these Member States will have final reports on how much energy can be exported and at what price. The country will have to accept that despite the vast resources of the country, the European Union will determine the energy prices offered for national use. Much of the production and innovation in the country will move closer to markets, after production and equipment will take the money, and then the young people. And Viðar continues, with President's permission: I'm sure it's a pretty dark picture I paint here, but it's not unrealistic. It could easily work out if the independence of the Allied with foreign power continues. That way, I don't think we can rule out any cables being laid here. It is not business to get bound in regulations to the buyer's decision on the price of the energy when it comes to it. And Viðar concludes this locket of his words: ▪ Instead of harping on legal matters, I think we should consider the future and the consequences of our actions today. I shall admit that I find it difficult to see positive prospects for the future on these EU energy panels. So I give them a description of the members who support this operation's implementation and promise that I will listen attentively. So many words were spoken in this locket of the son of Viðar Garðarsson last May. Viðar is just one of the many common citizens who are really concerned about the effect of the third energy package when it is started. Sadly, the provisions of the energy package and its induction have failed to convince both us skeptics at council and the public not only about the advantages of this induction. And on this I will try to shed light in my next speeches. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór, Ólason, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. It's an interesting article quoted here. It is written under the guidance of 20 years into the future, which is not so long, because only 20 years ago, we were installing the first energy package, and things have happened since then. As discussed earlier, there have been major advances in technology, and there is nothing to deny that we are more concerned with what the future holds. I think that there are a lot of things that Iceland and I have done and done and is a little bit in the national soul -- that includes tenting for one night. There may be explanations in where we live, on this oppressive island. We'll fight when it's dry, and we'll have an operation, and we'll put fish in a house after we've given up fish. But the important thing here is to make a living, and then what? It is true that much of the country, apparently, thinks about it. What's the plan from now on? Will they reason, and so will the people, that after this step, after we have defined ourselves as part of the EU internal energy market, we can turn around, burst into an emergency unit, or use the silver ball? How does the senator feel about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u79	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson answers. To begin with the question itself and answer it, I think it is too late to step firmly on the brakes when the car is in the ditch. The entire structure of the supporters of the third energy package is burned to put their heads in, run the case through, and finish, and then see to it how it works. To put in the context of the 20 - year - old period that Viðar Garðarsson spoke of in his fist: It happened by then. In the past ten years, a senator, who was an excellent review, has lost 50 percent of the cost of energy, say wind mills and energy sources by harnessing the wind. Like recent decades, we look forward to the era of rapid development in the coming decades. These arguments, e.g. That it is so expensive or energy loss is so complex and technically complex - no doubt it will solve most of the problems. So making a relationship here will be a much easier decision to make after 10 or 20 years than it is today, let alone five or ten years ago. And I think we, perhaps not better, have to force ourselves to ask ourselves, " And then what? ' Looking a little ahead and trying to figure out how we want these energy markets to develop over the next few years and decades. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the answer. With regard to future events and speculations as to what might become, we have also read thistles, including thistles. I was here with a report in front of me in my last speech, where the effects of the induction of the third energy package on Norway and then the rest, i.e. what would happen with the arrival of the fourth. It is, in fact, there. Based on the induction of the fourth and then the fifth non-repeated energy package, energy produced by fossil fuels will actually flow to Norway, i.e. Power can flow in both directions. It will be at the same price in the whole area, but it will be done to ensure electronic security because the resulting biofuel of Norway can be lost at some point, i.e. We depend on this energy in a way that matters. The renewable energy depends on this, i.e. wind and rain or rain; it is in some form of snow. Since then, in Iceland we have an energy resource, which is a geothermal, which is not found in other European countries. You can ask yourself, " Do I have a fifth energy package, or a fourth after Induction of a fourth energy package? ' [[The president calls.]] I would like to have only the senator's viewpoint on whether he thinks this is going to be a place to be and only the energy we know today, or whether it will be the tremendous energy that is hidden in the earth, even used. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u81	The president reminds the senators to respect the session.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u82	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. There's more to it than that. I think maybe that's the answer to that question. In other words, we are unconscious in some layer of exercise camp this losser, and these years with the so - called persistent letters, where electricity producers are divided by ethics. Icelandic electric producers sell electricity to foreign power producers the birth certificate called pure energy, and thus the land of electrical energy industry can sell energy to its clients on the grounds that it is in part to sell renewable energy, although no renewable energy is part of its production plan. I've thought of this as some song adjustment camp in the Icelandic system. They see, when they look at the electricity bills, that we have some kind of coal, some nuclear energy, and I don't know what our energy bills are. There is nothing in the European Union's way that suggests that it is acceptable for them to stop, as far as energy market management is concerned, to stop to the current position. You suspect that there's some extra happiness in the fourth and fifth packages that we don't know who's going to be today, that's definitely going to be somebody.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the body especially before this talk. The article he read was rather dark, but the talk was very encouraging, which really matters during that time of day. I can't keep it from you while you're at it. The speaker gave this talk, and he read from the article he started in his talk, and I thought about the discussion at the beginning of a meeting today about the possibility of Icelandic gardening. I couldn't hear better than everyone else. The senators and the Minister would be prepared to try to make the garden a good thing so that it can enhance its production and improve its selection, and we can stop moving in as much as we do today and reduce our carbon tracks and I don't know what. But at the same time, these same people are suggesting a change in energy, which, in the garden gardeners'opinion, will kill them because of an increase in currency. The agreement of vegetarian farmers, as I mentioned earlier this evening, has given rise to the very fact that this step will be taken. That's why I wonder which way. A senator can help me: How should we understand these two things? How can we resolve that? Is this such a terrible twin? Or are people just so naive that they think they can produce this energy package, keep the leftover electrical prices, set-up energy, and even extra energy, or whatever energy, in the growth of Iceland's garden, which is a natural matter? Do people really think that this is all possible and that it can be harmonized? [[The president calls.]] What has a what? A senator saying about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u84	Madam President. You're hoping you'll ask. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. It is as if two incompatible worlds occur when a panel of senators who spoke in a special discussion earlier today in connection with the prospect of the future in gardening and then when they are listened to the views of the same people in connection with the third energy package. It's not going to make a sound like that. There's a switch in between. Likely, just the country's gardeners are busy at work, except for the time they observe discussions about the future prospects of gardening. Of course, that is not the case. This is probably part of the distrust we have here, that the senators say one thing about future prospects in the garden and then something else in the discussion of the third energy package. And, of course, people realize that there's a bump in one another's corner. This will add to the problem of mistrust that surrounds all of this discussion and the implementation of the third energy pack supporters, when it is so completely incompatible with what is presented in it, and in one day. It's easy to see everyone watching the discussion that these two things cannot go together in the way that supporters of the third energy package want to mean. To reach that conclusion, it only takes such a reasonable view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u85	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's what you might be doing in this discussion a little bit, i.e. that the supporters of today's program have not, at least not in the ears of the person listed here, fully explain the implications of this package's approval of people in the country, whether they are gardeners, carers of the ASI - both the budget is against this bill and the Congress proposals - or the national union of the bakers. In itself, I must admit that I miss a bit of the representatives of these groups, i.e. ASI, the Research Institute, the Baker Party, simply turn up here outside the house and show in its own way that this will not be done. I think the bakers are coming to work right now, so it's nice to suggest that it would be worth one Mass for them to be here outside this house and try to bring more people along to demonstrate to the board the seriousness of this step. People know in these sectors and in these sectors how much this step will cost them. Then it must be shown to those who desire to take this step what it really means for the survival of these groups. In itself, I would like to have a little privacy, if I may say so, Madam President, on my reflections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u86	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. I think this comes as a little bit into what I said in the conclusion of my speech after reviewing the fistula of Viðar Garðarsson son of May 16 that the government and supporters of the third energy package have completely failed to explain, with the permission of the President:'st's in it for us? Why should we introduce this package? What's in it for us? There must be something positive against the limitations and expensees made by humans. I think, for example. Such reactions to the bakers, vegan farmers, and other classes are because they try to test themselves to see how this works. For, of course, that is what each person is next to, to his own business, to his own business, to his family, and to how this affects each person personally. Of course, the same applies to all companies, small companies, family companies around the country, or diverse agriculture that depend on electricity. I don't think it's going to be fixed unless you take one step back, take the case out of the course it is in now, and either refer it to the joint EEA Commission or once again until the autumn council so that men will have the opportunity to introduce it better, if it's so good, or to make it up to what is necessary for people and businesses to live in harmony with this transformation and induction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u87	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. If I just keep going like that. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in and did. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson also answered: This was also known as a business of such as the gardening and then the bakery and other things - we must ask ourselves this fundamental question: Has the market of energy that occurred here in Iceland specifically at a energy pack one and then two, benefited us? I think the answer is simple: It has not benefited us. There we can name such companies as bakers and gardeners. These were people who were allowed to purchase so - called night energy at a much lower price, but they had to accept a significant increase when a pack of energy was introduced and found in 2005, i.e. The competitive attitude of this party deteriorated significantly, and we, the people of the country, know that prices are raised on these products. This went into the prices, and the resulting rise in index and loan went up in the public. It is clear, then, that the market of the energy in this country had an increase and now to take the step further and that we will be participants in the market area of the whole European region, although at the time of the sea cable, all of which are being prepared for the cable that will come. Interestingly, though, the first talk discussed trust in politicians. Then, in February 2005, a report published in Science. It is, in fact, there. the current industrial minister asks whether the new electricity laws that were then used for the induction of a energy package alone would result in an increase in energy prices. The then industrial minister answered no. Energy prices wouldn't go up. Then energy prices are rising, and new electricity laws go into effect, and they outlawed various special rates that were going on, including gardening, bakery, and other bodies that enjoyed special attention, including to cover house warming in certain non-heat areas. All these terms were banned by a energy package one. You ask yourself: " Why on earth were we undering the European Union's regulations that prohibited such a special term, e.g. Just to those who swallow their houses with electricity? I say, and have said so before in a speech here: What does Brussels have to do with that we have been subsiding e.g. Electricity to house warming in cold areas of our oppressive land? I say for my part, Mr. President, the politicians have failed to protect the Icelanders'interests from this and sad case, thinking how we would simply submit to this rule, which would have a bad effect on a lot of Americans and companies. So it is in my mind that amazingly poor stakeholders on the part of Icelandic politicians have made this happen. That should never have happened. That's why I say the moves scare. I fear that the same things will be true now and that if it happens that politicians, the government, and the government, are subject to this power, not to the interests of the people who are much richer and greater. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u88	Mr. President. I'm sorry I didn't come to a game right away. But I appreciate it. A senator is eager for this speech. It raised other questions about things to be carried out, but you don't see how to function under these new circumstances. And here I am talking about the so-called energy exchange. It is now being said to the public in the country: After 2030, no gas or diesel trucks will be moved into Iceland. Only electric cars will be moved. Then you have to ask yourself: " How is this policy compatible, since at the same time the energy market in Iceland is changing to the third energy pack? You're absolutely right, as hell. A senator said earlier, that the market of electricity over our heads has not proved to be very good for us Icelanders, either a energy package alone, not a energy package two, since we were trading these companies in a much more intensive way than we ever had to. All of this inclines you to ask: How should the public in the country be able to trust that energy exchange, e.g. will be followed by the force or by the way government promises if this energy package is introduced that will greatly increase electricity prices to consumers? It all points to that. How do you fit in with this, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator gives an answer to a very valid reflection. At the same time that governments stress the climate and energy exchanges, including the so - called electrical flux system, which has happened faster than anyone expected, it is difficult to see how this would fit in with the cohesion of European electricity markets. We're talking about 2030 in this energy exchange here like a dog. A senator mentioned, and it is perfectly clear to me that in 2030 we will be on the long journey by means of a cable. Then there will be competition for this energy. That's why I think it'll just put our own energy exchange chair in front of the door when they see that energy companies can sell their electricity at a much higher price to Europe than here, because it's pure energy that Europe really needs. I don't think it's possible how this energy package can affect our own energy exchanges and commitments in those substances that are large under the Paris Convention. That's why. A senator rightly has a very important issue that has not been discussed and would indeed be part of this discussion. I agree with that. A senator and thank him for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u90	Mr. President. It seems that there are a number of people who are following this discussion and who have sent us questions. I got one question earlier that's very interesting, and I thought I'd share it with a what. Senator. It is about this: What is the result of the senator's accepting of the energy package may have to the voters mentioned earlier, the groups they believe have failed them? Counts the senator, e.g. that there may be a strong opposition to the overall EEA Convention or, in other words, that the EEA may be threatened in this way because the energy package is driven through the Parliament at the speed and manner in which it has been done? I'd like to hear what you're thinking. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It is a joy to see many who are at home observing this discussion, even though it is now past three o'clock. It only shows the importance of the subject, and the common people have many legitimate questions that he has not had any opportunity to present, which only shows how badly the matter is presented on the part of the government. There's two questions. There is a question of how to affect the voters and how to affect the EEA contract. Regarding the voters, it is perfectly clear to me that this is one of the public's trust in politicians and the Generals. We'll see, for example. Left green, which fought the energy pack one and two at the time and was the only group that was opposed, that now they should just try to run it through at the right time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's all there is to say. I get to come back to the second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u92	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For good talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson offered. He found out that it was here that was initiating a continental ideaology that really wasn't relevant in Iceland. It seems there's undisputed at a council for all those who have mentioned this as not relevant, Iceland is definitely an island, and we're not connected. Hv. A senator also learned that through the introduction of the first and second energy packets, especially one of the energy packages, it has been forbidden to give special terms to users in Iceland, but they are extremely important, that we can control the price of selling our energy to those who need to use it on land. Isn't that what we're doing here, protecting Iceland's interests, the interests of Icelanders and those who choose to live here or run a business? You'd think so. The market for consumer interests may apply in Europe, i.e. National ideaology, where there's no other law than what you do here. I have a complete understanding of that, since power plants and those who sell their energy are private people. That's not the case. It's us, the public who owns the energy, we sell it, and we use it. Why should we move from the form we are today to this market area, thus focusing primarily on European and European interests rather than on Iceland and Iceland's interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to this question is unmistakably unusual for us to accept indiscriminately that the terms here apply to a number of people and companies in the country when a pack of energy came up to be paid off, because there is some ideologies in Europe. We are certainly members of the EEA Convention, the joint market but there are also exceptions due to a special status. That's exactly what we were supposed to do, on special leaves. It can be reasoned very well that such an exception should be paid on the European Union in a relatively small way because we are not associated with that area. But it's perfectly clear to me that politicians haven't gotten up and yet, the government groups, unfortunately. We see the claims of politicians, as I mentioned earlier, a former industrial minister, that electricity would not go up. It didn't work out. It just didn't work out. The power rose, the special term was taken away, and therefore I say: Is it not highly assumed that the claims made by the government, the government, now that this has no effect, etc., that we make any prior notice - don't do exactly the same thing as the previous statesmen's declarations in matters that have failed? [[The president calls.]] I think that's pretty clear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u94	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answers. What, then, would be the reason why the followers of a three - pack energy package are so incompatible with themselves? It has been reported that what is not relevant in Iceland, the continental ideaology that is not relevant in Iceland, should not be introduced, to form, as has been the case so many times, railroads, or canals. It does not seem to be a problem to be absolutely sure that such things do not make us where they are not relevant. But when it comes to accessing Europe's internal network with electrical energy that is not relevant - no, we must take the steps and take them to the full. It will be political resolution here. Does a senator, in view of what has been promised and has not been able to stand, think that it will be more likely to stand? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm absolutely aware, as I traced earlier, that I believe very low that these claims come about with right now. They didn't work out when we were creating a energy package one and two. Unfortunately, politicians do not seem to realize enough that it is a responsibility to say that this is not possible to have any effect when we see that it has happened more than once that men have made claims in connection with the induction of the energy package above that have failed. To me, this is an example of what is all too common in politics in Iceland, of putting forward something that does not stand up, and of which it appears to be irresponsible. Then the energy rises and everyone comes from the mountains and is amazed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. She made me wonder about what happened. A senator stated that in these matters, people have not kept watch in the way expected of politicians and the official system, so to speak, and that the interests of interest were lost at the early stages of the case. I understood why. A senator would be looking all the way back to the induction of the first and second energy package. I think that feeling's gonna blow. The senator is correct, and this is part of the lack of faith that is fully in connection with the impending induction of this third energy package. The public has not yet received any specific explanation for the urgency of the situation. There is no evidence that we are in some temporal situation. Let's keep in mind that the highest. The minister of foreign affairs had already suggested that the matter would not be on schedule until the next fall. In fact, it puts all this panic, and the too much of it is now being driven on in a very special context, promoting a sense of distrust over the matter. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether he feels likely, if they do not trust in taking a firm stand in the interest of domestic and individual interests and businesses, but it seems that now, no matter how many people may be, they dress themselves up and take over the protection of interest, the induction of later packages. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the point of the matter is that there is no turning back once this energy package is introduced. It's exactly the same as, for example. with an energy pack of one and two. These specialities, which were very important to many, subsidies to house warming, subsidies to companies that bought electricity cheap at night - this does not happen again to become a reality. These matters have been taken care of, the Committee has fallen down, and we're stuck with them. In that respect, I don't think that future interests will be meant to change the situation exactly as it is and face it and are bad. Of course, you wonder: " Is there other interests behind it? Are there some stakeholders, big business like land induction that has given high priority to the approval of this, putting the lines on the government? Admittedly, the question is, Is that true? It is the advantage of these enterprises to be able to sell the energy at the highest price and to maximise interest and it is clearly important to prepare what is to be done in the way that this energy package is being done here. We've received reports that there have been some private investments in both the country and the activation initiatives, etc., which makes it natural for humans to see an opportunity in the future. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There are, of course, a lot of things that go wrong with this. There is a recent report on the topic on the U.S.R.R.is website, where the conclusion is, in which there is no other reason to spread when a news reporter spoke to any member of the administrations, that the situation was that the EEA deal was under. It sounds kind of amazing, the men who walked along, especially yesterday and Wednesday last week, that at the induction of the third pack of energy, the affidavits were the ones who kept up the fear of life. Now it's just the EEA deal, that's all. There is no longer confidence in the matter of matter. [[The president calls.]] How do these reasoning advocates view the proposal for the introduction? A senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is, naturally, entirely unscrupulous terror on the part of the government and the governments, and the groups that support this induction, restoration, convergence, and Pirata, to argue that a contract between two parties has been in force for 25 years, is upset if we use our legal right to handle the case for a joint committee that finds a solution to the differences. This is reasoning, which is not supposed to happen. We've never used this right. Today, there is much to it, and if you just look at international relations, that state is making good use of itself in this way. I'm now telling you that if this panic propaganda comes from somewhere, it comes from the government. He does not come from us middle - class groups who are trying to demonstrate that there is no danger of going this legal way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u100	Mr. President. It's almost 3:30. I'd like to ask the highest. The way he envisions continued assembly into the night. Early today, a council meeting was held that there was no agreement for a meeting to continue into the night beyond one or two. It's almost 3:30 now. We middle class here are not praying to continue our discussion, but it would be good to know the rest of the organization for us. Some have to be at a hearing in the morning and so forth. It would be interesting and important for us to hear when the highest time is in store. A president arranges to finish the discussion overnight. I reiterate that we are not praying to continue, but for the sake of the organization, it is a good idea to inform us about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u101	Mr. President. I agree with what my partner's got. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said earlier. Of course, we are right, already starting in the morning, finding out how and how long the president has thought this meeting will last. Because like a dog. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said there was a deal here or a desire to continue a meeting until one, two to-night. We media have not been complaining that any time has passed because the discussion has been very illuminating. Perhaps she is finally making some flight now and that we are getting closer to the core of the matter. But still, just for good reason, it would be good to hear it from the highest. President how long he'd like to continue this meeting here in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u102	Mr. President. I thank the members of the council who have come here and pointed out the need to know how long a meeting should last. I must say, I am surprised at the importance of continuing the discussion until the morning. I don't know why there's such a hurry. I remind you that this was an issue earlier today, the matter of foreigners, which I would now have thought would be very important to complete, simply because it is necessary to handle the costs of international protection applications in this country. We see that this matter can be replaced with what can easily be delayed. So I say, "Hitv." Mr President, I think it's time to have some information about when it's decided to complete the assembly meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u103	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with the questions that have happened here. Parliamentary council members. How long should a meeting continue? Now that the clock is down, the committee meeting's about to begin at 8:30. I can't avoid wondering what's wrong with this case, since it's easy to wait. There are, however, many other subjects that may endure less or even no waiting. The end of the council is near. You wonder, " Is there something that might be revised? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u104	Mr. President. I'd like to know what the president intends to do in this case because now it is so, as my colleagues have noted, that there are many cases waiting to be taken care of and issues like this, which we've talked about for a long time, we can easily end up on the three days of Congress scheduled for this week. However, this would certainly take into account some of the other cases that are about to be taken care of at the council. That is why it is very important for us to hear Presidential plans for that, for example. how long in the morning he intends to continue this meeting so that we can see what the next few days and days will mean for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u105	Before the speech comes, the president wants to report it. The members of Congress are here five years ago. Congress officials and presidents have no plans but to continue and contribute to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u106	Mr. President. Then there is the situation and puts together a special discussion about the alleged agreements made by members of the council. But there are things to expect, as we do, in our home here. One of the things we've complained about during the discussion is that we've been having trouble getting supporters of the third energy package to meet us. From my experience, however, it seems easier to get people who are advert in total during the day than in the middle of the night. If only for that, I think it would be wise to start calling it good. I bear in mind that we do not pray for the time provided to discuss the matter, but this will put the talks of the council groups in another context below until the end of the council, I'm afraid. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u107	A respectable president. I can barely speak. Here we stand at the great General Assembly and seem to be organized to an end. We had the experience of Friday night last week - or Thursday - I can't remember if it was, when it's time - an agreement was made that didn't hold. Today a special request was made for variations to be granted to a subject that was soon to be taken off the program. There was an agreement that we had a meeting until one or maybe two o'clock last night. [[Take it up: wrong.]] It's almost 3:30 now. [[Foreground on President's Conference Board.]] [[Take it up: wrong.]] [[The point is: There was no agreement.]] [[Set up an agreement to continue any longer.]] I'll correct it, if that's true. At least we're standing here at 3:30 in the morning and we're still talking about a pack of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u108	Mr. President. It may be that the one spoken here was conducting a meeting with the chairman of a council before noon this morning, making it very clear that he was interested in completing the program of the present meeting, in any case, the matter that has been discussed for a long time. They did not miss a meeting, and there was not to be any misunderstanding. It's time to find out what's happened. The members of Parliament have a great need to express themselves, and there are growing numbers of interested ones at the council and not very many election days left. Of course, it is reasonable to respond to that need by extending a meeting meeting. I'll take it from here to there. The members of the Central Party, who have a great need to discuss this matter, discuss it and make an answer to themselves, rejoice that they have made room for them to give their talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u109	We weren't praying about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u110	Thus, all of this is fine, and we do not have much to make good use of the brightest nights of our lives to have these upbuilding conversations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u111	V.E.G. President. It's been established before last night, and last night in short, that the reversal of the board of directors is interesting. There is no proper discussion that we opposers of the energy package have reached his followers. They seem to run away from the case with confidence that the Central Party will be whistled off the field and that it will be possible later to accept the synopsis without looking to an agreement with those who are opposed to the way that has been chosen and without doing this in agreement with a council and a nation. In fact, the government groups that have been on the subject, supported by the European Union, have experienced a great deal of opposition to the matter in their backyard. No wonder, then, that in the past, the government groups have declared their opposition to this scheme in the World Council and other places. This would have been one reason why the groups enjoyed the exclusive service they enjoyed and that was evident in the last election. It's a complete turnaround. After years of policy, most of these classes are derailed. I'd like to read here from the 125th legislature board by permission of a president: A third area of geographic status exists in the United States. There are very few people living in a very large, energy - rich country. In view of the European Union's main targets for the internal market for electricity, it is found that at least Two of the four are definitely not relevant in Iceland, i.e. to make the electricity sector part of the European Union's internal market. The aims of Iceland are self-involved, since the electricity market here is an isolated entity and not linked to the markets of other countries of the EEA. The fourth objective is to facilitate companies in the electricity sector to do business between countries on the EEA. This is not included in the movie in the case of Iceland where the electricity market is isolated and will probably continue for a long time. Therefore, questions arise about what led to a lack of search for it from the beginning, as obvious evidence suggested, that Iceland would receive a permanent release from falling under this directive. This was chosen when Iceland for the next obvious reason was given the exception of a directive for transparent prices and transport of natural gas in the European Economic Area. From the beginning, it should have been a quest for comparable permanent access to the internal market with electricity. Later in the poll, according to President's permission, the conclusion is: The main item feels that it is entirely premature to decide now, with a universal household falling from a administrative advance in relation to the decision of the joint EEA Committee No. 168/99, that the European Community Directive for the internal market for electricity will be entered into the EEA Convention. It was a clean, clean mistake, clean mistake, Mr. President -- not looking for a permanent release for Iceland. With reference to the above, the smaller item contributes to the decision of the European Commission No. 168/99 will be referred to the government and assigned to restore the case in the field of the joint committee. It must be followed by an untimely release for Iceland from becoming an internal market for the European Economic Area by electricity. As long as the Icelandic electricity market is isolated and not connected to the energy market of other EEA countries, the design exists. As a precaution, Iceland's requirement will require that the Icelanders give a much longer lead-in period to these changes, at least twelve to fifteen years. It is written on May 2, 2000, and the highest porter is the year 2000. General President, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. This particular opinion would, in fact, be of full significance today. And I must say, Mr. President, at this point the men seemed very firm in their stand. What Has Changed? Why should we not consult the EEA joint committee and receive permanent leave and not introduce in this manner?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to bring this up. It seems that the representatives of all government groups have taken some form of smokeás on this matter, and this is of interest to them. Here was in the hall just past the highest. The president of the Generals and then the President of the United States. A senator and it would have been pleasant and informative to have some explanation of this conversion, a reason for them, or something like that. But, of course, this is primarily interesting for both us here and we are still discussing this matter and will do it as long as necessary, but also for those who may be observing the discussion or sharing news of what is going on here at the council. For them, I think it must be interesting points in this discussion. I have to agree with what. A senator does not realize what has led him to take such a strict stand on this matter, which is certainly, as shown in this quoted committee, a very big and remarkable, or what forces or who has changed their mind for the individual. I'd love to get a guess. The senator's opinion of what he believes was responsible for this 180° twist or so in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Sometimes it is that when you ask a big question, you don't get much answers, but I'll do my best. What causes this conversion? I think it may be clear to what a man's child can be that there are some stakeholders who are pressing very hard to see that this council plan goes through. I don't think there's anything else. I don't see what it is in a time or bed where it moves so that this will be done here, that this can't tolerate postponement or revision, that the government can't take it back on its own and decide that there's another way to look at it, unless there are some underlying interests that force it to be completed. I think we must conclude, as long as this is discussed for hours and management, and those who are supplied with the energy package do not see reason to answer any question or get involved in the discussion so much that we've already gone to and had not been taken before. I don't think there can be anything other than driving this through to wish. I must say as it is, I can't see what else would move on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u114	Mr. President. Yeah, that's exactly what you're wondering, what makes this case happen so fast through the council. So one might wonder, especially since the members of the government have been in a greater way opposed by one of the surveys of another. But there is something stronger in the mind of those who appoint members of the same classes. There is some force that is stronger than the voices of the people who chose them and gave them their commission in the last election. In itself, we can wonder what it can be and what it is like. A senator identified the interests that are so wonderful that this matter must be handled in a conflict, not only within the council, but also in a conflict with the nation through the council. A host cannot appeal to what has happened here. This is likely to mean that the independence party will be 15%, and the forward party will be wiped out, that is, the short - term effect, which in itself is not undesirable to our judgment. Of course, it is far more important that the nation will not be harmed by the arrangement that is being accomplished here. That's why she's being warned. But I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can recognize the interests that are greater than the duties of the senators to those who chose them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. This has been a frequent and repeated discussion of the fact that those who oppose the case are paraphrasers, isolationists, populists, and I don't know what or what. Would people like to have the same words about President Jón, the late President Sigurðsson, who fought for their independence and independence? Here, we have reasoned that we will use the sovereignty we have to negotiate with other countries and countries. We're right, we're gonna use it, but we're gonna get rid of it if we turn it over to national institutions. It is true that this is not only in conflict with those who have stood here and protested the decree of Congress but also with the nation. You ask yourself, " What interests are richer? ' They could be financial for some particular party. One thing I've been thinking about is that it's done in this way because, in the form of a Senate resolution, it's obvious that another executive of the legal authority, the President of Iceland, has made a contribution to the case. He cannot be as good as he could be if there was a law, a bill to correct, the case in the nation's judgment. There may be sufficient reason why this is being driven so hard in this way and in the form of a synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. That certainly caught up in the discussion about President's conference board at the highest level. A president and a what? A senator, Stigrim J. Sigfússon, stressed that a meeting would continue and that there would be no room for him to find in that subject. He has not, however, participated in this conversation that I find somewhat special because he was a well - known adversary in the council on a pack of energy, and he had a special look at the foreign press committee at the time when he strongly stressed that we would receive access, permanent release from this nuclear directive. That is why the reason for this is no surprise. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is now trying to run this case through and has been completely involved in the matter. In this regard, I would like to have some thoughts at ease. A senator of what he believes to cause such conversion, e.g. for left greens who have not been known to be particularly interested in the market over their heads. Perhaps this class is changing course to become a market party, and then he has betrayed his voters and taken up a completely different course than he had proposed at the beginning of the last election. You wonder what causes them to change because of what happens. A senator specifically mentioned interests that might be behind them somewhere. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It'd be nice to get past this. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I can say anything. Senator. I miss many in the discussion, and there are many members of the council who have not actually given so little consideration to give one talk on this important subject. V.E.G. The president of the Allegis, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, is clearly one of them, a great speaker, and a well - spoken man who enjoys listening to his talks. Another person I miss is the minister of foreign affairs we've seen very little, which, however, is the reason to blow. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, last year. This arrangement for not being there, which was in the Senate's behalf with a foreign legal committee abroad, was proposed by the council. What causes left green people to repent? That's a good question. This may not be the first time we see their dealings in important matters, such as filming when they decided to comply with the Community and apply for entry into the EU. Well, that was something. And it is then to consider for the voters whether all the princery issues, the fundamental points of which the sect puts together are merely to hang on chairs in the government or whether they are for personal gain to those sitting in it. I don't know. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't mean to tell people that right now, but somebody's the pressure, when people get to hold their hands like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is where we come to what has been discussed here many times, the public's confidence in politicians and the World Council. It is emphasized in the government Treaty to promote the General Assembly, and you would have felt that this would be a careful discussion of big and important matters. This is one of the issues that are considered to be quite large and much, and for the country's future interests, which are to be run through in the shelter of the night. Many questions have arisen. The public is interested in finding answers to certain questions but not in them, so they contact members of the council in hopes that they can communicate the questions. There is no one here to answer these questions on the side of the administration, such as the driving force. A senator mentioned. Away from the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is in no uncertain terms during the discussion. And so has the highest. The prime minister has little to say on the subject. So I can't see that public trust is being supported by the Generals and that the administrative parties are responsible for all of that. Of course, this makes you wonder why you are driving the matter so far. Are there any interests behind us that we have not yet received? The EEA contract is in danger, which I have repeatedly suggested is totally out of place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u119	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Trusted in the Generals and the Generals - there should never be any reasons why this does not increase. It was, if I recall correctly, in uncivilized inquiries yesterday as a boy. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson had a place to speak. The prime minister on this matter, the trust and respect of the Generals, came up with something that might make him appear unproved. If I'm right, I'm speaking to the highest. The prime minister, who had grown tremendously from the time she sat on the council, did not succeed. Another factor that would have been that it would be a big challenge to get new members to the council. Ever since she'd taken over at the General Assembly, people would have been made a lot over at the council, but not everything had happened, there would still be a bit of a little bit of distrust for the council. You must put this into context. What changed? The categories are still here, some new and others older, some very old. If the progress is this, that despite the growth of the transparency and change of the people on thrones, there is a great promise, the fundamental part of the class's course of betrayal, repeated and repeated in the way that we witness, is it not hoped that people will ask themselves whether the Council is trustworthy? I think that's absolutely right. A member of the U.S. Convention called into question the fears of the EEA agreement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's really far-off. He will not be in danger until we stop associating with him in the way we have signed it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u120	The president has reason to reiterate it to the question of why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u121	Mr. President. It is in itself a pleasure to have received the confirmation of it from the highest level. The chairman of the council that a meeting will last until this discussion is complete. Of course, we have nothing to do with it and to fulfill it. We were wondering here what would have led a man to make a complete U-turn in this matter - whether it's the present level. The Speaker of the Council, my dear. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, or anyone else. It was said earlier that men were not familiar with the left class of green as they used to be. We, who are in here and who are not the deepest pots in that party's cage, are not the only ones who don't understand. Saturday we had a meeting at the East Field, where the former gang was. paritaprevir The pride of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson was among speakers and gave a bold talk. He called his old group an offer because he said that it was neither left nor green, thus promising the movement an offer. It may be that names and numbers will be covered, and this will be changed over the course of time. But it is far from the fact that left greens merely surprise you about this matter. It is also surprising how the Independence Party has run from its national conferences on this matter. These fine groups have been in every kind of creature, if we can put it that way. The independent party has accepted complete rejection of health markets, and waitings for sick people everywhere are piled up. This is what the Independence Party is doing. So you wonder if these groups were merely divided by their focus modules. Instead of giving in to the health care issue, the Independence Party relaxes left greens in the commerciality of electricity, without thinking e.g. to what effect such markets will have on the environment of this country. I now mention again all the permission that has been applied and even provided for so - called microdoers in Iceland, below 10 MW, and therefore do not have to go to environmental assessment. I could also refer to the modern - day windmill parks, or is being investigated, that would be three or four. They didn't hear a rousing in the movement of ◯ campaigns. Don't pick. They are neither left nor green in these materials at this time. Then there is one more question: Those who oppose us in this matter have constantly been talking about our always talking about sea cables. I can't remember referring to a cable during this discussion except by an outsideer. You ask yourself, though, " Now is the next sure thing about these wind mill gardens I mentioned earlier, and all the small monuments that men plan to set up, that it will not be possible for those who build these monuments to sell electricity at the price of what it is generally sold in Iceland at this time. ' Then there's only two things, i.e. if you are not going to run these devices with a loss: either those involved will increase energy prices to the public in Iceland to a considerable extent that they have the assurance that they will be able to deliver electricity to an acceptable source. It's all very interesting, and it'll definitely come back to you in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. I thought it was in front of me. A senator may have doubts about the goals of those who are now looking for considerable building, both in the form of windmill gardens and then in the minimizations, which are still large as they occur, these less than 10 MW activations. To be said, I'm no more than against further energy recovery in this country. But I feel that the senator's statement is that he has doubts that the sole objective of the members of this future structure is to sell into the domestic market. Plan A may be what is a little more distant than within reach expected from what is now being attempted to pass through here at the council. I get it. A senator right? If this is the case, what effect will that have? A senator who has the will of the people of the land to support such projects as this, the windmill gardens on the one hand, and so - called edifices? Does he think it will have a positive or negative effect, if that is so? In my second answer, I enter the transporters that are part of this, but I don't get the time now. So I start with what I've mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u123	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. This has been shown in the discussion earlier tonight and tonight, e.g. in a speech I gave earlier, that I thought that in itself it would not be a sound language transfer to have a discussion about a special campaign in the EU vegetable industry and with plans for the incredible energy exchange in transport, and then I intend to market electricity and electricity prices for those who are now encouraged to change vehicles and take electricity instead of gasoline/disil. It's called promising in the sleeve to claim that humans are eager to provide vegetarians with the opportunity to compete with imported vegetables at the same time, and it's almost possible that the composition we're discussing here will increase energy prices to these two parties. I don't see how this works. We have recently seen that humans are interested in both small activations and a windmill business. Besides, I don't see that business can thrive on the current energy prices in Iceland. So one must ask himself, " Are these people going to rule, and the government going to let it go into the price? ' To increase electricity to vegetable farmers, energy exchanges, etc.? Or do you see the possibility of selling these electricity in some other area where prices are higher?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. Part of the development ahead, on the one hand in connection with windmills and in connection with minor inducers, is the transport network, the transport system within the country. There's been some concerns, including from the state of the transfer line from the Dalai to the southern part of the West, from the network in these locations, and it is expected to be more large. I have a fresh memory of this story, that existing transportation systems cannot tolerate the windsmills estimated in the region, the Dala region, and all around it. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this will play into the structure of transport systems in these ways, and how the costs of essential transport lines will be distributed to those who create this increased transport capacity and to those who have to pay for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u125	Mr. President. In fact, the person standing here has become particularly slippery in the ice to discuss the energy lines in Iceland in this very discussion. It doesn't make any difference that the ringlink in Iceland is, as I described earlier tonight, like a bad Christmas mess. And this comment, a poor Christmaser, I heard from an employee who knows the transfer network out and in. You're absolutely right what you're doing. For example, a member of the council of the western half country is out of the water and therefore is unable to stand for the increased movement for activation in the form of wind and forging of microdotes. But that is how one of the many people who have been following this discussion tonight and this morning sent a query into our group not quite long ago. He asked if the person standing here believed that those who are the buyers of electricity and/or its producers - on the other hand, I'm talking about non-employers in Iceland, on the other hand, the producers themselves - would be at some point and in some way added responsibility at the expense of building these lines. Now I don't have that answer on my hands. But in itself it does not seem unnatural that it would be done in some way. I don't see that the current strategy adopted as famous for 2015 embraces today's plans. I can't quite tell.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to look at the lead in the energy package one when it was created at its time, and I'd like to quote here in a letter from the Ministry of Industrial and Business, August 20, 2001. It discusses subsidies on house - to - house electricity. It says, by permission of the president: Since that time the object of subsidies has grown substantially, as energy companies are now providing a discount of electrical energy for the heating of apartment housing.How much more so? So it says: Then, the order of energy issues to be produced will likely require changes in these rules. I repeat:... probably will call for these rules to change. The energy companies provided a discount of electrical energy for housing housing. According to the Ministry, this is likely to change. However, they do not know exactly. Then the day came when they were right. The house - to - house volume was greatly increased in some areas. Enterprise electricity increased, I mention as a baker, who bought cheap energy at night, and more companies. So there we find that the Ministry, which is preparing these legislation, does not really know exactly what it will do. Well, it's an amazing procedure, Mr. President, but it's just to say it right now. Therefore, you are afraid that the exact same thing will happen about a pack of three energy, that people really don't know what it will mean for the public and for the people in the country. I'd like to hear from what I hear. A senator how he feels about this and the illustration I mentioned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u127	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right. One senator says, in itself, we can draw this together that our experience so far, through the induction of the first and second energy package, was very bad for consumers. It has been suggested that the electricity cost of households has declined as a result of the exchange of companies, etc. I don't know about anyone I've ever heard of or heard of. And they said, Yes, the electricity itself was diminished, but the transport increased. This did not change the raising of the power bill in the households. It's right behind me. The president of the Generals and then the President of the United States. A senator I believe was an adversary to these two prior energy packages. It is natural to say in the light of time and the past that he and his associates were right in this regard. Just that is why they may be even more surprised by their third energy package, which suggests that they will have even more impact on this than on the other two. But I agree with what. Senator. I am convinced that this approach by the European Union and the Council here, to give this to the nation in teaspoons, a pack of energy, one and two, three now, four and five in the next ten years, will always be hard pressed toward land and nation with each package we bring in. So, yes, experience is bad. Let's learn from her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. The reply of a senator, who truly agrees with his final statement here to my inquiry: Learn from the experience. That's a good word, huh? A senator, and certainly so, in this large matter. Sadly, though, the government did not seem to have learned anything from experience. The left green, who are in the seat of this government, should now know the story well. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned this was the highest. President and then Senator Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, highly opposed this energy package one and two. V.E.G. The president is eloquent and has given many good talks, but I think he gave one of his best talks when he spoke against a pack of energy one and two. I have to say, I'm surprised. A senator and a chief. The president should not have shared this with his left-hand partner on this matter, that we should learn from the experience. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson mentioned here he and those who spoke against this completely right. Electric prices rose, and there was an electrical power network in Iceland, which was not needed and has given bad results where it has been done and introduced. In that light, I am surprised by my left - green attitude in this matter. Indeed, they could have learned from experience and taken the legal course, such as the Supreme Court. In his day, the president spoke for a permanent release, which is important and is the only legal and correct way to handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u129	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator has a lot of right to say, because as mentioned in my previous reply, this experience is really bad. We're here to learn from this. I would have thought that it would not harm anyone, not the case, not the government parties, not the people, to take a better time now to settle this case, on the one hand, by postponing it until the fall, extending the wider solidarity of policy, and/or making the changes to the case that it will be sent to the joint EES Committee, as our rights are, perfect right. It may well be, as the experts in this case have said, that there would be some political uncertainty here. I say them again, as I said in my speech tonight, that that that's what we're working on every day. We are not moved to deal with any political uncertainties in this discussion. However, there is another aspect of this matter that puzzled me yesterday that about 12 hours ago, there was a part here in the Senate room called unprepared inquiry. But they seemed pretty well prepared yesterday, because representatives of three categories who attend this matter tried to get the highest power. To assist those who oppose this package as second - raters, the prime minister is following his example. I have to say it's the highest. To commend her, of course, she did not agree with this presentation, but in itself she did not have much answers to questions directly addressed to her. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u130	A respectable president. In my last speech, I said that I saw that the next few talks were going to review how you would see the development of energy markets, both short and long ago. What I would like to include in a speech speech right now I think it would be right for me to present at this point, just to put in the context of the environment we are taking further steps through the induction of the third energy package, which is the European Union's rule of action in addition to the packages that have already been introduced. In this context, I'd like to tell the council to panic. I think that the reason many people have doubts about the induction of the third energy package is that the European Union's appeal is increasingly merged in any area. It always seems to go further and further, and no one knows exactly where the development of fusion will end. Of course, we do know that there are some who hope that Europe will become one of Europe's fighting alliances, just as the United States of America exists under the control of Trump. Those who know the coin address know that most people who express themselves about the common coins believe that they can only exist if there is an even greater fusion, at least The financial integration of the European Union. It is in the form that we need to look and talk as we express ourselves on this subject. At any rate, I think it's an overwhelming part of the question common to the public, for we know the doubts that the main majority of people of the country have about the possibility of entering the European Union. In this context, again, we find ourselves in a place where you have to ask yourself: " How does a council of left green greens or supporters of left greens with this case when we look at that council of the left greens was complete and exclusive against a pack of energy one and a pack of two and moved to the top. The current president of the Generals has some excellent speeches. A senator who described his doubts about the induction of the first and second energy package? How does a Senate team of green people feel about having to put their heads under now and drive this case through the council? The same could be said of a party of forwarders, who have taken a U-turn from it just weeks ago or months ago, and their supporters. And then it's my best friends for the Independence Party. There can't be any good places there. Everything in the environment and the setting of this case gives rise to suspicion. I reiterate what I've said before, to the highest. The minister of state has declared that he saw that the matter would not enter the council until the fall, making it even more suspicious, that the case is pushed forward with the prejudicialness that is the case when humans seem to consider it as being the best thing to be done. Of course, no one is surprised by the induction of the third energy package. But it's quite surprising that the three federal groups are in the place they are now. When you keep in mind that the steps are truly frightening in dealing with the European Union and their growing appeal for merging and control over the various areas of human life and the economy, it is expected that people will be disturbed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the speech, Sir Bergþór's Ólason, very much, as it were hoped. He made it a subject of political status and concern. I happen to be in that country, coming from a regional district, where I have been fairly close to the various political parties, i.e. This is not a blue ideal or a green economy, as it may have been often said in politics, but it has left categories, center groups, and right groups, such as the Independence Party had for a very long time. And because of this, I know a lot of people, good friends, and family friends, who support the various political policies. I have to say it and say it with what. A senator that I can sense it in these people, even though they may disagree with me in politics or politics, that everyone seems to agree that this is a mistake in creating a pack of three. This is true of the followers of the left green and progressive, and all independents have agreed with me in this regard. However, it is not surprising that a new category of restoration is involved, that is, the declared European Union. It is also not surprising with the United States, which is also the declared European Union class. I'm not quite aware of where the Pirats have lived in the past, but today they're at least on this matter and against cables. [[The president calls.]] I want to throw it to the ground. The senator how he sees it, as in Pirata's case, that they can be a follower of the case but against a cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u132	A respectable president. I think it is safe to say that Pirata's roads are in mysterious ways and how they form their stand. I haven't figured that out from the talks that Pirata's been holding. But what I may find the most difficult to do when I listen to them is that presumptuous conviction in Pirata's members because they understand things correctly and others get it wrong, if they disagree with the Pirates who talk at each other. I have not been so convinced of my own worth as I have of this party, the Congress of Porta, for a long time. I can tell you in my own way that there are a lot of things in this case that I would like to get better explanations and better interpretations on. There are countless questions that were raised toward the end of the committee work that could not be answered. They were asked for visitors who were not called to the Foreign Affairs Committee. The members of the Central Party and I have been asking countless questions during the hours we have been here. Although we are convinced that this case should not be quickly completed, I cannot overempt this tremendous conviction for my own ability to perform it. [[The president calls.]] There's nobody else in this house. How the Piranians find out about the cable, I don't trust to guess. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. But the reason why I ask is that I think that last night and the night, the discussion has deepened considerably. She's still deepening. I wonder, after all the tours this has taken place, whether it is wrong to think that at the introduction of this form from the European Union, the reduction of a administrative notice, we have come to some conclusion that there will be no real exception to the fact that everything in the induction is going to come to Iceland. The reason I asked about this thing with the cable is because I wondered if there's a way, not just for Pirata, but for anyone, being able to follow the induction in this way, but at the same time, in contrast to part of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u134	A respectable president. It's an interesting cheek next to what's happened. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. I think what has happened since the second. It began last week, while supporters of the Parliament's resolution proposal were reluctant to participate in the discussion, new information, alleging that the end will be just exactly what Regulation 713 and 714 will say, for example, there are many, the Pirates I think all of them, that there's no need for warning, they're not necessary. It's just the way it is. So I'm confused with Pirata, and I can't remember but one or two. þm. The Helgi Hrafn Gunnsson, that he made his point, may be more. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I don't think their opinion is very deep.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. So one might wonder, " What is the best interests of us Icelanders? ' What's the benefit of consumers? What's the benefit of the public? It has specifically discussed consumer protection. We've got senators coming up in a pit and saying it's so important because of consumer protection, you could start buying electricity from more than one electrical dealer. But now it's just a fact, and a fact. A senator mentioned it earlier tonight, that it is best to try things for himself and recognize them on his own. The person standing here has tried these very things and on his own skin, as they say. Since I am heating up my house with electricity, I have tried to get the electricity less expensive because it is expensive to fan out with electricity and to increase substantially during the induction of an energy package alone. But the fact is, and the truth is, there's very little difference between these energy companies, so they don't pay and they don't have anything to do with trying to change energy sales. This is only a fact that should be promoted, and especially to those members of the council who have blown it out as such a great protection by consumers. But it is clear that it is the European Union's will for this to go through and the officials. They've been working so hard on it, and it's gone so far, etc. And then there's a panic that if we don't make it, it'll ruin the Norwegians. But I remind you, they haven't been very loyal to us when it comes to making a deal for fish farmers. But I'd like to get a second opinion. That's exactly what a senator is supposed to do with consumer protection, whether these words are not completely increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. The short answer is: Yes, I think there's a lot of potential consumer rights working on the induction of the third energy package. It has been said in a number of discourses, with an incredibly high proportion of the talks held by the restitutions, that consumer protection will now be greatly improved. I don't know any better than changing power dealers today is not a problem. This shift took place in the early stages, and I don't think there's any chance for it, even though the third energy pack is created. I have to admit, I think there's a lot of alleged consumer protection. When asked about the changes in the timeline from the introduction to the sea cables, these changes have been thrown into the air, primarily from consumer protection and transparency. I don't know what it is that men are referring to in there. It's just as it is, the access to choosing an electrician is present today and there's no change in being there with this induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't think people have realized that the energy market in Iceland is small compared to the common market in Europe that the so-called consumer protection is of no importance. She's actually gone worse. Of course, we had special contracts to reduce house - to - house heating costs for companies buying electricity at night, etc., which included inexpensive electricity, which was forbidden by the induction of a energy package alone. That's all I can see, but the consumer protection just got worse. That's exactly what we face with this pack of three, that electricity comes up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u138	A respectable president. Yes, I would like to agree with what. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. The news you get is everyone in that direction, pointing towards that direction, that there will be no plus. As I said here earlier today, with president's permission, what's in it for us, what's in this for us? There has been incredible few answers in relation to the time had by the supporters of the bill, the introduction. Based on their ability to engulf here four warnings that then turned out to be something completely different, one would have thought that a better explanation was made for what the benefit of consumers would be involved in this introduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I was particularly interested in what he was talking about in the politics of this case. No one is surprised to learn that, in particular, the two groups that are very anxious to reach the European Union are in existence on this issue. It's not surprising. On the other hand, the conversion to both the independent class and the left green has been a big surprise. Pears are naturally in the unique state of intolerance to the opinions of others and feel that they have the one pure tone. What might surprise us about Pirata is that they attend, that they are said, most accompanied by young people, but it is, of course, our young people who are coming to pay off the cans being introduced here. Of course, as I told you earlier, the media dangled with a problem and, as I said before, turned around in this case like a dog chasing their tails in the air, has temporarily stopped. But I'm going to wait and see the end of the story before I believe it, just like Laddi and Ladda said about this year, with President's permission: I'd like to see it. But I'd like to ask what. The senator's comments are: What does he consider to run, e.g. A group like Pirata, who, of course, should have followed younger people, into wanting to hang this millstone around the neck of his voters for a long time? I'd like to ask you what. A senator in particular. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator, because I know that he was a practical member of the Independence Party, what he thinks has led the Independence Party to turn over so completely and walk by what we sometimes call "the good old hold"? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. For Piratana, I think that it shines against the plutonium character of the party, which does not seem to escape any opportunity to jump on the bus of what they believe is likely to be popular and worthy, as in the particular case we deal with here, flatly exposés of those who are unconcerned views as retrospective, isolationists, and I don't know in any other fanciful words of doubt about this induction. I think it's the basic analysis that is behind the decision of the great body on either side of the body of the council. Regarding the Independence Party, I had little faith in trying to figure out what caused this reversal. We've once seen a twist on a case that we now know how it developed and went, a rotation where it could be said that the leadership of the party has gone against the nuclear policy, as if I allow myself to define it, although, of course, it is not the holy truth. Perhaps people are on a similar journey today. I'm sure it's not on purpose. But how this decision was made, I trust not to rule; but I fear that it will be evil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. In itself, we do not need to discuss the progress of the forward party in this matter. It goes where the wind blows, as it used to be. On the other hand, I would love to hear what happened. A senator has to say about this crippling turn of left green, for as shown in the speech of another senator earlier, they are talks as the current highest. In his day, the President of the Generals moved against the first and second supply of energy, presumably one of the most elaborate talks he's ever given, I believe in, perhaps at a maximum of 10◯50. But because he hasn't moved one of us right now, which would be a good thing if he did, I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he realizes what causes the left of the green to turn so completely on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u142	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, thank you for your counter-sponsored response. Now it could be the highest. I'm sure the president will answer that question better than I am, but I'm going to try. I perceive it so that many people believe that the left is green by nature the ruling group. It has surprised many, first in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir since 2009-2013 and since the present government, how ready a band of greens is to deviate from their previous policy, expected to keep the government community working going. Of course, it's just honorable as far as it goes, that's part of working together. But I have doubts about the backland, the grass roots, as I think it is called in the left green, when this matter is established, it will be well with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u143	And there is a discussion on the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 92/2017, change in IV. Annex to the EEA Convention. The president allows him to review the subject on the program in the light of a general custom of sticking to the subject. [[I'm glad you're in the way.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u144	Mr. President. In this regard, it is necessary to examine the trend in neighboring lands. You may then, for example. For example, in Denmark the hedge fund has been buying up the distribution systems of electricity owned by the public for 100 years. Norway, a country that produces much more than enough electricity, has begun to develop a large structure of windmill gardens in natural spheres, which is supported by German investors. If we specifically look at Sweden, which is very informative, the Swedish electricity system was very successful and safe when Sweden entered the European Union at its time. But now more than two decades, as it were, from the EEA directives, the energy system in that country has deteriorated dramatically. It was originally said that the European Union's regulations would increase competition and efficiency, making electricity less expensive and better options for buyers. Granted, consumer options have increased in that country, but the consequences are bad. Energy prices for users have gone up high at the same time as the owners of the private energy companies take out billions of dollars from these companies. If we take a closer look at Sweden in this same context - because it is necessary to examine the neighboring countries and what their experience has been about being in this competitive environment of the European Union, which it stresses so much - the maintenance of the Swedish electricity system has deteriorated significantly. Of course, there is a lot of concern about electricity, because it is at high risk if maintenance is not good on these systems. Thereafter, there has been a marked decrease in the job security and pressures on employees. The government made sure, before it was personal, that the system was safe, but when the companies are split up and involved in this competitive environment, it's all going to be worse. This is not unique, Mr. President. The same kind of European directives have mismanaged railroads, mails, and telephones, gas companies, and flying. It is generally so that this type of privatization, such a socialist component, will result in a lack of maintenance. Because of the personal companies'requirement for making more money, there are ways to save, and this takes on the maintenance. That's exactly what I think it's gonna be here. When it comes to selling energy out of the country, companies who are already on their own will see great opportunities, which will be followed by a higher demand for profit, which will then take on the maintenance of these important human activities. There is much we can learn from our neighbors in these matters, Mr. President. And the common name for all of this is that the privatization of energy has never brought good results. [[The president calls.]] We know from home, since the temperature of Southnes was private, that it had many consequences for users, especially in the form of higher energy prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u145	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk that features boils, the Birgir of Þórarinsson was given. Here we go. A senator entered very significant points, i.e. what's going on in the states around us that have already introduced a three-pack of energy, or given a statement that it will be fully introduced. It shows that the investment of private partners in previous public and public employment systems, or countries, for the benefit of the public for the general public, is the case today. Why do private people invest in such workers? That is hardly to the point of losing your investment or having no hope of profit, but it is the opposite. Invest investors to gain money. They are in what is called the English tongue ◯in the business of a matey money. Then we come to the point we've been trying to find out about here for some time. What causes it? What is the motivation for us to produce now, if this Parliamentary decree is achieved, into an Icelandic dish of right energy in Iceland that is not linked to the EU's inner market? I'd like to have a senator's meditation on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good answer. It introduces just anything that really matters in this discussion: What is the motivation? Why does the government not want to try to receive this permanent release? Is this because the plan may be that we come to implement and participate in this market area? Is it really true that people listen with great interest, even applying the wishes of an enterprise such as Landing, which has declared that it is important for us to submit to this directive and to be placed in the sea cables? I remind you that the director of the Contics has said that it is not a question of whether a cable will come but when it will come and it will be shorter than many. This has been said by the director of national activation, showing that there are forces behind it which consider it very important that we submit to this directive. We are preparing the soil to sell this energy from abroad into the European Union common market. We also see that land is being purchased here. There is a plan for windmill parks, foreign investors to consider them and investors to buy priming options, etc., indicating that this preparation is in place. If we were to receive a permanent release, these sources may have been cut off. That is why you think: Is it these interests that continue to drive this issue? [[The president calls.]] Sadly, you may think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u147	V.E.G. President. This is where the tools are being peeled off. Interesting wording. Hv. In his speech, a senator suggested that options had increased to form in Sweden, but the interests of consumers had not improved. With increasing market opportunities, people should be able to choose whom to do business, as has been shown to be the case. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of State, the benefit of consumers should be improved. But we look at it in the countries around us that it is not. And then we ask ourselves, " What is it in a pack of three energy that is so desirable for me and Icelanders? ' Or is it not something that is desirable for us Icelanders, speaking of us as a nation? Is there just something attractive in a pack of three energy for some Icelanders or some foreign people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's a very interesting point by which. Senator. Is a pack of energy worth three for some Icelanders, not the nation as a whole? Of course, that's what you've been wondering. There are many things in this environment that we must put into context and compare with the countries around us. There's got to be some reason why a company like Land induction thinks it's a promising option. Yes, it must be because they can sell their energy out of the country. It must be obvious. You can only import this energy package, this directive. So once the cable's in, we're ready to sell the energy out of the country. It only applies to the market laws on supply and demand and prices. [[The president calls.]] Then I think Iceland's consumers will be second rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u149	Mr. President. The discussion is still deepening. More pieces are added to this picture that we have been drawing up in this discussion over the last few hours and during the previous week and before. Thank you. A senator's talk of great worth, and it raises questions. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " In neighboring lands, a senator has given financial support to those who have enormous profits but who are poorer than the quality of the public. And then you must ask yourself and one of the questions we've raised in this discussion repeatedly: When more private people are getting their hands full of energy markets in Iceland, is it likely that they will develop a competitive pressure for men to cut off in Continents and even demand that it be replaced? Is that a realistic option? Now I'd like to ask you what. In view of what he was telling us: Is it possible for this package to be approved, provided there will be an increased competition for the electric market, that any people who come into the market will require and will receive domesticization?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. In answer to this question, a senator and a very interesting reflection on land activation. It is quite clear that the aim of this Directive and the European Union's aim for increasing competition is required for large parties to be divided because there is an opposing competitive policy that there is one dominant party on the market. I can't see unless there's any national inactivation that will go through and when we're connected to the European Union, the requirement is to have a division by which we don't get any special status in this way, not unless we get a permanent reserve for which we middle-class people have much to do with this room, but get a small sound base for the board of directors. It is fear that they are motivated by fear. It is never good when governments are governed by political fear of seeking justice. Interestingly, politicians who have been in politics for years, if not decades, do not realize it. They are controlled by fear that the deal will be in a state of confusion. I have to say, Mr. President, I don't think it's such a thing to think that politicians have to look into themselves who they're working for and who their clients are. [[The president calls.]] That's the Icelandic people. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. I don't think it's a coincidence that there's been some strong foundations in the Icelandic community right now, which, in itself, is strange under the leadership of the left green. The power system's run-in. The government's exclusive right to sell alcohol. Our transport activities are being drawn up. They are searching for ways hidden and clearly to privatize all these items so that private workers can profit at the cost of the nation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with my opinion and whether he is as surprised as I am that these events happen on the left-hand watch of the Ministry of Premiers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u152	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I certainly agree. A senator with it and I'm surprised to think that the left green, now in the head of the government for the first time, should speak for it and try to run through a case that involves the introduction of electricity into the European Economic Area. And I'm just saying, it looks like this company has become a marketing party. They must be serious thinkers who have supported this class. I seriously doubt that the outfit would have had such a success in the last election if voters had known that it would speak to them and try to get it through as short as a short time as possible that Iceland's electricity would be marketed in Europe. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President, I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u153	A respectable president. I hope that the President forgives me, but I'm going to begin, because I decided not to spend our time in a meeting board, I'm going to make a comment to the President's words, as he read the long title of the case that is now being discussed and asked us senators to keep up with the subject. Of course, it is part of the discussion that is taking place here to discuss the reversal of the classes that continue to lead the matter. Of course, that wasn't what I was going to talk to Birgir Þórarinsson, but this saved a considerable amount of time on a meeting board and gives us the opportunity to discuss the matter further in a pontta. But, hey. paritaprevir Birgi Þórarinsson - I thank him very much for the talk - would like to ask: There is a viewpoint that is well - known and also among those who remain on the increase in private business and so forth, that at first be careful in areas where there is no real competition, and market does not offer that real competition builds up. How does it look at what you are looking at? In the context of the sections, a senator would want to introduce this rule of the EU's third energy package, considering that the introduction of one of the packages was in such a way that men even went so far to the lower limit of normal. In one case, less than 100,000 were marketed, a reference was moved to 10,000 here in Iceland, and so on. It's what it is. A senator who is underlining the Icelandic market in shoes that do not fit him?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think you're absolutely right about what you're doing. Senator. The power grid, the electrical market, is being introduced into a market that does not belong to it, and our situation is very different. We can only see the consequences of this for us. We can see that, for example. in the electronic prices we've mentioned here on house warming, companies with special contracts, etc. All of this was only crossed out with one pen mark, with a Brussels pen, and was not relevant to our situation. What is perhaps the most serious thing we know, and I'm going to get in more detail about a talk here, is what happened to Southwater. This shift, this requirement from the European Union, provided the basis for the private nature of the city's living fever. There is one of the biggest political mistakes in Iceland that has been made to see how the good business owned by the South was personal and then made into foreign parties. Who would have believed that it would? But the basis for all of this was just this energy package, or Directive one and two. We will then see that when the three energy package comes, or the three directive is introduced, the possibilities of this kind are being further opened to the consumers'being extremely adverse. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying, Mr President, we've been having a bad time with this, and that's why we're supposed to turn down this energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer for the answer. As I said in my previous answer, there are times when it is tried to overcome a system that fits for larger communities, and communities which are different in rural conditions than Iceland, where national boundaries e.g. Together that will now be late for us Icelanders. Who thinks what? A senator for why we Icelanders seem so greedy to want to introduce things in a way that the order of millions of nations is introduced into our little nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think part of the explanation is even historic, i.e. That we are a small nation, but, at least in my opinion, we are somewhat afraid of the greater, we were afraid to maintain our unique position. This is reflected in my opinion on this very matter. Here we are a small nation, but we have a contract with the European Union, which is a natural empire, as it were. However, we are afraid to maintain our right in this agreement. To me, simply this is why: Politicians lack the boldness to make a decision, not allowing officials and those in this field to control themselves in such matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u157	V.E.G. President. Now my mind wanders, and especially after my speech. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. A discussion of the main interests of driving an energy pack of three has been conducted using the methods we have discussed. Recently, on May 17, an article published by Hildur Sif Thorarensen in the Web site The Wills. As an engineer, a man who has studied electrical energy has been of no help. She ponders about the future in Iceland's energy markets and investment incentives, as well. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms came in earlier, in the sector of an island that is already producing enough energy, and in fact beyond energy, but the island is not connected to the electrical systems of other countries, so it is difficult to see who should be selling more energy than is currently produced without changes in existing connections to the electrical systems of other countries or markets. I would like to read from this article, with the permission of a president: For information on land activation websites, there is a number of interesting information to be found, including That in Iceland every year we have 1.9 TWst of excess energy, the excess energy that Landing has considered selling away through a cable. This amount accounts for about 10% of the energy produced by Landactivation per year and is therefore considerable. What is surprising in this context is that during the past few months, each report after another has appeared about people who are interested in the use of power in Iceland. Among these are the company of Zephyr, who is interested in installing windmills in Iceland and owned by Norwegian rural communities and states. Since such companies may not engage in a major business venture, it is well to ask, " Why is there interest in windmills and windmill gardens in a country where there is plenty of energy and no way of moving them out of a country where there is no sea cable? ' However, it is not only the Norwegians who have shown interest in activating in Iceland, but the company, according to the web at the Power Institute, has a six - study permit for water - power activation. A report from RUS reports that the company belongs in part to the representative of the Einarsson Party, a close cousin of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and Eyþór Arnaldur. Again, it is only natural to wonder why this great interest is available in a country where there is no energy shortage. According to a news report on mbl.is, an Icelandic energy exchange, founded by the Bjarni Ármannsson, made a contract for electrical exchange with 65 gigawatts at the beginning of this year. So there are more investors who have shown greater interest in energy trade in Iceland and it seems that there is an interest in increasing more than a dollar this loss. In Iceland there are seven geographers who are employed, but looking into the website of the Power Institute, 34 are allowed in force for such activation. It is clear, therefore, that the number of activations is growing in Iceland, large and small, and it appears that interest and implementation are not consistent with the energy demand in the country, dr. the 10% excess energy mentioned at the beginning of this article. Finally, the Heiðar Guðjónsson, the Icelandic economist, investor and newly appointed director of the telecommunications and media society are shown. Heiðar are no innovations at the financial market, but they are involved in HS hosts as well as in SSB energy that intended to generate activation in the Black River. It is clear, therefore, that foreign and domestic investors are interested in putting their money into fortresses and companies on the fortresses in Iceland, although it is impossible to understand the reason for this interest. One thing is certain, wise investors, such as this do not place large amounts of money in a losing business. V.E.G. President. Could it be that any grain of truth is found in the conclusion of the authors, that the above people, investors, do not plan for losses or invest in unlikely opportunities for interest? Are we there perhaps at this point and have yet to find another incentive to produce the product? Is it more motivated than a fear of upseting the EEA deal, whatever it means? It was interesting to listen to what happened. Birgir The Þórarinsson before in a speech in which he covered news that, if possible, has appeared inside the Energy World, about Denmark and Norway and France, where the hedge fund is buying out a public - service network, or, like Norway, where the structure of the wind energy parks is financed by German investors and in France for the division and development and the privatization of water supply companies since March. I think all the evidence points to the obvious fact that electricity markets are being introduced and sold to Europe, whether they believe it or not, all of which are protected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It points to the important thing, which is that humans are putting themselves in great positions here, many of them, to exploit the resource and perhaps to exploit it. So with this energy package there is an increased opportunity for such events. What I marvel at in this matter, one of many points, is how it is made up. This case has been presented in a way especially after the appearance of the serious doubts presented in the opinions of the two Westerns Frildur's Friðriksson Friðrik and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, to make it a special priority. Then this is suggested in a way that seems paradox, that, on the other hand, the types are being introduced, but in some way not because the defences are supposed to make sure this doesn't occur, at least not while a sea cable is not present. This has been very clear and thought - provoking since I received an answer. A senator, chairman of the Party of Independence, last Wednesday when I asked if he had seen the warning. He said something about the fact that the more part of the council would settle this issue on legal matters, etc. And you ask yourself: " What evidence can people expect in international cooperation to accept any warning that may be taken on the basis of the greater part of the matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u159	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson's great for his counter-sponsored response. It is true that this is the case, and it has actually been shown that this special plant is less likely to be offered at the European Economic Area Convention. If I remember correctly, it is now a long time in the night, and I may be reminded of it in the age of 97. The contract should be implemented as it occurs, i.e. without warning. I don't know if I'm correct in saying the wording, I may be corrected. This tells us that these home-made watchmen are nothing more than ornaments to home bridges. They will not keep any water. It is quite clear in this case as well as in others, and it has been entered several times and compared to the raw meat case because we know from a very close time, that the warnings made by the Norwegians were eight. It has been promoted as evidence from the accompanying energy package that they are examples of warning us and that they will. But they're not really being tested for anything, nothing at all. As a result, they drop the evidence dead. I can't see that the models we're going to put will be different than that it's added to the EEA joint committee and that they'll gain that legal value during the induction here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He mentions the two things that come to mind when discussing this subject. On the one hand, it is the great number of warnings that I think of eight people, including the Norwegians and especially the Norwegian workers, and the comparison with the meat business. It is somehow so in this case that it is as if no one has worked to explain in any way the method that I referred to in a previous answer - no one has explained how such a premise, if present, would fall into the European Convention on the Economic Area, because the covenant is quite clear in that topic. He assumes that at the scene of the joint committee that makes it possible, let's say something like that, and then if there's a problem, as in Iceland now because there's a lot of turmoil in this community and a problem because people are not interested in seeing this energy package introduced, then the course is defined at 102 and 103. The deal. It's all there is to it. It's all clear. It's a contract. It is clear. But no one has explained how the so - called legal entity, if it exists at all, and if ever it should be found, there will be a regularity, including the European Economic Area Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u161	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his counter-sponsion. No, that's right. These models seem to appear to come up and dry up just as they grow, and as they grow, the less likely they will be. There have been various points in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of the Aargians, quoted earlier. The first reference was first made that the warnings were oral. When questioned, why? A senator and president of the day. The Foreign Affairs Committee is supposed to include them in the Senate arrangement itself and to be reassigned to a court order of entry. During my conversation with the State Department's representative, I was told that the officers were not put in on the inside but were committed to the Constitution, i.e. to keep water from the constitution itself, but not to prevent the introduction of a three energy package into the same form. So these models constantly change and seem less likely to speak as we speak. I have to say, I agree with the senator that it is so unlikely that it would be so hard to go in such nonsense with the council and the nation, because the council is declaring it, no matter where they stand, that they do not want to introduce a pack of energy unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Þóðdirsson very much for this speech. He stayed with Norway, so I wanted to draw attention to the fact that in Norway, as far as I know, there's a lawsuit going on because of the recording of the third energy package there and also because the eight warnings made in itself have become wind and smoke. I've thought about it in this discussion, just from the beginning, if it wouldn't be expected for us Icelanders to see how the recording of the third energy package angers in Norway, i.e. whether the current lawsuit may end with the conviction that he will be sentenced, to a administrative court in Norway, inequated because he does not pass Norway's constitution. Perhaps it would have been a reason for men here to seriously consider waiting a little bit for this. We've been talking about in this discussion, in the previous year, then last week, and now, the rush in this matter. The question is, Are people thinking about putting this matter to safety before a political court in Norway executes its judgment? They may be afraid of it here, and now I'm asking who. The senator of these two questions, that this very conclusion, will be held in Norway, i.e. that the European Court finds that the third energy package does not meet its constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u163	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father is a great man for his counter-sponsored response. Here we come up with another problem, that litigation is still going on because of the induction of the third energy package, and if it wasn't right to wait and see how that situation goes. I'd think there were some very reasonable questions there because there's no hurry here for us. There's nothing in this energy package that will catch up for us Icelanders to come in, at least it's not shown in the language of those who come with the energy package. I guess that's why I'm here. A member of the Council for a conflict in the Norwegian Court to determine whether there is a significant or minor office of authority. It is therefore different in Norway than here where we live, when it comes to signing power, that our Constitution is silent on such records, but in Norway, if I am correct, a change in the constitution was made allowing for a slight power supply without a change in constitution, i.e. increased part of the vote. If I remember correctly, it was three-fourths, rather than five-sixth, I think it would be in Denmark. But are they afraid of the Norwegian decision? You may want to finish biting your head off before you see what happens there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u164	Mr. President. This raises up the discussion that has been on the part of those who want it done, i.e. The opinion has been made that we are either through the past 25 years of the EEA contract so heavily handed over to the EEA that we have already canceled that there will not be one blood-sludger in the slaughter season with these packages. And people have actually claimed that it is a small difference, not a profit, to accept this package for that very reason. I'd like to hear an opinion of something myself. A senator on this particular point, that men may just be - and now I'm talking about those who believe in taking care of this package - they've talked about being dull in this matter, i.e. by saying, "Hey, this doesn't matter because we've done it so many times before. It grieves with what it is. A senator was talking about, that in our constitutions, there is no authority to this exposition as clearly as in the national Constitutions around us. And one of the arguments, excuse me, Mr President, has been that we just need to adopt a new constitution of this law, and then the case is solved, with expeditions. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a second's opinion. The senator's reaction, whether this is the case, may have made us feel drowsy just because we have gradually given authority to others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u165	V.E.G. President. I once again thank the senator for the answer. Whether or not people have talked about being dull here, and there's not one contest in the slaughter season, it's a bit different and not a bit of money -- I think we can think of some who have maintained the protection of the package's induction but not all of them. You see, I don't think much of the senators want to hand over their power and that by all means they want to keep warnings. In some incomprehensible way, people have appealed so that with these so - called omens, it is absolutely certain that the skeptics who have been present in the public office and held talks are made high above their heads that they can confidently pay their votes. However, those who consider this difference not to be money and may go further and do not consider it to be of any importance because their minds are directly involved in walking in the European Union. I understand much better than that, their sincere conviction is that we Icelanders are better off inside. I can well respect the view that it is not what I have, that they think it is actually just one step in that direction -- bit difference but not money, that it is really a natural process in getting us Icelanders forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u166	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u167	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 1036, subscribe to newspapers, magazines, and other media, from Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u168	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Ministers, and Marine and Agriculture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u169	Mr. President. All recent studies show that mankind is the most direct target of a dramatic crusade. Although Iceland is in many ways well-provable in green energy sources, the average emissions of each Icelander are two-fold per European population. Research shows that our carbon footprints are increasing, and greenhouse gas emissions increased by 2.2% at the latest measurements. We will not be able to meet any international commitments without rapid energy exchange, including in transportation. Witchcraft has gone much further to electricalization of transport. They're raising funding for development projects, and they're about to fly with electrical engines. The United Nations Interim Committee has calculated to defend the need for 2.5% of land production during climate surgery. We're spending 0.25% on a climate plan. Considering the environment in the government's five-year financial programme only 0.2% increase in donations is expected. This is not in accordance with the radical action necessary to attack if Iceland is to keep water in the fight against climate change. During the past few months, young people and children have practically yelled at action, and there is a growing awareness of society in general, and the danger becomes more obvious each day. The United States feels that it is necessary to act on every aspect of national life in the form of a green community covenant. My questions to the highest. Thus, prime minister is very simple. Does it feel that the government's plan of action is going far enough? Does it think that 6.8 billion is sufficient to support the need, according to the United Nations, ten times greater? Is this government brave enough to raise carbon pay applies to what the last government planned at least To do? [[The president calls.]] And it'll be the highest. Prime Ministers consider the UN Action Programme that assumes a green treaty that embraces national life?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up this important matter. I'd like to start with that as long as possible. The senator concluded on, i.e. His proposal for a green community contract. I think it's the thought we're all supposed to make here at the Council, how we can integrate our policy with everything else we do. At the last meeting of the European Commission with the labour market, a new national body was discussed, which will establish in connection with collective agreements, and hopefully it will turn out well. The concept has so far been to discuss economic and social stability specifically, but it also discussed that the environment must be part of that discussion. The trouble has been that, and there I join with the oar. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, that the environment has been a matter of business, not to be discussed with other factors. When discussing employment policy, when discussing economic or economic policies, we need to keep the environment in place. For one thing, my government is putting great emphasis on this suit. Is it enough? asks why. Senator. We, as we presented our climate action program, said that it would have to be an ongoing review because the trend is rapid in this series of issues. We know that although our goals are ambitious in international languages, this discussion is changing rapidly. Now we've set our goals for non-carbon Iceland 2040. The first steps to reach this goal are the energy exchange in transport. There we can see significant changes already, which include: The result of the indiscriminate effects of the law against electrically powered vehicles and motor vehicles that go for renewable energy sources. The new registrations of such cars, as we look at homes in the country, are 20%. We need to reach that ratio very quickly. The Norwegians are there before us, and of course we need to look to how we can do this quickly, and that is what we do. by extension structure. I'll find out in my later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u171	Mr. President. It's good to be a top dog. A minister agrees with the Synod's resolution of the United Nations - and that's why Pirata - is the case that is not meant to be in the gaps between different categories of Congress. That is exactly what we need to start to think about, perhaps in the spirit of a sexual economic regime, in which all these issues are held together. But, Mr President, it's not just about climate images. It's about climate surgery, not packaging, it's about operations. The financial program is certainly discussing the cycle economy, but I don't see a complete approach and no plan to make peace and cooperation. In other words, there are no radical changes in financial programs. Of course, these things change from day to day, and it's becoming more conscious. I challenge a minister to keep this in mind when financial plans are restored and will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u172	Mr. President. As I said at the end of my previous answer, the government's contribution to transport energy exchange must be building up the infrastructure needed to contribute to the infrastructure, especially between areas, builds up so that we can ensure the electricalization of transport across the country. This is just one aspect of what needs to be done. Similarly, we are setting ambitious goals and considerable money on increasing carbon bonds, which must always be part of this program. Then I want to say it, because of what. A senator mentions the ratios to climate as expected by international institutions that are not just expected to be made up of public donations, though they are certainly important. I do not give up in saying that professional life must be fully involved in this matter to meet the challenge ahead. I want to be happy because I have felt that my job life is declaring it very strongly that they want to participate in this project and that this project needs to be shared. We will not succeed unless government, government, rural society, and professional life come together. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up. We're allowed to discuss these matters much more here at the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u173	Mr. President. They were important and clear, the messages we got over the morning coffee in the News magazine today. Nearly 300 young people from all sides joined together and bought ad to support free and international society. The ad's headline is: "Don't play with our future. " Then it says: "We support continued participation in Iceland at the EEA Convention. We want free, open, and international society together to resist isolationism. It has become quite clear that we who believe in free, open, international society must stand together, against political lines, and thus resist the misunderstandings and skeptics that have been controlled the discussion of our participation in the international community for far too long. In fact, when it comes to the fact that these young people decided to care for the future, the sowings of these skeptics are already on the rise. That's how it went. These individuals are not windowscrowded, as has been said of young, prospective, and talented people who may threaten the existence of narrow vision and retreat. The young people in the advertisement were not presented. Rather, they stepped forward on their own terms and expenses because they are tired of these minas, repetitious records, and not being listened to. Let us not fall into them, for we saw what happened, e.g. correspondent in Britain and the United States We do not want it to happen here that this is where the divisive spirit and the unprecedented rise of national polygamy during this 21st century come to grips. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: How will prime minister, an experienced politician, use himself to become more familiar with the voices of young people? How's the top? The prime minister to use himself as the head of the government so that these statistics for the involvement of Iceland in precious international cooperation are not beyond the reach of questionable propaganda? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u174	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's inquiry and first will say that I think it's very important that we, as we sit here at the Council, listen to the voices of young people. Hv. Einarsson Logi also referred to their voices in connection with climate. Today, young people clearly speak in this advertisement about the importance of international cooperation and cooperation with other countries. It is true that cooperation with other countries has always been important to us in Iceland. Ever since the country was built, Icelanders have set aside to communicate with other countries. I think that there are few countries and nations who know better than those nations that are small and that make a great deal of their independence how important it is to communicate with other countries on an equal basis. Let us not forget, too, that international cooperation has brought many of the developments in history that I don't think any of us would want to do without. We can take, for example, the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. We celebrated her birthday last year, reminded me, unless it was a year, I'm so confused. This is one of the great cops of political history. I don't know if we would reach such progressive conclusions now that we see the support of international cooperation vibrating because of the forces that believe that the sovereignty is threatened by taking part in international cooperation. I must say, I thought it was a good question raised by District Attorney Skúli Magnússon, whether the Icelanders feared primarily their own sovereignty and decisions they made themselves. We as a small nation but at the same time a nation that appreciates their independence, probably better than a great many other nations - its history is not long, we welcome the 100th anniversary of a sovereignty here last year - we know how much it matters to be in such cooperation on an equal basis but to ensure that progress not only is at home but also from home. Of course, that is what these young ones call for - the right to live and work and live anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u175	Mr. President. Yes, I would like to agree with the prime minister in terms of the sovereignty. Me and the Icelanders have been very conscious of what we have done in international cooperation and who have been participants, competent participants, in international cooperation, thus strengthening our sovereignty, whether it is the EEA Convention, EFTA - I want to name NATO, so I do not speak of the United Nations, as mentioned. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because we received this striking advertisement with faces - they were not hiding, young people in this advertisement, cost the advertisements themselves, stepped forward, as I could before. Less than a year and a half ago, I asked the highest. Prime Minister to what she was going to do about the dark ads and the respected president of the United States in Polish. What was to be done? It was supposed to be taken care of. It's been a little out of the question, but I think today's ad reminds us that we can be honest with advertising that affects our political, our work here at the council. This advertisement is a reminder to all of us to be watchful when it comes to upholding the scepter of our international brotherhood. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What about the dark advertisements? [[The president calls.]] It is direct to the life and work and rights of the people in the advertisement today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u176	Mr. President. Hv. A senator here brings up a lot of important things, but I would like to say first that the generation that appears in this advertisement is the generation that grew up with the normal ability to go anywhere in the country, at least within the EEA, for study or work. There are rights that were not self-informed and were created because of certain decisions at the time. The EEA contract is now working on a report and how it turned out to be Iceland. I think it is also important that this work be completed so that we can discuss it here at the council. As for the dark advertisements, I have decided to request that a committee of information and expression freedoms which returned to me primary points in this field examine them specifically as well as what the executives of the political parties have been considering these matters in their work on total political law on political parties. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this is far more extensive. So I have requested to the chairman of the Committee that this committee take this particular matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u177	A respectable president. This caught my attention in the media at this weekend on Pétur's story and his Filipino wife to an almost 11 - year - old daughter of ten years. According to this report, Pétur is a patient. He can't work for his home. The woman's applying for visas in Iceland - think about her 11 - year - old wife. The daughter goes to school in the fall, but the mother is denied leave on the grounds that her family cannot prove that she can make a living. They do not show enough entrance to provide for the family, so the woman is sent abroad. It is reported that a woman cannot work for her family because she cannot reach the workforce because there are such high barriers. She does not have permission to try to prove that she can support her family. Then she is forbidden to be here, and she is sent out from the country on the grounds that she cannot work for her family. Is there something wrong with a system that makes it impossible? It's just a clean, smart impossible thing to do, so they can't even earn a living if they wanted to. A woman can't work for her family if she wants to. There we are. We also have humanity, and in this case, when we're talking about this sort of thing, we're about to break up a family and we're sending the mother out of the country. I'm asking. Isn't there a problem with a system like that, chief? Prime Minister? And is it not in our hands to try to prevent and keep such a thing from happening?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u178	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up. I'm sorry, I don't know the language of these individuals. But I'd like to say that when the alien law was accepted here at a council in its time, it was according to a very close cooperation between all classes. They were written in all categories. That's the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister spoke for the bill, which was the result of such work. The plan has been that each body member of Congress reviews the procedure of the law, i.e. how we think we have succeeded, of course, in creating a number of topics that, of course, cannot be expressed. I don't know the details of the case. A senator mentions. But I believe that the utmost reason for the council to care about it and to review it is to consider whether the act of the law that was accepted in its time after this great consultation is the way the council wants it. I'm not exactly aware of the activities of this Senate Committee. But I believe that there is a full reason and, in fact, time for her to review the issues that have been coming up, whether in the media or not, since we think that the facts need to be considered better. Of course, it is important that the procedure of the law be the way the council planned, and it certainly is, as it were. paritaprevir Sæland Goland notes that there should be a light of humanity. I can't express myself on this particular subject, but it's important that the council consider how they feel it has been carried out by the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u179	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. This special issue is public because it is presented in the media. I don't know anything more than what you have to read, and it gives you a little bit of a panic. You're upset that we live with the system that even though individuals are really willing to make the effort, things don't work out. The father of the household cannot work because he is a patient, the woman wants to work, but in effect, he wants to send her out of the country because we - and we have the right to change those rules - let's stop him from doing it by order. That's what I'm asking you about. Okay, great committee and all that. We hope it gives the best results, but during the time, we have these peripheral events that we're in hand with. That's what I wanted to get past the highest level. Prime Minister, if it is not within our power right here and now, something we can really do, to prevent us from reading such sad news as this report felt to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u180	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. Hv. A senator asks: " How can we react to specific matters? I think it is important, first and foremost, that the law is designed in such a way that the Council accepts their implementation. We have examples recorded in the Assembly Hall where members of Congress have not been satisfied with the procedure of the law or their interpretation. Then it is important to review it and make adjustments as necessary. But we must expect the law to be made in such a way that it is carried out in a way that makes the council feel at peace. I referred to this Senate committee earlier. I think it is also important that she, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, reviews the precise role she plays. In a government contract, it is specifically discussed that it should oversee the work of the law. Although they were very carefully employed at the time, we know that there is a question or interpretation, and there are other factors. Then I think it is very important that this interpolitary agreement manifests the will of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u181	V.E.G. President. The climate and carbon emissions related to the environment have been widely discussed recently and, indeed, in a recent talk just now. Now that we've been in a show on RUS, what have we done about the climate problem? Transporting flights, passengers and freighters, are an important part of Iceland's currency collection and have actually produced the economy of the postoperative years. A large number of jobs have been created, both directly and in secondary jobs. The newly invented aerodynamic bite is where people are asked if they have an aerodynamic bite, i.e. feeling guilty when travelling. People are encouraged to reduce the number of flights, which may especially include unnecessary flights, which may be excellent. But I think the fact is that companies who do this work, i.e. Transporters, who are keenly aware of these carbon emissions, have been working to reduce it for a very long time, both by changing methods as well as by technology technologies. I would like to direct especially two questions to the highest level. Prime Minister. Is it the policy of the Icelandic government to reduce flight to and from Iceland? If so, how?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u182	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a subject of what obviously creates a particular conflict. We're here with the aeroplane beam that has, like, a what? A senator rightly points out, be a very important feature of the economic structure of the past few years, and in reality lie in the same laws as the metropolitan industry in the years before collapse. It became one of the pillars under the Icelandic economy. These two sectors are now the largest emissions sources. They are part of the European Emission System while the government has stressed, in the first climate programme we presented in the fall, actions aimed at the release being measured in our release textbooks, the Icelandic government's release books. Therefore, we look to the transport that is part of that accounting and then to the extent of binding that can reduce emissions, e.g. ... fromagricultural. But what can be done with emissions from flight? Although it is measured in different systems, it is all the same atmosphere and effect. I had a good meeting with the spokesmen of an aluminium in Iceland, and I studied that there are several ways I can manage, e.g. for them to reduce their emissions. This can be done by means of a technology to bind carbon, which has been successfully restored to Hellisheic activation, for example, since carbon is pumped into a salty rock that binds carbon. We have seen in the fishing grounds that emissions from the fishing fleet have fallen by 40% compared to 1990, which is a significant factor and includes increasing energy efficiency and some other factors. Then you will need to wonder what you can do when it comes to air traffic and industry, which is a major source of emissions. That's why, as I came to my answer earlier than what. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson is so important that governments and professional life work together to succeed. I don't doubt it. A senator agrees with me that this is one of the biggest challenges we all face, not just Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u183	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. It's quite true that this is a bit of a problem because it's a conflict of interests that may be difficult to get together, apparently at first. I think it's important, when you decide on these matters, how and whenever they may be done, to remember that we Icelanders are certainly moving a lot of people and lips between countries, but we're still doing it for other countries at the same time. It may not be reasonable to wonder over us, that carbon emissions are our soleity, rather than blame the United States for the sole fault of producing planes or those who produce fossil fuels, that they are responsible for their emissions. Another example of this is the fishing of the Icelanders. We hunt enormous quantities of fish and produce food for the world. However, while significant emissions follow the world's production of these meals, this need to be taken into account that it is actually done for the world, not for the Icelanders alone. [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to put into practice the market and to trust the market to produce technologies that prevent further emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u184	Mr. President. Yes, and the first step to deal with this is to get a full view of the flight. Because it's not just passenger flights, it's moving, too, like a dog. A senator mentioned. This has been discussed about the need for special information on flying aircraft in the field of military exercise, which is sure to be a major source of emissions in this whole equation, and it matters that we have information about it. I also think it is difficult to take one sector out of parentheses because climate change is such that they need to influence our policy in all areas. I'm going, for example. to call attention to one thing that attracts food policy, for it is at its height. A seafaring and agricultural minister was introducing a new food trade policy. One reason is that consumers are informed about food footprints. Because of what? A senator speaks of Iceland's ability to contribute to the production of food, starting with how we can strengthen domestic food production here in a country where its share could be much bigger than we know, and we can greatly reduce the amount of carbon footage of transport to imported food. I think that if we look at the whole situation and think of how we can take one step at a time toward this important goal, we have an amazing number of parishions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u185	A respectable president. The third energy package discussion could be followed by a number of discussions. I'd like to talk to someone about it at the highest. Prime Minister, the way that discussion reflects deep distrust for the general public, the members of Congress, and the politicians. It is only very easy to believe that a council and a government over Iceland's resources and right to use them. A talk with a tasteful sense of suspicion has the advantage of anyone who tries to calm their nerves. In fact, trying to calm the nerves over one's head is disappointing - a sign of being united with the deadly forces that really control. There is no idea that a politician might have taken a good look at the matter and came to the right conclusion. Perhaps we have become so accustomed to this suspicion that we feel that it is a normal part of a democratic discussion. But it does involve a threat, a respectable president. Discriminatory is not to any politicians sitting at any time or responsible for the 2008 collapse; it is turning against the ability of democracy itself in order to make responsible decisions. Today, the rise of people who harbor such suspicions and are successful because there is, unfortunately, a grain of truth in their suspicion. The track's starting to scare. The politics have failed the test many times. Then politicians would like to add some form. I want it to be directed to the highest. Prime Minister that the image of the Generals does not need to be reformed, the Generals need to be improved. It is not a matter of our being comfortable here at the General Assembly but of whether democracy itself will continue to be trusted. There is a great, evil political tendency to pretend that all critical people are just about to be lost. Authorities feel that they are always very transparent and cooperative, not a ruler who feels that he himself is a victim of mismanagement. However, it does not mean to pretend that we are doing enough, and we must feel that we are not. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, not how we improve the image of the Generalis, but what we can do in order to stop needing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u186	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of this inquiry for a very big matter. In his talk, he said that no ruler felt that he himself was a victim of mismanagement. I expect him to be also talking about me and himself, for we are all rulers sitting in this room, aren't we? If we assume that they are correct, we will likely not get far ahead in this matter. Hv. A senator says the steps are scarred. The full - time ministry includes the trust shown by people. They are chosen to do certain things, and they may not be chosen again the next time they will be chosen because they have lost trust in and confidence in them. Nevertheless, this is the system we have and is essential to what we can call the liberal democracy. We have specific organizations and ensure that the structure of the structure is just and just, that we have courts that are fair and righteous, that we have a representative resolution that is placed in a natural frame. That discussion. A senator now refers to, as he says, the lack of confidence in the representative democracy is, I think, of a much greater matter, which is going on here and anywhere else in Europe and the west, which is undermines confidence in organizations in the general name of the politicians speaking to the nation, which they may not necessarily speak for part of it, and is about creating separateness in the community between those who consider themselves to be the nation and the others. Of course, this is a huge matter, and we can call it plutonium. Of course, Popeism is not something. Populism is a talk about bearing such separation and separation in society. Hv. A senator believes in me, that I have an answer to what I can offer in two minutes. [[The president calls.]] But I honestly believe that the distrust, as a boy, is quite the opposite. A candidate in his speech is moved by this speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u187	A respectable president. I was next inclined to scream from within the hall: How about Icezave? But I'm not gonna do what. A former senator would like that. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A minister said that the deputism included the idea that we were elected and that we would gain a firm confidence in that refuge. From a systematic point of view, that's exactly right. What I point to, however, is that we don't get that trust. We don't have that trust, and it's been a long time since we had it, anyway, from before a crash. We have never been able to regain the confidence they once had. There was a crash, apparently. Because people had an overwhelming faith in us there before we lost our faith in the collapse, and we haven't had our trust back. Yet, there has been quite some recent intervention in the Council, and a well - known period has passed. Yet trust won't come back. I agree with the highest. Minister of her criticism of the Pope. But what can we, who are not Populists, do to improve this trust? This is not enough to explain the distrust, which is so overwhelming and so luxuriant. What I would suggest is that we stop hiding behind the fact that we have been given some confidence through the system we live in. We need to act to show that we want to go as far as possible in increasing transparency, increasing our understanding, and having authority in the hands of the people when they want it. That's what it takes to build confidence in us, i.e. that we show our trust in the nation. [[The president calls.]] Isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u188	Mr. President. I could have said exactly what it was. A senator noted earlier that with increasing information and transparency, trust will increase. I can also say that, because I've been here at the council since 2007, that the transparency has become quite different from that, much more. There's been a change of information. They are now being re-elected for increased transparency. The government has completely changed its methods when it comes to agreeing with the general public on the preparation of bills and legislation and regulations. This has been done, but at the same time there has been no increase in trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u189	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u190	That's what I'm talking about. A senator suggested here, and I could have agreed, obviously not the answer. The answer, too, is not to replace people every few years, for like a dog. A senator rightly pointed to them as a renewal at the General Assembly has been very rapid, but this has not resulted in further confidence. But I'm not trying to tell you that everyone is alive in here. I don't think that's the answer. It is about founded distrust and the methods we have been using, and it is thought that the active substance will not work. I think this is just gonna call for a much more comprehensive discussion, Mr. President, and excuse the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u191	The president now apologizes, but he does not know whether a discussion on political life - keeping is intended for him in particular. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u192	A respectable president. 69 days ago, the European Court of Human Rights issued a decision that the United States did not comply with the order of judges to the National Court. For example, there is not much to say about the history of the matter. There has been a thorough trace of former justice minister in this hall. But the more important it is. Present justice minister informs members and the general public of the situation today and what is expected in the future. In view of the apparent random and poor preparation for the court before he died, it is necessary to have detailed explanations of the current work done by the Ministry and the courts to ensure the safety of the Icelanders. President. The process of judicial action must have been overcoming any doubt. It will never be stronger than the weakest link, and it is clear that the weakest link is the position of the land's rights. Therefore, it is necessary to hear from the highest source. The minister of what the government's purpose is to restore the trust of the nation so that our system of justice works out as expected. What is needed to restore confidence in the courts of the land? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When will the government send an appeal to the head of the Human Rights Court to Strasbourg? According to the media statement at the beginning of the month, this was to happen in the days to come. As a result, it must be made clear to any interest assessment that leads to the conclusion that further uncertainty about the future of the Country Court will lead to a better conclusion than to accept the sentence and correct the situation created here in March. It's time to go to the top. Minister on plan B and, in fact, plan C. What if the head of the department simply decides not to take over? If the case is addressed and the court's decision is simply confirmed, how will the government respond? I think I know that the highest. Ministers have prepared answers to these questions, and I look forward to hearing them. I'd like to let me put a few of these in perspective but also add a few, as many questions about this big issue remain to be answered. I am, for example. very curious about the highest position. In view of news that the day came in, a minister with regard to the court's own judgments and the role of the Court of Human Rights was that a former Justice Minister's assistant sent a memoraded note the day before the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. It seems that the document was worked with the sole purpose of preparing key points for members of the administrations so that the Court's decision could be counted if it were to be adverse to the State of the United States. Team 3 of the assistant Minister of Justice says, on permission of the president: In both its instructions and its interpretation, MDE has been outlined as well as in its judgments as to that it is primarily in the hands of the courts of Member States to interpret their own laws of the land. MDE does not dissociate unless it is a serious offense. This, in fact, is the correct interpretation of the trial of the European Court of Human Rights. It simply meant that the Court of Human Rights considered this to be a serious offense. According to Article 5, solutions from the European Court of Human Rights are not binding on Icelandic rights, according to Article 2. Convention on Human Rights in Europe, No. 62/1994 that Iceland is a sovereign state and has not handed over its legal authority to Europe. However, Iceland has committed itself to national law to enforce the results of specific matters, e.g. ... witha paymentofaddressingtoauthority. ▪ No Icelandic language that has gone to MDE has had similar support and has been confirmed by the Icelandic court, says the document. It also says that the emphasis is on Iceland's sovereignty and the solutions of the European Court of Human Rights is not binding on Icelandic rights, since judicial rights have not been delivered to Europe. In other words, the preparation was all open to deny that the Court of Human Rights has the authority to interpret Icelandic law and that such power had not been committed to European courts. I ask, in view of this memo, and in view of the fact that it matters to me, what is the highest attitude? A minister makes these notes: How will the matter be continued? It's the highest. A minister agrees that the European Court of Human Rights is in some way an intervention in Iceland's state or that the Court crossed the line?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u193	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this special discussion. First, the United States has already requested a repeat by the head of the European Court of Human Rights at the conclusion of the Court, which fell on March 12, in the matter of the Guðmundur son of Andri, the son of Ástráðsson against Iceland, for a month after I introduced in a meeting my government decision that the State would request a review of the Court's review of this court to this court. During this time, a thorough work was being done by a state attorney and specialist inside and outside the Ministry of Justice on the request that I stress that the problem would end in an irreprehensibly important matter in this country, in court, and in the United States government. This judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is unprecedented with a clear minor opinion and raises important questions about interpretation and implementation of the European Convention of Human Rights, which is a party in Iceland. That's why there was a request for a review. This judgment standard had an impact not only on land but also on Europe. There is no question when the United States will answer whether the case will be reviewed by the head of the court, but it is likely that it will occur within a few months and hopefully as soon as possible. I have previously presented my conclusion that while waiting for an answer, there will be no further intervention. I will continue to look into other aspects of the matter until we know whether the matter will be taken care of in a department or not. According to this, in this discussion, the Supreme Court of Iceland, our highest court, has judged the orders of all judges to the legality of the land. That example stands, and it has not been removed from the Supreme Court after the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights fell in March. According to this, 15 legitimate judges are thus appointed to the land's rights. In view of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, four of them have considered it to be unjudged at this time. We have committed ourselves to national rights to complete the European Court's judgments, which we know will fit into the corners of the courts or the government to respond to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. However, we do not have the nature of the matter, according to the definition of the judicial authority itself to Europe, by our involvement in the European Convention of Human Rights. If, in the case of the Guðmundur of Andri, the son of Ástráðsson against Iceland, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, will be primarily committed by our Supreme Court to determine whether the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights to the National Court, regarding the order of the judges to the Court and its legal rights, to bring back to the previous decision of the Supreme Court, that judges of the National Court are legitimate. At that conclusion, the judges themselves have the responsibility to evaluate their position as always. As a result, they will not be removed from their posts without a court order under the Constitution of Iceland. It is also worth reminding us that during the time of the judges, they are always independent of their jobs, valuing their own proper place to judge matters at any given time. Judges also decide for themselves whether they would like to leave their jobs, and judges will not be removed from their posts unless they are judged as required in the constitution. Therefore, it is not up to the minister of justice or to other executives of the country to take such action against certain judges. It is the responsibility of the European Commission to proceed with caution and ensure that its actions do not oppose the Constitution, the government of the land, and even the European Convention of Human Rights. Such reactions, which actually disappear in the matter of judgment, involve careful consideration of the underlying conclusions and careful consideration of the next steps. It is impossible to predict the preconceived judgments, so it is impossible to expound a government's response to an unscrupulous judgment or an unsurpassed review. The effectiveness of the courts and confidence in the judiciary system is a priority. I, along with the Ministry of Justice, continue to work with responsibility and management, to resolve these committees in accordance with the Constitution, current laws and the findings of the European Court on the implementation of law. Further actions on the basis of the European Commission will therefore be guided at all times. In terms of the number of resurgence requests received by the European Court of Human Rights, the Re-Electment Committee is an independent committee, and the Ministry does not have an overview of the requests for a comeback. Hv. A senator had requested information about this earlier today, so there has been no time to get the information. I've requested that they be earned by the Court of Justice. Finally, for a summary of former Justice Ministers, I would like to say that it is entirely normal for the assistant minister to take up material, whether before a council minister or a government party, and nothing was being minimized by the European Court of Human Rights or other things, but simply a review of the minister's position on the matter. I have nothing else to say about but that I hope the Minister's assistants continue to inform the administrative sector of all major matters that are in the council and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u194	A respectable president. The Ögmundur Jónasson of the former branch of the state left green has carefully studied the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights as discussed here. He has publicly said that the conclusion that human rights have been broken is fairy tales. It is bad and sad to witness this humiliation of the European Court of Human Rights. The more Ögmundur reads from the court-oriented position, the more amazing she is. Underneath this, you can take it. It is absurd that human rights have been violated in the case discussed in Strasbourg City. It is understandable, of course, that when a person receives a decision that he feels is wrong, he wants to look for a review of it. Still, people should be careful not to panic. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is not binding in Icelandic courts. Icelandic law makes it clear that they are not. It would not be up to judges or scholars to binding them. Individual officials in Strassbourg cannot change Icelandic rights by an explanation. If Icelandic judges would, in fact, automatically judge according to the results of foreign officials on Icelandic issues, they would be giving the judgment to the foreign officials. The government is now trying to get an approved third energy package from the European Union. Its members are told that loyalty was a great warning to the package, and it will stand. None of these premonitions are nearing the legal issue that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are not binding in Iceland. The General Assembly of the Icelanders approved the order of 15 judges in the Country Court. The president of Iceland confirmed the order of the judges after his own inspection. The court has judged the judges to be judicial. Iceland's Supreme Court has ruled that judges do not have legal rights and that these do not involve violations of human rights. This will not be gained by the reputation of foreign officials as long as Iceland is an ideal state. It may be understandable that those who consider the results of the greater portion in Strasbourn's false will give the upper court's department a chance to correct the outcome, but the results of such a review will be as binding in Icelandic as the current conclusion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All of the 15 national courts exercise judicial authority and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u195	A respectable president. During the past decade, there have been dramatic and positive changes in the legal rights of Iceland. I'm not going to call them revolutionary. It may not be desirable or popular language when it comes to the legal system. But much is involved and will no doubt be involved in the restoration of confidence in the judicial system. An intermediate level has been established and through intermediate evidence of appeal phase, an important factor in the treatment of righteous proceedings. The Court's work began last year and is now working on many important projects, including the area of ongoing education. More important, important changes in the law on the order of the judges have been made. Ten years ago, authority was high on that subject. The legislators were to be consulted by a local judge, but when it came to the order of the Supreme Court judge, it was the Supreme Court himself who was called to give a great deal of authority. However, a minister had made room for decision, thus creating an inevitable tension between these differing government support. As the legal adjustment of the order of judges since 2010, this was changed, as is known to everyone here. A minister was made to comply with the opinion of a judicial committee as to the order of a judge or otherwise to suggest a different proposal under the General Assembly. Thus, the general body was entrusted with more responsibility than before, and in this case we speak today, that responsibility was even more decisive, as stated in specific laws. Admittedly, it was an unusual task to appoint 15 judges on one board. The jury was put to the test in that case, the Minister of Justice, and then the General. In effect, all these parties received their share of criticism. This has led to a very undesirable uncertainty that is now being worked hard to resolve. I agree with that with the highest. Minister of Justice that this project requires careful attention and responsibility, and I hope that all of us in this hall put our weights on the scales to eliminate this uncertainty and to establish trust in the new but very important judgment level of the land's court.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u196	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you very much for this discussion on this crucial judgment level, intermediate court, the court of appeals of the National Court. This is one of the more important legal improvements we have seen in Icelandic history. How tragic it is that today we still have an uncertainty level! In fact, we have been unsure when it comes to national rights since former justice ministers, Sigríður Á. Andersen, made a decision to apply his mental ideas when ordering the lists of those who were to serve as judges in the land court. Since that day, since the summer of 2017, this uncertainty has existed, and many have been warned about this situation. Asked: What would a minister intend to do about the situation if the Court of Human Rights refuses? I'd also like to ask, "What's your chief plan? " If an appeal is accepted, will the Minister of Justice do it? Then we're also in the same uncertainty. Maybe that's where the real deal is. It seems that the government of Iceland is completely powerless to respond to the clear call of the Court of Justice to increase the number of judges against the United States rights without delay. Four judges at the National Court are not able to function, and in the fall they will be five. This is one third of all judges at the National Court. It is very serious when a judicial minister, temporarily mentioned, repeatedly declares both in the media and here on the Council of Justice's talk that she has no intention of doing anything. Don't do anything to help the justice system in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand this irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u197	A respectable president. Thank you. The advocate of this discussion and the importance of discussing the situation following the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I like the quality of my work. At the beginning of the case, a minister made an explanation for the detailed work done by a state attorney and experts before sending a request to be repeated by the European Court of Human Rights. A careful preparation of appeal to the Supreme Court is the basis for the possible answer to the matters of opinion that exist in the coming process. I also agree with the highest. As the matter gets clearer, a minister must continue to work with responsibilities and special consideration for the solution to the issues of opinion that exist and exist. The board of directors and board of directors received the March/ April three annual meeting specialists to review the matter, discuss the information and the questions that may need to be answered. That was a very helpful discussion. Many questions were discussed, but more questions were raised, and no single answer was obtained at a meeting of the Committee. In view of this, I feel that it is very unwise to make further decisions regarding the processing of the court until it is clear whether the case will be settled in the European Court of Human Rights. In the end, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnarsdóttir's Halla's hair for a good overview of the story, but she reiterates what I've been discussing in the past: How are we going to make the knots for the future an equal law and equal to the appointment of judges at all levels? [[The president calls.]] Because that's what Halla was missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u198	Mr. President. Thanks for this important discussion. Trust in courts is of utmost importance. In recent surveys on that subject, the joy of developing resulted in a marked increase. It's still very low. It's not good if there's only 47% of people who trust Icelandic courts, that's a very low percentage. This is one of the cornerstones of our community working. This survey was conducted on March 1, so it is basically before or about the time the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights fell. The time line on this is important. It is now waiting for the Court of Human Rights to reconsider. They hope for an answer in a few months. If he sets matters straight, that procedure will take considerable time. It would be right, then, to ask the highest question. Minister if timelines have been drawn in this context. As long as that situation exists, the question is, What is to be done? V.E.G. During a few days ago during the council, the secretary of finance discussed formalities and practitioners when it came to the question of law making a legal arrangement or not, or just running over them and taking over. [[The president calls.]] Well, that's kind of the question. Minister of Justice: Is it a formalist or a realist?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u199	A respectable president. We're talking about this amazing mess that we've been able to do with national rights. The right of the land was to greatly improve the legal system. That was the original purpose. Unfortunately, we've screwed up these matters, and trust I can't imagine reaching anything near 47% after this amazing mess that has been around the order of these judges. What I'm worried about is that there's almost one third of the court disabled. It must be said to themselves that they are gathering a case. It is unacceptable in our system that speech is running late. Then is my question to the minister: Is she looking into these matters? How is the trial to save the court's survival not really going to be so ineffective because of the delay in the case? When do we expect a plan to respond? Or is there no plan? And I ask myself, " Is this the way the court will be for a long time, just unworkable, so that it will accumulate a matter? ' What comes first? Will it just be the lucky and awkward way? There is not much confidence in the courts, and I say in my part that the few times I have had to go to court, it was not reassuring. The land's rights would be better if things had been handled properly in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u200	President. I'd like to go into those talking points for a minute. One of the points in this document published by the press to the members of the Ministry Generals is that these four judges were legally appointed. That is correct, but it is half true, for the minister of justice still violated laws in the order of judges. It is always an attempt to present the speech somehow, but let us be absolutely clear: the district court and the Supreme Court and the Court of Human Rights have all concluded that the Minister of Justice has violated a law at the order of these four judges. That's just the way it is. General on the defenses of the Minister of Justice in this case: Those who wish to compare it to something may compare it with the defenses of the state of Richards Nixons when men were trying to inform Watergate. It's a sound station, or a pedcast, with the permission of a president, called ◯Slowburn, which I advise people to listen to. ▪Slowburn, or slow burn, so we'll translate it. This ◯podcasts over the whole process of the case in an extremely difficult way. One way was done was by means of such speech points sent to the directors, and then they used them to speak out the language. What I find most seriously about these points is that they are speaking down the European Court of Human Rights. That's not good. The lips of the Minister of Justice are held by speaking down the European Court of Human Rights. You're absolutely right, he doesn't have the authority for Iceland. It's also only half the truth. Because we have put the European Convention on Human Rights in and out of it the Supreme Court has often seen how it is judged in Europe. [[The president calls.]] Secular truth is repeatedly brought forth in this case to mislead the discussion. Minister of Justice violated law at the order of these four judges.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u201	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson spoke here about something he called half - truths, but many of the points presented in his speech were burned at the same point - some kind of truth. First thing. In this discussion, a senator wants to use the opportunity to include some of the points in the discussion, so I can't let it pass for him and others. In an interesting article published by Dr. Gunnar Harðarson, a philosopher who appeared during his baptism last week reviews the judges of the Supreme Court in the National Court based on logic methodology. I think senators would do well to find out. He concluded that there have been a number of issues based on logic. We'll probably keep talking at least Based on a theoretical view of the Supreme Court, both from December 2017 and May 2018 onward, the basis for such views. Personally, I made extensive comments. But that remains the final conclusion of the Supreme Court regarding the suitability of the judge that they were legally appointed. It's like the highest. The minister of justice came into his speech, however, is it in the authority of a judge whether they are qualified for individual matters or if they are going on leave or how they are doing? You're right. You're right. The Minister of Justice and the government have taken this case carefully, and it is very important to take the case further as possible according to the European Court of Human Rights and call for a review on this judgment. As shown by the U.S.A. In the quoted points of the assistant minister of justice, which has been a matter of discussion, this judgment is inconsistency with the previous judicial action on the basis of this same court. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u202	A respectable president. I thank the people for the portion of the discussion that has been completed. The discussion puts you in a position of considerable sympathy with the former Minister of Justice, for the highest. Certainly, a minister had a problem when asked for suggestions on a list of judges but no less than a government group of colleagues came forward and said in effect: This list does not go through as it is known. I don't think anyone at any point drew it back. Based on my memory, I'm pretty sure that this is the case - it was the representatives and ministers of the Annexe and the Bright Future who made serious comments on the list presented by the Committee of Witnesses. I have to admit that this constant riot has become the case we are discussing today, apparently with the sole objective of reducing the credibility and credibility of the courts in the country. Because there is nothing in this matter that suggests that humans are looking for some special solution, so it is quite simple and often important not to panic. I just want to repeat what I said in my first speech: The General Assembly of the Icelanders approved the order of 15 judges in the Country Court. The president of Iceland confirmed the order of the judges after his own inspection. The court has judged the judges to be judicial. Iceland's Supreme Court has ruled that judges do not have legal rights and that these do not involve violations of human rights. As long as Iceland is a sovereign state, the opinion of foreign officials will not change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u203	President. Many things have been discussed and written on this subject. In itself, it is not important when I add it to a review of the situation. It's been very clear. V.E.G. The minister took care of her. That is why I would like to look at two things that have been presented during this discussion that I had found to be strange to listen to. First of all, in the interest of a discussion of spoken points sent to the members of the entire board, it would be kind of strange to say so, but I do, Mr President. I've never had all the talks I've had, anywhere and the stage of that speech, spoke from some point of speech that someone else has sent me. People who are at their job in the administrative system can have their own opinions, present them as unusual. Then it is up to us senators to decide whether we will agree with that opinion or not and how we will make our case known. Another factor has been made in speaking down the European Court of Human Rights. Then I'd like to reiterate that I make a clear distinction between having an opinion of the court or the result or the system itself. I make no distinction as to whether we speak of the courts, their judgments, their judgments, their decisions, their social committees, their decision, or what it is. We can have an opinion on the ◯produk, the excuse, the President, i.e. The decision or the judgment, without speaking through the system. I'm warning you that we talk like this because that means everything I've mentioned here, the ruling of all the above warnings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u204	Mr. President. Yes, this is certainly an interesting discussion that is taking place here, and it's kind of shocking to watch the British representatives of the Central Party, who are obviously very interested at the government table. I'd like to know from the top. Minister of Justice when the appeal request went from Iceland to the European Court of Human Rights, since it had not been gone recently. I'd like to know when it was, and I'd also like to know when my answer will be heard about the cost of all this failure. Either way. A minister has some idea when we will be given information about the cost of all of this. I'd also like to take a little part in my case if I'd been to the trajectory that's been through the world's highest level. Minister of Justice that the Supreme Court said the judges are legally appointed. These things are repeated, and the judges themselves consider whether they shall stand in judgment. That they would appreciate their privilege. I feel a little uncomfortable when it comes out repeatedly, on every occasion. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it is considered that the judges could actually today without direct economic consequences for the Icelandic government fund, sit in judgment, continue judging, and that there will be no consequences. The European Court of Human Rights has now judged the court of these four judges as not neutral and unwilling, that it is in opposition to Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights, which we are in. We have also committed ourselves to comply with the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. I'd like to hear about it. It is claimed that the judges are legally appointed and expelled from the other. It's just the form. That President signed up, etc. It's the highest. In effect, a minister of justice could say that the judges could just sit down again and appreciate it so that they could function?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u205	V.E.G. President. The Court's position is here discussed by the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. The beginning of the matter is the order of a judge to the judgment, which is overlooked by the findings of a committee of suitable individuals. However, the process at the order of judges is acceptable, not carried out. The matter seems to be few if there is an example, and this always results in a void in the processing process. However, 15 judges have been appointed by the Country Court. Now it is important to talk about the minister's decision and the process, not the individuals appointed to the court. This does not change the position of four of them to the court. This was a monopoly, which in the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, was not acceptable. Can we bring down the sentence so that 15 judges would expect improvement or do the right thing and accept the consequences of the command and improve the interests of the four judges, reassigning four judges to the court? Should we have 11 judges? That would be the quickest operation to enable justice to function and settle. Whatever the consequences, we can also decide to ignore the European Court of Human Rights. How does the result change the way we deal with this situation? Has the European Court of Human Rights become too much for a nation? The opinions of the experts who appeared to the committee were all sorts of things, and there seems to be no conclusion. What is the most important thing here, trust in courts, these four judges, or the process of their order? There must be a trust in the courts. That is why we have politicians who put together the rules of the game to work together to find a successful solution and, above all, to be careful, to take time, and to restore trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u206	Mr. President. This case is all an empty mess, in many respects, and most important, it is a great mess on the part of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Independence for the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. But it's over. Now we're standing here at the council and the highest. Minister of Justice before solving the situation of our judicial system, including the National Court. I'm not going to compromise with the Minister for taking the case for the Re-Electment Department of the Human Rights, although I would have certainly wanted to see it done with more dignity, with more respect, not with these outbacks and chaoss, which were not least a case for members of the Independence Party. I feel sorry to experience that again and again today in the ministry of some people, including The members of the Independence Party, the Central Party, or at least part of the Independence Party sister, continue to cut down on the same knee, speaking down to the Court of Human Rights rather than taking it seriously. It is not a matter of personal independence, such as how we handle this matter. We need to eliminate uncertainty. Good answers need to be made. I'm in charge of the answers. Minister earlier she's going to be ready to plan whatever will happen to the Department of Re-Election, and I welcome it and encourage the Minister to do so. Also, I would like to encourage Ministers to cooperate with all political parties, not just political opposition. You see, I know that other government governments are not necessarily informed about what is going on in the Ministry of Justice. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of Justice to agree with all political parties on how we resolve this matter. That's a lot under there. It's not about control or opposition. It's about destroying uncertainty for our important level of compromise and increasing national rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u207	A respectable president. It is, in effect, a remarkable debate we have on the courts. We're trying to increase confidence in courts like a national court and now to new national rights and Supreme Court. It is cool that the case finally arrived at the Court of Human Rights, but then we begin to doubt that if the Court of Human Rights finds any conclusion, it is correct. We question another court at the same time as we're trying to raise some opinion of the courts we have here at home. If the Court of Human Rights dismisss the case or takes action to administer it, will we begin to argue about the right or the wrong? How does this improve the situation and show that we have greater respect for it? If we don't do something about this quickly, we won't have to delay that the case will only be collected in the National Court and if it is an impenetrable way to get things fixed, we will not be able to get things out of the way so that they can be right and be respected that we are really trying to bring up the jugular system, and the common people can trust that it's all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u208	Mr. President. It's a judgment without judgment, says the highest. Minister of Justice, but there is little answer to what she will do to deal with him, if anything. We're gonna wait and see. It is still the same answer that we received when the judgment fell, and the same answer we received while he was hanging over us. It has not changed much in this regard. V.E.G. A minister said, and that was the only thing I felt quite clear in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister, that she would do nothing in the meantime except look at the rest of the matter. Maybe I'll find out in a minute what on earth that means. But the highest. A minister spoke of how unusual it would be for assistant ministers to send out memos to the directors. I wasn't trying to make this memo any less cynical than it needs to be. I asked the highest. The minister would agree with the line taken there, that the Court of Human Rights should not be making such a judgment on these matters, that we had now not given our interpretation authority to Europe, and other things that were presented in the case of many members of the Independence Party following this decision. I'm asking because it's about how much it matters. Minister's going to proceed. Does she feel that this has something to do with the European Court of Human Rights or not? That's a question. She feels that the Court of Human Rights has the right to decide which area. has been broken in this case? That's my question. V.E.G. A minister said that she wanted to look at the other aspect of the matter. What's the big deal? A minister to examine if she is not going to consider what should be done about a number of judges, if she is not going to consider how the land rights should come to a proper outlook until ever, if we ever know what is going to happen in this matter? What's the big deal? Minister to examine, and how? I'm going to the top. A minister might ask, " Is it advisable to obtain a sitting judge at the court to advise on how the court of Human Rights should be handled? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u209	A respectable president. It was inserted earlier that the land's rights were a great requisite. He obviously is. It was a historic step. It seemed to me like a little bit of a rush at someone's house. Councilmen say it was as if he were in total paralysis or even no longer present. I think we need to watch how we talk about the situation. It says that the National Court was supposed to improve the legal system. I just want to come because the National Court has, of course, improved the legal system and will continue to do so. This is where I'm accused of being very irresponsible. It's okay to have that opinion. I disagree completely with the fact that my work practices include irresponsible work. It is also a responsibility to give time and to examine all aspects of the matter. I have, for example. Don't tell me I don't look at any circumstances in which a judge is growing. What I've said is that I will not take any further action until we know whether the matter will be addressed or not. In the absence of consultation, I have met with the presidents of all classes twice on this matter and will do it again if necessary. As for the shooting of Davíð Björgvin's son, Þór Björgvinsson, was assigned to advise a government in the National Court, it is to answer that it is a government attorney who is under the Ministry of Presidency requesting advice from Davíð Þór Björgvinsson on the legal hearing of the Icelandic State. Davíð Þór may have been on leave as a judge at the National Court because he was then a district attorney in the Guðmunds and Geirtur case. V.E.G. Prior to this, prime minister has answered the question, including the following: to sit with her for meetings and provide assistance to a state lawyer. [[The president calls.]] Thank you so much for this discussion. No doubt there will be further discussions on this subject. For asking why. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir is in progress and I expect an answer to be sent out this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u210	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for wanting to participate in this discussion that I call the opportunity for gardening. In April 2018, travel, industrial, and innovations ordered a team of workers to consider the nuclear products of garden farmers. The staff were aimed at reviewing the development of electric costs of garden farmers and identifying opportunities for development and innovation within the industry. From 2005, gardeners have had a contract with the government that the government pays down transport and distribution of electrical energy for lighting climatics. In effect, garden farmers pay for the energy, but the state has paid down the transport and distribution of up to 95%. In recent years, however, this subsidies has been significantly lacking, but it went down to 64.8% at the most. The electricity cost of a horticulture from income is in the range of 253/40%. This change began on January 1 with a team's proposal that fasting would also be paid. that the subsidies rate was 82% in urban areas and 86.1% in rural areas. So this suggestion was made before the work of the group was completed. A respectable president. There can be no profession in such a fluctuated environment, where a large part of the cost of operating runs between the years. Iceland's agricultural land is to take the lead in providing wholesome products that satisfy domestic markets. In order for this to happen, there is a need for initiative, for future vision, for additional support and stability in the environment. Icelandic production produces five times less carbon track than the exported product and the share of the food production in the country is 7.6%, while carbon emissions are 1%. This site of gardening is an instrument of death for Iceland's contribution to less emissions and less carbon dioxide. A respectable president. The competition is tough. In Europe, there are greenhouses in many gangs of countries that use gas, oil, or even nuclear energy to swallow and illuminate greenhouses and deliver a lot of soot tracks. Icelandic florists compete with the free sunlight in the fields of Victoria Lake in Africa, where a worker's monthly wages in the field are 2500 bucks. or the number of hours in Iceland. Let us meet these challenges by means of market assistance and a huge increase in the production of wholesome products of a fertile sword covered by a clean country. Renewable sustainable, inexpensive energy, innovation and development of traditional gardening can sustain the land with their own production which no other country can withstand rotation when it comes to quality and wholesome products. Great dreams of local electricity production at a greenhouse come true, hot water is given to a greenhouse, 30°C taken to build electricity, and 70°C is used to warm up the greenhouses. Is that all too good to be true? Or will Ministers recommend and modify regulations in order to facilitate the production of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere or from the industrial and geothermal energy plants to be used in culture so that greenhouses will have no carbon share? A respectable president. The opportunity is amazing, and we don't have time to wait. Life is now. Opportunities wait. Or is that too good to be true? In view of the instruments of gardening, I ask the highest. Minister: Will Ministers take advantage of the state's stability in the garden's environment by standing at the 95% subsidies of electricity transport costs, as shown in the labour agreement? Is a minister willing to use for innovation based on new types of greenhouses, ◯vertical or vertical, and parks that can rise, that gardening can enjoy equal and comparable competitive and traditional technologies? Second, I ask a minister: I want a minister in that vision of a pilot to strengthen the environment of the garden, to reduce electricity costs, and to allow the price for transport and distribution to become comparable in rural areas and urban areas, to strengthen innovation, and to make a courageous plan for sustainable clean production for the domestic market by 2025. And third, I ask the highest. Minister: Is it realistic to believe that Iceland will become the most pure gardening and food production land in the world, where parks and sustainable gardening plants and low-carbon footage domestic food production will be attractive to Iceland's tourist country in the near future?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u211	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this discussion to the attention of garden farmers. Their conditions are subject to regular discussion. Earlier this year a report was presented to a group of work that specifically discussed the electrical products of garden farmers. A senator led. I will seek to answer the questions as easily as possible. A senator has contributed to four teams. First, it is asked whether a minister intends to promote the state's stability in the gardening environment by meeting the 95% subsidies of electricity transport costs, as shown in a domestic contract. In the 5th. Residual agreements say that volumes in the transfer and distribution of electricity should be supplied up to 95% for producers of horticulture products. This ratio has fluctuated in recent years, went down by 70%, but is now 82% in urban areas, 86% in rural areas. The above-mentioned employment group suggests that the share-of-financing will be written into the labour agreements that the ratio will never exceed 90%. I can agree with the work force that stability is important for producers of gardening products. However, the implementation of subsidies for gardening farmers and the relevant budget is for the management of marine eco-efficiency and agriculture ministers. It is certainly obligatory in the workgroup report that the proposals and measures it contains are not all in the custody of tourism, industrial and innovation ministers. Second, as a result of questions about innovation in gardening, I believe that in such sectors as many others, there are tremendous opportunities for innovation and a right to support increased innovation in gardening areas. That is why I decided that a representative of Iceland's New Creation Centre should be included in the above - mentioned work group, and the report of the group contains a report on the possibility of more innovation in this article. Can be used there, e.g. There are new types of greenhouses, energy-sparingled gases and experiments with such descriptions at Iceland's Farming University, reductions in carbon footprints by reducing the use of carbonic acid through new technologies, and other such as hooves. A senator came in. New creation centres and the National Focal University have carried out some cooperation projects related to these factors and have been strengthened by technological development funds. The report contains suggestions for increased innovation, including for the garden's research fund, motivation to use energy - sparing light source and green loans to garden farmers who intend to take energy - sparing measures. I think these are interesting suggestions, and they are now for further consideration in the Ministry and the Second Amendment Center. They even come. into the current work on the shape of the overall innovation policy for Iceland. Third, the reduction in electricity costs and the price for transport and distribution will be comparable in rural and urban areas. Electric accounts are made up of four elements; production, transport, distribution, and taxes. The result is in a competitive market, as we know, that transport costs the same in all parts of the country, so the cost is just the same anywhere in the country, that is, in the distribution of the differences. The reduction in electricity costs to garden farmers is therefore due to the subsidies of the previously mentioned volume distribution costs of up to 95% of the market agreements. Fourth, as to whether it's a realistic vision that Iceland will become the world's purest garden and food production land, which will also attract us as a tourist country, it's certainly intended that Iceland will become as sustainable in food production as possible. We will see clearer lines and implementation in the current food policy. I mention, for example, that the gardener's sales company has equalized all the transport of vegetables from farms to buyers. The recent food trade policy also highlights the positive environmental impacts in food production, transport, and management, so it can be said that governments gave the tone toward greener paces. Of course, it's perfectly normal that governments themselves, statesmen, set a good example and start with themselves, and the government buys food, if I understand correctly, by a high rate of 3 billion a year. How much depends on it if we consider both the carbon footprints and the other aspects of our shopping! If we look at tourists, their better - growing environmental sense is that of them, and we have a lot of access to them. It's Iceland's food store, e.g. Norse projects on local assessments in future tourism services that examine the effects of climate change and consumption behavior. The project is three years old and will link food producers with tourism providers. A major awakening is to sustainable tourism in the countries around us, which should motivate us to use our preferred tools and put us in the highest order. We all have grounds to do that. Part of what I see as a vision for tourism is that, of course, tourists have to fly to get here unless they come by ship, and it pollutes, but in other respects they could be here and even their carbon balanced, whether they drive on electric vehicles or buy local quality food. And, of course, we should have a clear vision and take pride, not just to support the people here who produce food, but because it matters for the environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We all have the premiums to be in the front row when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u212	Mr. President. Of course, all of us are proud of our powerful garden. The time had come when the people ate virtually no products called daily fruits or vegetables except if there was to be mountain grass and beach cabbage on them. There may not be many who commemorate the festival when the fragrance of the Christmas animals announced the arrival of Christmas. Often we do not realize how rapid the change is. Not long ago, the harnessing of the fallen waters made it possible for Iceland and Icelanders to eat vegetables to a greater extent and to stop trusting in its import. Of course, a nation that has enough electricity should be mostly self-employed with vegetables and flowers and other things that can be cultivated in this country. According to studies conducted in Whos and elsewhere, crops have been successful in greenhouses and there is a realistic possibility that we can cultivate much of our own fruitage. Of course, Mr. President, the domestic product became environmentally compatible, both in the use of toxic substances, simply due to a reduction in the number of parasites in production, and also also because the products are transported relatively short distances on the consumer table. But we are selling these good products to the national producers of electricity to such an extent that their competitiveness becomes difficult to deal with imported vegetables, fruits, and flowers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u213	Mr. President. I appreciate this special discussion, but I and the members of the United States have been very active in promoting the importance of improving climatic development and production of fruit and vegetables in Iceland. It has rarely been as important as it has now been to look to an increase in innovation in this article. Consider some cases that I have preceded in a talk chair, which are the opportunities to use the temperature of our low temperature and the side currents of energy with more geothermal energy for the production of all kinds of vegetables and fruits. Why are we not here to cultivate all kinds of grass that, for example, are such types. are they even grown in Alaska? Why don't we subsidize more species and an increased amount in order to reduce the need for the import and belonging of carbon tracks? By further development on a larger scale, we should easily be able to produce all the vegetables the Icelanders need and perhaps more, and we could look to the Netherlands's experience in the context of the extensive growth of food, fruit, vegetables, and, of course, flowers. We should, therefore, greatly increase contributions to research and innovation of vegetables and fruit production as well as for increased production. The fact is, there are significant changes ahead, and over the next 30 years there is an increase in food production of about 50 to 470 percent. Because of the impacts of climate change, the fact is that production will have to be done to a greater extent in a controlled environment such as greenhouses, as well as the importance of reducing the consumption of meat and increasing the consumption of plant products. Mr. President. As we have increased production within the country the opportunity to reduce Iceland's total carbon track, which would require less transport, which is certainly in line with the UN's sustainable aim.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u214	Mr. President. The industry is an industry that truly has a future in Iceland. There is an abundance of water, as we know, and pure energy, and vegetables are produced with virtually no plant preservatives or pesticide. This is a high demand product and there is a good example of integrating in transport production, such as in the World of Peace. There they create the country's habitat by making practical use of the quality we have to offer. We can make a political decision to produce more of the vegetables consumed in Iceland within the country. It is now mostly tomatoes, paprika, and aguar, where domestic production is competitive. Increasing innovation in production and induction of technology, such as the so - called vertical garden, may increase competition for more species. In this context, there is also the company Nordic Wasabi, which produces wasabi at Egls, both for use/taking within the country and for exporting. Here's an opportunity for more producers, and there's a big increase in the consumption of vegetables. We can do this by two ways, in my opinion. It is to cover the distribution costs of electrical energy to the garden even more so than is now being done. And then there's the simple action that has to do with meaning, and I'm setting up hopes for agri- and marine espionage work that will work just about to improve the meaning of food, which will be successful. In this context, it was surprising that in the trades of the state of vegetables, only half of the vegetables used in local meals were domestic. Finally, I think both are needed, to subsidize electricity to produce vegetables, and it's actually a green step because otherwise we're moving a long distance from vegetables. It takes a carbon track. We have environmental energy at home and need consumers to be informed about the origin of food. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u215	Mr. President. In Iceland, gardeners have proved their power by performing beautifully over the past few years, especially since customs were removed. Many were afraid of that operation, but it has been very effective in this article. There's a lot of good work going on. The production of hot organic products is being made and reduced from packaging to similar. It is tried to move forward in the sense of product etc. But circumstances, systemic conditions that farmers may face may be better. The problem is to a large extent that the system of farming contracts we live in assessing garden farmers less than other farmers. That's a problem. The natural structure could arrange for the garden farmers not to produce 7.6% of Iceland's overall food but would simply flourish as a trade and even compete in export. I don't know. I think it's critical. A advocate of competition with countries where monthly wages, except hours in Iceland, are, in fact, misled. Is the goal of lowering garden farmers' wages so that we become more competitive with other countries? Or close the border? I don't think either way is really a smart one. A competition must be on a natural basis. If we are to do well in Iceland's gardening, we must naturally take our circumstances into account. Then we need to decide that automation and modern technology are the whole process, self-activating the operation, and today's system of action, or removing a variety of system-wide barriers that cause us problems. It may be the most reasonable first step to determine exactly which factors block the production of garden farmers most. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u216	A respectable president. The history of agriculture in this country is not long under consideration of the history of the country, but it has been increasing, with resources that have been useful to us for farming, such as eco-efficiency, which are important to us in crops and greenhouses, and a large part of the operating cost of garden farmers. The government's subsidies for the manufacturer of the horticultural products turn to subsidies of electricity under contract for the working conditions of the Manufacturers of horticultures from 2016 and then direct pay to the manufacturer of grouses, tomatoes and peppers, only to their products. Bone pay is not due to breeding on vegetables, such as potatoes, cabbages, carrots, and paddles, for example. Exploited vegetables are not supported unless they are used in the form of the protection used in the commercially available Icelandic product. Since the turn of the century, breeding has been on the decline, for example, the production of potato in this country has taken from 10,000 tons to 6,000 tons. Since the decline in customs protection of Icelandic vegetables by the turn of the century, the market share of Icelandic vegetables has been severely reduced. Only since 2010 has market share taken from 75% to 52%. Government policy with the support of garden farmers is to increase supply and consumption of gardening products in accordance with government public health policies and increase public awareness of loyalty and a healthy way of life. Earth's warmth is thought to be one of the greatest problems mankind is facing right now. The level of food production is all that matters to mankind, how food is consumed, and where there are opportunities. In view of the exported production, the preeminent production in vegetables is quite significant. It is important to consider opportunities for these matters, both financial and environmental costs. Vegetable growth is on the decline, and it is a question of whether it is willing to pick up bone payments for breeding, e.g. against the decomposition of protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u217	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this discussion, and not at all. A minister for the answers I feel will show a measure of perspective. We in Resurrection enjoyed the visit of a community gardener at the Farmeral Hall after our powerful deputy, Sigríður María Egilsdóttir, had written an article in a paper about all the packages around the vegetables and directed the sights to the wall in the spandex suit, the plastic pandex suit. At the same time, she showed that Icelanders and especially young people the way she likes to pick Icelandic and think about carbon equations. It has an enormous application, such as a minister in his speech, how we Icelanders respond to the competition. I feel that gardening is exactly the branch in the agricultural field that has just responded to competition, such as to be done, by a big offense, with optimism. I think we see, with all due respect to all the other articles, nothing at all, except in the vegetables, spectacular product development, innovation. Just think ten years ago about the tomatoes. It is also transferred to a variety of forms of tomatoes, taste of tomatoes, tomatoes, secondary goods, which are far more profitable than ever. Of course, that's how we're supposed to approach the agriculture as well. Toll protection was what they were talking about. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir mentioned that we may be able to eliminate customs protection from direct payment in preparatives. I think we should take a serious look at that, because it's been shown that the bone payments are returning. We'll agree on that. We don't want to turn down payments to farmers, we want to direct them toward the most new creation. We encourage farmers to work as hard as they can, so that more goes directly to a farmer and then directs them to consumers and then tries to make less of the intermediate groups. The press is huge in agriculture, and especially in vegetables, and I think we're just getting started. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u218	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for this discussion and Minister for answering. This is, I think, just with more important discussions we've been attending the council for a long time. Let us see that there are individuals in Iceland who have shown amazing skills for breeding. We are also talking about growing on fruit and all kinds of plants outside the door. It's worked. And then I ask, what could we do in greenhouses, inside the door of giant greenhouses, with all the clean and clean water we have, and without the use of insecticides and other things that are widely used abroad? This tells me that we have tremendous opportunities to look to. We're supposed to be ambitious. We've got a plan for all kinds of things. Why do we not have a future policy for the next ten years on this very issue to increase the production? We could double it, triple it, even triple it. It'll always be good for us Icelanders, and we're supposed to look at something else in this context, the health crisis that's going on. There we can take the lead. I say for my part, if I'm going to choose between Icelandic vegetables that I know from where it comes from or from a foreign vegetable that I don't know where it came from and how it's been cultivated, I choose Icelandic. That's why we, about the electrical price, should not let it stop us. If we can sell cheap electricity for production, e.g. In a silica plant that pollutes tremendously, we must be able to sell the electricity at the same price in such excellent production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u219	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for starting this very needed discussion. As we have seen in the case of many woes. How proud we are of our powerful garden of Eden! I think it's safe to say that. I discussed earlier in this discussion how environmental production is being made, both in its purity but also in the fact that it saves the transport of products that would otherwise be brought in a long distance from other countries. So it does not affect the climate of the world as bad. In other words, it is said to lower the levels of carbon from our Icelanders. I also want to see here how important it is for us as a nation to be sufficient for ourselves, much as it is available here to produce food. We should not look far beyond the amount in this material. This is also a matter of public defence, in case of emergency, that we can produce within the country the food we need. Mr. President. Electric costs are the largest cost of gardening. The price of transport and distribution of electricity has increased abnormally high in agricultural costs in recent years. Of course, with all this energy, it should be used as the most food production for the domestic market. We all want to support our garden, it could be more powerful, that's what we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u220	Mr. President. If the consumption of every person on earth was consistent with the consumption of Icelanders, 27 land would be needed to live up to it. The fact that Iceland's carbon tracks are twice the size of other Europeans surprises many. If we are to succeed in our fight against global warming, we must change our eating habits. To be successful in this grandest joint project in mankind, public wants to change and political will and the courage of the government. So I say again and again, we have to spit on our hands and turn back bad developments and revise our eating habits and the production of food. Our strengths for increased vegetable production are impressive in the form of renewable electricity, earthvar, cold air, and a few buges. We should let technical knowledge work with us to increase and facilitate vegetable production in this country and keep it mostly within the doors. On average, there is a half difference between the emissions of imported vegetables and the Icelandic production. This alone shows that there is a high environmental benefit from increasing domestic product production of vegetables. You need and benefit from promoting the production of Icelandic vegetables. This could be done in various ways, such as by the use of the earth's heat, by promoting innovation, by funding for better equipment, by saving more light, and by raising the existing greenhouses, by increasing efficiency, and by making the power for electrical transport more efficient and predictable. Young farmers also need to be encouraged to start manufacturing in a generation bridge from the older to younger ones. Mr. President. Let's use our strength in green food production. [[The president calls.]] It's worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u221	Mr. President. All these discussions are to be Thanks to them. They are practical and beneficial. We will discuss the practical use of earth's heat, a priceless resource to our country. Then I'd like to remind you that the opportunity lies in what we call the first product, i.e. blacks, clams, clime, fish farms, all kinds of raw materials in value, and also in recycling of waste from the early product itself. These are the opportunities. It is now that we can see where the pressure is. It's the energy price. This has been noted in talks about why. Councilmen, this is decisive and need to be further reduced by reasonable means. Of course, it's the innovation environment. There is both strength and easier access to capitalism, and it is enough to mention what has been done, both in lighting and in breeding methods. Besides, the carbon tracks are decisive, too. More recently, flower producers reported that they can find another global demand but will not be able to do so for a huge import. The future mouse, I believe, is a food industry in Iceland. So it is both the clime of vegetables, and I want to name the fish fire and other valuables from seawater as well. Then I'm talking about domestic production, increasing it, and there's some appeals to further consumption and production, and then for exporting, but there has to be an eco-friendly route of transport between countries. But whatever the case, this is a major review project to deal with in terms of both the environment and the climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u222	Mr. President. First, I would like to say that I mentioned in my earlier talk that customs had been removed, of course, only on some locked plants. But there may be reason to think exactly on the road to removing the customs in general. This was successful in the past and could do so now, especially if there is a better government support to further the growth of farmers. I'd like to mention in this context the future, not just the technology, but the people. Today, smoke's gardening school has been tailored to an extremely narrow range of times, including some of which have been used. There is very limited opportunity for modern - day study to be used by technology. Many people are doing cool things there to try to push it into that direction, but they live in it as if they're next to a ruined building and many things to do. This is a sign I think of in this article. Everyone talks well about gardening and gardening, but it is less interested in putting garden on the floor that she deserves. We need both the education system and then the agricultural agreements, as defective as they are, to move this up, on a higher ledge, especially when we put this in connection with climate change, where we have many opportunities to reduce our waste levels and promote domestic production to meet such factors as this. decrease the intake of meat and decrease the import of vegetables. There's a lot to do. But we have to look at the overall picture, from the source of the devices, from the people who work in this article, and right up to the consumers who come to buy these fine products. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u223	A respectable president. I welcome this discussion about the opportunity of an Icelandic garden. The opportunity lies in the increased market share in the domestic market, it is too small. No matter how we roll, there is no doubt that the level of carbon footprints and other environmental effects of Icelandic vegetables and other products of gardening are much less than those of the imported. In addition to the gardening industry, quality products are produced. To compete in the market, governments have a natural environment that is important. The generation of innovation has to be catalysed in manufacturing methods, production forms for continued environmentally dependent solutions, whether on energy efficiency or other manufacturing factors. In this context, you should not forget the transfer, pack, label, and work for eating, and of course education is important. I want to equal the emissions of electricity at once so that the country will have one distribution system and one price. This is the basic step, so that all the energy-efficient rural activities depend on stability and awareness of energy costs. Experience shows that everything else is non-remarkable. In addition, in a greater context of national energy efficiency, food security, and environmental factors, it would be wise to pay electrical energy down to the garden and to support in some way all the food productions of gardening farmers. QA doesn't always get fresh in the market. Who can fix that? Is it manufacturers, distributors, or shipping companies? The fact is, after fighting to get quality vegetables, an ambitious Oriental caterer began importing vegetables directly from Denmark with the Norwegian shipping company and has since been unable to escape the demand of subscribers for vegetables in the East. Is this weekly import now into two tons. If we produce the finest goods in this country, we must also be able to spread it as finest goods throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u224	Mr. President. It's been so much fun listening to all the speakers here today. I feel that the symptoms of the talks are optimistic, applied to Icelandic agriculture, and, in this case, vegetables, have come up with a lot of good and needed tips, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. A senator who last spoke about the transport system in this country. If we want the whole country to be connected, we also need to make sure that our products, which, when it comes to vegetables, are produced on the southwest corner and south of the country. That is what we need to consider. On our visit to the Bavory, the Parking Prayer, and other jobs, I have sensed a great deal of fear regarding the origin of the word, and this is understandable. It needs to be taken into consideration about the origin of the word. Now we no longer have time to mark the products and call for increased monitoring, so it's the woodwork, the abuse of the situation, and otherwise reinvented vegetables in Icelandic packaging. I want the consumer to have a choice, not that he is led to believe that something is Icelandic when it's foreign in its packaging. We consumers, whether we are Icelandic or we come from the outside, demand shopping and producers, including middlemen, giving the right message to consumers so that they can directly choose whether to choose Icelandic vegetables or foreign good vegetables. The choice should be theirs. That is why, while we are in wood, we want to support farmers in their demand to promote source marks, but no less, we should set that goal, and I am the conviction that, as well as the people in wood, to eliminate as many obstacles as possible, all obstacles, to promote Icelandic production. It has proved true that he has given up well. [[The president calls.]] Our people in agriculture are full of ideas to increase and promote Icelandic innovations within the country, and thus we will continue to strengthen the entire agriculture and the consumer market as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u225	A respectable president. I thank you for all this wonderful discussion, and I'd like to encourage the Minister to bring a vegetarian policy to the next 10 to 15 years. I'm sure all classes will welcome it and participate in that policy. I think that's what we need now. We must also understand one thing in this context, e.g. ... withexploitedves,we don't grow every species here. One day I saw an interview with a woman growing tomatoes outside the door, which was slow interest tomato. She said that they were super food because the slower the more the vegetables grow, the stronger they produce more vitamins. We are always trying to find these extremes, and we often choose the easy way and take them on tablets. But we'd be much closer to maping what's convenient for us, it would be the best thing to do in this kind of policy. Then there's the other thing, we decide that there are no tolls on electric cars and other things to facilitate the switch from fuel - carrying vehicles to eco-friendly, that's what we're supposed to do in gardening about both customs and strength. We need to spend some money to get these good things started, and I think it would be money that would get back into the system very quickly, especially if we were to advertise it and let foreigners know because we are cultivating a very good healthy diet, very rich in vitamins.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u226	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the fine discussion that has been conducted here. There is a very good spirit in this discussion, evidently fertile soil to make the work speak. I was pleased with what a minister said in his opening words about the future and the optimism she had experienced, that I felt. I'm ready to ask her to dance. We need cooperation to deal with these issues. Clearly, there is a great deal of mind in members of the council, and we need to take market stimulus to promote gardening, to make it competitive, and to produce the product and all the goods that we Iceland needs. It's clearly called in this room, in these discussions. I think today's the day. We need to take advantage of the strength that the land offers. We have cheap energy. We have productive soil and must assist our garden to grow and grow and become the green revolution we call after. The carbon tracks are incredibly low. Many of the features that we need to fix have been identified here. That's what we do with a collective effort. I say, as I said in my speech earlier: Life is now. Let us set courageous goals. Let's make sustainable vegetable land Iceland by 2025. That's a good goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u227	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and others, that this has been a very live and delightful discussion with all kinds of visual and ideas. I wanted to give a brief mention of the eco-efficiency of rural areas and urban areas. It's there, as we know, a specific equation system, so-called equation charge, but as I've entered the General Assembly lately, we just have to do better to equalize the difference between rural and urban emissions of electricity. There's a special opinion in the Ministry in cooperation with the Power Institute. Sadly, with its effect on garden farms, it is somewhat reversed, with some of the country's gardeners in defined urban areas and others in defined rural areas. Not that all gardeners are in a rural area, as some might expect. In this context, the 2012 Regulation change was made up of garden farmers'wishes on the definition of urban and rural areas, leading to an increased potential for gardening farmers to have a more favourable distribution currency. Similarly, diffusers have recently increasingly tried to specialise their reserves within the framework of electronic laws according to the needs of their different clients, including Garden farmers. That's fine. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir only introduced meanings, which, of course, is a top priority. Marine and agricultural ministers have put it first in cooperation with industry, the Farmer Society, the Industrial Organization, the Trade and Service Organization, and the Neighbours Association, if I recall correctly. That's very important. It mentioned that we need to set a vegetarian policy. I'm going to top it up and say we need to set food policy and that it's won. What I find interesting about this discussion is that it is about consumers, community, employment, energy, environment, innovation, and, of course, that the heart is motivated by tourism. There are a lot of farmers in travel services, and much of this can be connected together. We know examples of such things as the World of Peace and Fludly mushrooms. It's so well connected. [[The president calls.]] There are countless opportunities for that. It's about working together, but it's also about the environment being a force for us to run and do great things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u228	A respectable president. It is no surprise that this is part of the fourth part of the program, the alien resident, who says it is an international protection and an arrangement for deportation. It is only about an hour and a half since we singled out votes specifically about allowing it to be scheduled, as the issue of distribution for the Council on Monday, May 20, three o'clock in the afternoon, which is now. There is a fourth matter for foreigners - 838. This was especially chosen at the Assembly Hall, or members of Congress, for a vote. Now it is announced that the program is off. We tried Thursday night at the President's conference board, but shall we proceed, or is this just another sign of moderate, shifting communication between the government classes in terms of the organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u229	A respectable president. This announcement is surprising. I don't remember another example - it may have happened sometime, but I don't remember - that the President of Generalis specifically requested that the council be held on a program too late to take it off more than an hour later. I'll ask a respectable president to explain what's going on. Could it be that this is another feature of the government's intention to force the energy package through the council without having a proper opinion? That's at least very unconventional, therefore, I reiterate that request to the highest level. The president explained what led to the sudden conversion of the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u230	Mr. President. I agree with them. The members of the council here have spoken that this is quite surprising, especially because this morning we were both seated, me and the highest. President, at the meeting of the Council Presidency to discuss the week of Congress. That's exactly what they took to make this case, i.e. for foreigners, should be on schedule today. Then there are only about three hours, and you wonder what happened at that brief time. Perhaps they will postpone the discussion of the fifth part of the program, too, so that we can just complete the program, or what is the president going to do? What does the president intend to do? This is very strange and I would have very much wanted to explain it because, as I say, this morning, having participated in the discussion of the council, including this part of the program, it's quite surprising.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u231	A respectable president. I have to say, I have to say, it's amazing a lot less. The members of the Central Party are not very happy to start the third energy discussion right away. Next up to the roster, I think I'm the reason. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who is about to take his fifth speech on the Parliament's odor proposal regarding the third energy pack. I know people here, of course, complained that they had to stand up all night. I would have thought it would be nice if we were to start the discussion about half six and hopefully one day we could finish it sometime during the evening. If there is more to life, at least something less is needed at night meetings and can be used to discuss this important matter, for it is evident that many members of the Parliament are still going to deliver important messages in this regard, despite the hours that have already been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u232	Mr. President. I come up here to explain my surprise that the foreign affairs are being decommissioned in such short notice at home, and I have been preparing for this discussion. The matter is very big and important, and we realize that this bill's purpose is to speed up the crisis in this very important group for both those applying for international protection here and for the government. It's urgent that this case go through, and I think we must see that there's not an acceptable mechanism to do it this way, Mr. President, because there's a lot at stake here. This seminar will cost a lot of money and all delays on this bill at the expense of government funds, so I don't understand why this case can't be discussed and given the case as early as possible to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u233	V.E.G. President. I hope there's no misunderstanding, of course, we're glad, the middle-class people, to discuss the third pack of energy, and no one happier than the one standing here who has not even participated in the discussion with the latter. At least after a 20 - minute talk, a ten - minute talk, and some five, I am eager to have this discussion started and to receive the time that she needs. I see now that the first thing we're going to do is blow up this discussion right now until 4:30 in the evening is that we have more than enough time. It's not a committee meeting until 9:00 a.m. Or was it 8:30? I don't remember. So we have plenty of time to break this up. I was far from having a good time here on Thursday night, and I would very much like to say something about them, but I'm going to have a chance to do it right now. The discussion also showed how short the discussion of the energy package really is, so it is advisable only in time to continue and do so well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u234	Mr. President. I have no memory that a case agreed just before to be scheduled will then be pulled out. I just don't understand this conversion and assembly authority, and I have to agree with members of the council who have come up and are amazed at this. It was a meeting to measure for the foreigners' bill, i.e. Foreigners (International Protection and the Apostate Directive), which is a very important matter. I understand it was supposed to have been brought to a committee, followed in a discussion process. I know that there will not be any lengthy speeches here, but I still don't understand the fear of setting this matter up. I agree with those who encourage the highest. To reexamine this decision, the president makes a case of No. Four back on the schedule. We had accepted it earlier today, so we can ask: Does the president have permission to take the matter out of the program since the council had accepted it earlier today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u235	A respectable president. We were discussing this at a council meeting this morning, and it was all part of a deal. I've been here since a council meeting started today and had no idea. I was just snooping. What kind of work are these? You sit outside and expect a speech to be arranged, a vote has been voted on, and then you're going to talk about it, but then it's gone, gone up. You just don't understand this kind of work. I'm totally shocked. Why were we discussing this this this morning at the council meeting? Why were we voting on this? What is the point if it was to be let go of all of this all at once?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u236	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir I was on the night shift last week with a bang because of Haraldsdóttir's granddaughter. The members of the Central Party, who often complained in the President's conference board, said that the discussion would take place at night. Because there was often a complaint that night and many times during that discussion until the night, I wonder that the third energy package is being started earlier, since it is still bright and that, of course, the day from day to day will be longer in spring. I think that should only be glad that the discussion is being started right away and that there is no reason but to do so. I know why. Councilmen have requested to discuss the matter further and have more viewpoints developed so that I do not see why it should not be a reason to start discussing this matter in daylight as desired, a number of people, last week.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u237	Mr. President. I have to agree with them. Congress members who do not realize how this program changes. We discussed this at a council meeting, and it was discussed how best to conduct the discussion. We agreed to take the case. V.E.G. Minister of Justice is in the house. Can the president tell us how the decision was to change a program with such short notice? Surely that is not because of what happened. The members of the Central Party need better time, and here's President and why. Councilmen who so would like to pay off the street. The members of the Central Party? That can't be the explanation. I'd like to ask the president to tell us what it's like to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u238	Mr. President. I would like to agree with those members of the council who first appeared on a public speaker and criticized the arrangement being outlined. This matter has been agreed on by the council and only naturally to be followed by the will of the council. In the case of the critics, what was the point? paritaprevir Insecting Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, it is now that at the time of the President's meeting board last week, it was because the president had issued a statement that would not be spoken all night but that there would be a meeting, and then later the case continued. They were filled with people who had not entered their first talk and were made comments. I must say, this is the second time in a very few days of intense shock to the President's conference board. I'd like to ask a president to explain to us why such tactics are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u239	Mr. President. I would strongly like to agree with the wishes of the senators who have surfaced one by one and direct that question to the highest degree. A president is making changes both to a part of the program and to an agreed program. I don't think that's necessary. I also feel it is unnecessary to speak down to members of the Central Class or other political groups who have been promoting their views in another matter. Everyone knows that I'm a firm spokesman for the energy package going through here, but that's not an acceptable way to speak to those who oppose, since they have to do so in the morning or that they are asking for some special treatment. It's not like that. I'd like to encourage the highest. To resume the program or give a proper explanation of why the language No. 838 has been thrown out of the program. All of this reflects a measure of natural power. No consultations - before noon, all council members were consulted. [[The president calls.]] That led to a decision that needs to be explained to us if we are to conclude the agreed conclusion. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u240	Mr. President. Parliaments from four political parties at the General Assembly have discussed a meeting administration, as shown here in this peculiar and strange decision. I believe it is possible at least that they might become five political parties who object. Of course, there must be an adequate explanation for such a decision. At the same time, I may mention that there was no explanation as to why the chairman's chair was said to be held at midnight last Thursday's afternoon that a meeting would not stand far into the night, as I think it was said accurately. That's exactly what they said. A lot of people took off the rosary. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, met the nail when she spoke of emotional power. [[The president calls.]] We can't live with it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u241	Mr. President. I want to reiterate that it is important to discuss a bill on a change in foreign law. That bill is important, and any delays are coming to the expense of a government fund because the purpose of the bill is to speed up the handling of such matters. Everyone agrees that it is urgent to do so. It's a group of paintings that cost the state funds a lot of money. The budget is now estimated to be 3.6 billion. In the lawsuit, and that amount keeps rising. The Ministry of Justice presented a budget and declared that even this year there would be a total of 2 billion. This bill, which was on the program and an agreement, is about to speed up the situation. That is the advantage of all, the interests of those who seek international protection, the interests of governments, but mainly by reducing the cost of this important category. Such delays, not to mention, may cost hundreds of millions of dollars, keep that in mind. [[The president calls.]] Is there a difference between the parties? Is this treatment acceptable to independence? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u242	A respectable president. Sadly, it is foreign at the General Assembly to use some sort of meeting campaign to influence the course of things. There is a situation that is in my opinion because a meeting board is generally guided by government interests. That's not a new thing. In view of this, I feel that it is very important to keep in mind that when it happens. Councilmen, e.g. The middle party now, experience that their needs for discussion are ignored, and without explanations like those given today, it undermines confidence in a meeting board. There may well be a clear explanation that this matter has been canceled, but I feel it is important to pass it. I like it. Councilmen have the right to do so whether they are members of the Central Party or any other group. I don't like the way things like this are going on here, so I don't need anything. We can take the time to discuss this matter, I'm sure it is, and I probably feel like I'm granting a request right now. The members of the Central Party and others who have mentioned this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u243	Mr. President. I come up here and I want to agree with the senators who have been talking about the change. It was running in great panic to vote earlier today because the program had to be changed, which is No. 4 of the day. This is so that shortly thereafter it has been changed. They had already prepared, but changed, and they should immediately go to the fifth part of the program, which I like to celebrate because I am not going to participate in the rest. Some people call this panic, nervousness, a connoisseur, or some kind of bullies. This may be like what happened last Wednesday night when it was announced that a discussion was coming to an end, when many panel members fell off, because, of course, they were going to talk in the discussion later, when it was next scheduled. [[The president calls.]] That's what I call a bolt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u244	The president would like to inform, if any help is given in this discussion, how this matter was under consideration. The prehistory is that a long time ago, if space were available, they were asked to measure for three first - century constitutions that occurred after April 1. There were two cases from the minister of finance and one case from the minister of justice, saying that. But in any case, it was the common understanding of the council office and the minister that matters would be sent only to committees and that this spring would not be sought out for their release. This was made clear by the minister of justice, and since that was the case, she said that there was no difference between the fact that the matter had simply been presented and presented by being made a bill, and the other, whether it was recommended, that she wished it were not set in motion today. V.E.G. A minister is the mediator of the case, and he has a prerogative of when it commands it, and of course the president was about to take the matter on. That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u245	Mr. President. It is quite remarkable what had to wait for a long time for the explanation that the president has now given about this change in the program. I'd like to underline it and make a decision and say it with a bang. paritaprevir The spirit of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, who knows the natural outcome of the matter, is seen in the eyes of those sitting at ease. The legal committee, to which the matter was to be considered, is not only important because it has fallen to trust in the rightness of the inmates and those in that situation, but also because there has been a ringing alarm and a red warning signal that there is a serious risk that this group is overlawing. That's why you think that in the bill, there's something else you're supposed to do about it. This is a very important and important case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u246	President. For an explanation of the Supreme Court. It must have been before before, for like two hours and earlier today, what the nature of the event that has now been undone should be. Therefore, it is very strange that members of the Parliament have been granted the vote to allow the case to be specifically on the program to be taken away from the program. It's really impossible to put this into context with the events that happened here before the weekend. 23:30 when the president announced that the discussion would be delayed. They would last seven hours, i.e. about the third energy pack, all night. I can't think of a respectable president teaching those presidents who were then seeking to make that decision. But who made that decision? Was the same person who may now make the decision, the surprise, and the seemingly unique decision at the council at least? of the second time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u247	Interestingly, the vote for variation to this matter is of value in itself, as the General has approved a variation to the future event, although it may be later, i.e. Adolescents have been introduced into the issue since April 1. Of course, that is the decision of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u248	A respectable president. There is much to say that these weeks are as well as months when communication between the government classes is not in the best interests of information. But, in view of the explanation at the highest, I would like to know. The president made it clear why the matter is taken off over a period of one and a half hours after voting specifically that it is taken on a program as it was printed at the beginning of a meeting, which these three cases are. Just so I don't have anything to do with it, I want to get to the highest level. The president of the United States has informed what three cases the Ministers have received here in such a way that it is not intended to execute at this council? Indeed, the simple work on committees from what might otherwise be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u249	The president can tell you that the other two cases were from the highest level. The secretary of finance and they have already been put in place and sent to committees, but their payment in this spring is not emphasized and I believe that the committee to which the matter was given to him, the prospective Economic and Business Committee, is fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u250	A respectable president. It was interesting to observe from a distance the discussion that took place before the weekend. Many interesting details were presented in it, both from those who are not fond of the case and from those who believe that it is normal to complete this matter. I agree with the opinion of my share in this case. I based my mind on the matter primarily on the fact that I think we just need to say that that that's enough. We've been implementing energy directives from the European Union for a while. We've been trying to get an pass from them. We have requested some adjustments and adjustments but have failed to obtain them. I can review them later if you need me to. When we think about what's going on with this, we're taking another step in adapting the Icelandic electricity market to the European electricity market. We're about to take another step in making our little electric market look uniform and becoming like the whole European big one. We are also taking a step in accepting, some saying in a direct but indirect way, that the European Union, called ACER Institute, has authority in Iceland, directly or indirectly. I'm most concerned that as we continue on this journey - continuing to generate energy directives, energy packages four, five or what they are now called - we will have to come to the point where we will give up some power or certain sources that we should have, not an international agency ourselves. This talk has been made known as a legal agent. Now, however, it seems to be revealed that the so - called legal agent will see the day in his regulations when it will be stated. This has been suggested in the opinions of groups that have been deeply involved in what this means, e.g. The Ármannsson's son's opinion, that legal provisions or sources of state to provide legal warnings are not found in the EEA Convention. That is why I raise that question, if anyone can later answer it, "Where is it permitted in the contract, to put such a warning, and is it really of any value? " Recently -- I allow myself to say recently, for I don't have the exact date on it -- a scholar raised some questions. I'm not saying it's all black and white, but if there's any uncertainty, at least we need to take a closer look. At least we're supposed to let Iceland enjoy the doubt of this. A man named Baumgart Buumgart, a doctorate at the University of Cologne, was teaching at the University of Akureyri. Max this Baumgart has been around many places. He's a doctorate at the University of Köln, Germany, and Basel, Switzerland, an investigator at the University of Cologne and University of St. Gallen, Switzerland, etc. - I'm not gonna waste my time counting it all up. In the discourse Max Baumgart moved to Akureyri, he reasoned that it was possible to argue that the directive in the EEA Convention, the free flow of goods and services trades, or trades, made it possible to interpret the EEA Convention in the way that Iceland should be linked to this market. I realize that there are a lot of people who have said that this can't apply from time to time, there's a legal opinion that says this can't apply. I'm just pointing out that there is one person here, a lawyer, or a scholar who makes that interpretation possible in this way. So I say it's better to spend the uncertainty than to have it somehow hanging over us. I can't see that it's being destroyed on the paintings here laid for us. The trend in Europe has been that the central management has increased dramatically. The European Union, i.e. In Brussels, this market has made this market more uniform, more competitive, and, of course, often the most successful, efforts have taken place to push such action, including the U.S.A. fined big company, state business, e.g. In Germany - their monopoly made the companies fined for standing in the way of competition. More than a year ago, it was found that the French government had some form of background interview with the European Union to respond to the requirement to privatize the French Lake power plants. The European Union believed that for this effort and for this rivalry to be initiated, the French government would have to give it away and make competition. This was strongly opposed by unions and is, in fact, unclear how it turned out, or I have at least no information about how it ended. At least the French government was trying to respond to the European Union's demands. All of this feels like it's in the same direction. The requirements for energy support are set up. Iceland is given an exception to the gas and geothermal directive because it is not linked to Europe by natural gas. I wondered, then, why are we not getting a reserve from the electric power market or all this electrical charge because we're not connected to Europe by electricity today? Why are we not given free access to what was desired? There have been a number of things happening, and a great deal of water coming from the start of a conversation with the European Union on the issue of leave, the Senate has been covered, and, in the opinion of both professional and administrative committees, there are certain defences, and the need to be careful about the administrative process and all the things we're always talking about. I don't think I'm going wrong, though I say that Stefánsson Monsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst found it's the best solution to bring this back to the EEA Committee. One suggests the same, and the attorney is Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, who, in his review, gives an excellent argument why it should be done. I have to say, all I'm worried about is putting the EEA deal at risk. We do, in my opinion, only by speaking on the other hand, by drawing out the image that we have no choice but to accept the types that come from the European Union. We have the right to shoot these matters, if we think they have to, to the EEA joint committee. There is no explanation, so I know, in the European Economic Convention that it is defined as some kind of emergency. At least I haven't seen it and I don't remember hearing it. It is written there, however, that when it comes to the state's position of not being able to resolve or interpret matters in the way expected, it can be referred to in this direction. I just think that would be the best part. It's actually written what the process will take. It would lead to a conclusion, and of course you would want that conclusion to be granted. I think we're supposed to be able to back it up even more today than we could before. What you're worried about is that the reason people don't want us to be evicted from the electricity, such as the gas, is that in a long future, men will certainly see the potential for Iceland to become an important link in a European electrical exchange by electricity export. It may be one day, but it is important that it is entirely on Icelandic terms and under Icelandic law and all of that and that we choose both how it is distributed, how it's worth, and so on. Many may wonder, " Is this not too late for me to sting? ' That's a good argument. But then you wonder if it will still be too late once we have made it. When we're in a pack of four or five, or how many of them are now, we haven't completely canceled because we can say, "Hey, we have to refer this to the joint EU committee, that's a little too far? So I think it's better to do it now. It has been reported in a State Department memo that one of the reasons that the European Union showed for granting these provisions was that we had developed a package of energy so elegant, in fact, beyond what we were supposed to do; and also that Iceland is no longer a small electrical system but a large electrical system. This does not change the presence of isolation. Nothing new has happened. You've made only fun of these talks that Iceland is a country or not. But I think we can all agree that this blessed country is an island. I find it hard to control why we can't send the case to the EEA Committee. I really think that's the best solution. I think that is the best solution for us who have doubts, those who follow this pattern, to put the matter in a reasonable direction. I don't remember many saying that the European Union will somehow own the falls waters or the earth heat in Iceland. The effects on management and use are of concern, and I think it's safe to worry about them, especially since we're initiating and taking over commitments from institutions that will have to do with this. I also think maybe it would calm the person, at least it would be good, if the council could see a plan for the so-called legal advance to be placed in a Regulation when it has been agreed on, how it is said, how it is inserted. A news report from the State Department's emissary reports that this is exactly the way it will be done. Some have said, in fact, that many of the good laws, e.g. For consumers protection and other products that we have introduced in Iceland, it has come from Europe and the European Union. But there is nothing to prevent us from taking in the Icelandic rights or the good results of others, whether from Germany or from anywhere else, if it seems like that. If we see laws that are working well in some country, we can pick them up and apply them to Iceland. But the European Union has done a lot of good in certain things, and as a result, it has benefited us in a brilliant way, such as. When it comes to consumer rights. I won't hide it. I've said and I'm gonna let myself say it one more time - it'll just be another time and back out of it -- that we shouldn't be afraid to look at the EEA deal. I'm not saying we should break up with him. However, we should not be afraid to reason on the pros and flaws; whether it is that we should try to achieve some sort of change in him, whether we should try to get some things out of our contract, or we want to add something to it: we should not be afraid to go over the matter that way. It must then be criticized, i.e. ... toreexamine the contract for their own benefit, not to start a group that is almost certain of what is coming out of it. We're supposed to sit down and say, "It's a two - way deal. It's a two-part deal, actually more, of course, but Iceland is one party at this deal, and we have the balls to think about these things. Mr. President. I'd like to mention one thing that's been pointed out, but there's an interpretation at least one lawyer or scholar who says in her opinion: Therefore, it would appear that the European Court of Auditors would introduce the correct national commitment to the principal natural resource of Iceland by Regulation but to review later - if a sea cable is to be laid - the legal basis of that Regulation and also to consider whether the induction conforms to the Iceland Constitution. In fact, the lawyer says that there can be some doubt in the government about this legal ground for its own induction. I think it's just that you need to get a clearer picture of the case before you take it further. I think it would at least make the matter a little more clear for those who are trying to study this and worry about where this will lead us. Mr. President. It has become evident that there is considerable disagreement on whether we should introduce this or take steps in the way suggested here. There is a disagreement here at the council, although there is probably more to it than that. I wondered, " Is it too bad to listen to the critical voices that come from outside, in fact just to calm people and get the bottom of the matter? ' I'm not saying that the situation will change in some way, but it's normal to use the channel we have because it's a case I think it's very important to get close to. I have no comment on the fact that I find somewhat special that there are groups here that in the past pronounced themselves very opposed to the production of the energy directive in Icelandic, etc. because of the markets going there, but now they start driving the case. The objective of all these EU types is, of course, to make energy, no matter what its name is, that even more market product than it has been and is today. So why do people need to ask themselves, " Why now? ' Is it because we're too far in the process and we can't affect whether the same thing applies to Iceland or anyone else? Or has there been some change in views, which, of course, is always allowed? My time is running out, Mr. President. I'll let it be over for now and then I'll expect to come back here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u251	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He reviewed a number of things, including this alleged decision force at ACER. I've studied that matter quite well, I think, and I've listened to all the critical words and warnings. I have listened to them with an open mind and tried to rely on conversations that favor the case. Rather, I would rather go to the original data and look at the package itself, the documents themselves. As far as I can see, the Agency's role, ACER, is defined in 7,◯9. par. in Regulation No. 713/2009, a controversial issue I also understand to be warned about, i.e. that the legal warnings we make will say: These laws will not be valid until Iceland's sea cable, more specifically designated the Council, decides for itself whether or not to be laid. What I'm wondering is that even though the EEA thinks this is just a joke, what's in these articles as a dog. A senator would worry that it would have any effect in Iceland if there wasn't already a cable? Therefore, it must be available to read articles that ACER and EEA will not be given the authority to determine whether a cable will be laid and not, in fact, the authority on which the rules should be set if they should be laid - unless there are differences between the Power Institute, the Icelandic Institute, and a comparable government authority in the United Kingdom, prospective Britain. After a 6-month insoluble knot in between, ACER would enter the EU and EEA against the EEA. I can't quite see what it is like. A senator is afraid of this warning or of not holding it. As far as I can see, they're about us putting laws in line with the Icelandic constitution, not that the EEA needs something to believe in this advance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's our job to appreciate it. It's about how it works in harmony with the constitution, about what the U.S. courts might think. Or that's my understanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u252	A respectable president. The trouble with this warning speech, that I may begin there, when we have not yet seen that I know at all, I know why. The senator may just disagree with me about how this foreword should be written, how he should be able to make it possible for us to say what we say, or for those who follow the case, that we are except for this induction in the way that is meant or what is stated in the report. I also fear that, however he may be, by making known who he will be, by law or by decree, he will be even less valid, whether in the charge of Icelandic courts or elsewhere. Because there is no requirement in the EEA Convention that the proforestation as such is of any value. The big issue with ACER and what's going on is that by recording the directives that refer to the ACER, we're initiating the ideologies, we're initiating our goals, we're actually saying we're going to adopt the system on which the ACER is based. What does that mean for the future? I came into my speech earlier that if the ideologies and goals are completely successful and reach Iceland too -- I haven't yet seen that we can be apart from them, I think it's all okay to know where it is -- we're saying that we're going to be involved in this common market, bringing in all the rules that come from. And if we're going to continue to introduce everything that goes on about the ACER and the like: If there should be a cable that I don't know whether it's ever coming or not, we'll, of course, have to be, just click into the existing arrangement, with ACER and all of it. Because we've introduced all the rules and all the ideologies, all the goals it represents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u253	A respectable president. I'm opposed to laying a cable because I don't think it's compatible with Icelandic interests in a wide sense. On the other hand, I can't figure out what would be worse if we were to land a cable, against my will, and if the energy package was introduced in Iceland. I don't know what it is about ACER or the rules we should set -- not ACER, the ACER wouldn't set the rules, the Power Institute would set the rules according to 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 I can't see what's worse. The objective is consumer protection, transparency, competition. That's a good value, and I'd like to keep more surveillance on such things if there was a cable, if we went the wrong way, which I thought was wrong. I don't know anything that would be better to have a cable without the third energy package than to have a cable with a third energy package. I've never heard anything like that. I like to talk about the purpose of this Regulation as if it were something terrible. It's about consumer protection, transparency, and competition control. These are positive values. But I'll just make it right, and I'd like to make it right. Senator: There will not be ACER or EEA that makes the rules. [[The president calls.]] We must make the rules, we have not only permission to do so, but we have an obligation to make those rules ourselves. [[The president calls.]] It's only if there's a disagreement between us and the business country that ACER would enter and the EEA after months of carp and if between them could not be met. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u254	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u255	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. Of course, it is enjoyable and beneficial when competition results in a lower price and better service. But have we really seen that happen at the small electricity market in Iceland? I ask. Now we've seen it develop that way. I'm not necessarily sure. But what I said earlier in my speech and the reason why I have little faith that this is for Iceland's benefit is that we are taking the step we are taking now by implementing the ideologies, and the aim is not merely to introduce consumer protection and aims to consumer protection. We are also initiating the ideologies and aims of a large joint European market where institutions will influence - I'm not going to use a stronger word than that; influence - how prices are going to be done, how it will spread, how it will become new, and what else it will be. [[The president calls.]] I don't think to say that the European Union will control the Earth's temperature, but through its international institutions it will affect how we employ it, to continue in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u256	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson for his speech. It's good to have a word with him where I know it. A senator knows this matter quite well, and with a much longer contract experience than I did, as well as a minister's office. I'd like to ask you first what. A senator whether he or she believes that he and the government he served in in in 2013-2016 made some mistake in this case. The reason why I ask is that this matter has been discussed in the European Commission since 2010, mainly in the Ministry of State, as well as in the Ministry of Ministers and in targeted contact with the Parliament and with a number of members of Congress. I'd also like to ask why. A senator to see if he can identify any aspect of the third energy package that somehow threatens Iceland's safety or independence. I thought why. A senator would discuss this more on general terms as if this were one more step, but there's something real in the third energy package as a dog. A senator fears that the situation will be changed considerably from what is today? I think, too, a respectable president, that there is a reason for this to be brought up here on the basis of the legal recommendations introduced by a Regulation, that the employment board has now received a plan for its discussion and that we, as well as at the National Affairs Committee, have received it. It contains the exact words spoken by the chiefs in the report by the council resolution that we here address, which I would have thought was just very clear and very clear on what was in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u257	A respectable president. It's a pretty big question, especially the first one, if you've made any mistakes. I don't know anything about that. It may well be that I made some mistake there, I have no idea. I followed, however, and we, the rules of recording of the types and procedures of the EEA Convention. We had a discussion with the European Union about dosing. We sought ways to get away from these packages. There was a little listening, really no listening, especially because we had been so good at implementing a previous energy package. The matter goes to the council, until a considerable length of discussion is discussed, if I recall correctly, from the council to work better on the case and longer, so the whole matter was to a normal level. I don't know where the mistake should have been, if it should have taken the case from the council, and if not for the government in the European Union, it should have been handled. I can't figure it out. It would probably have seemed like a terrible thing, tearing the matter out of conquistancy. That's just the way it's been. However, it must be accepted that it is in the autumn of 2016 and in the spring of 2017 that a decision has to be made. You can't escape it, you had to make a decision on the UN joint committee in May 2017. Maybe there was a mistake, I don't know, maybe. But we can correct that mistake, if it was made, by going now to the EEA Committee. Regarding whether I can point out a threat to security or independence, I really fear it. I don't think the uncertainty about how a person or company, Icelandic or foreign, could just sue Iceland for the EFTA Court and ask us to land a cable. [[The president calls.]] And what will happen then? Hence, followers have not answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u258	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It has to be acknowledged that it comes like a thunder from a cloud that the Icelandic government has fought for it, or refused to take up this structure, or to install the package, if I understand why. A senator is correct. I've never seen that in the evidence. When I come to that decision, I get an introduction to it at night. The Foreign Affairs Committee to record this procedure in the EEA Convention, of course, will examine the available data. There I could not find an example of any danger and yet not see the danger. Hv. A senator comes into the debate on the cable. That, of course, is the point that we discussed the most in the course of time. State Department. I think all our guests had that question, and the answers have certainly come. They are in the reality that it is legal to consider that a company could come and demand to disassociate aggressors with the Icelandic government and therefore could sue them. There are a lot of people who have answered those questions and have always answered no. [[The president calls.]] A third pack of energy does not work on the sea cable layer, and it is not possible to oscillate the European government or accept the fixation of the sea cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u259	A respectable president. I want to pray. A senator to leave right behind. I'm very sorry when the senators put words in your mouth like wind. A senator did here. I did not say that the Icelandic government has fought against the induction. We simply accepted this cylinder, which was started in 2013. On the other hand, we were on the other hand, looking beyond all of this in discussions with the European Union, in negotiations on the field of cooperation. We tried, but I'm afraid we didn't. Then the matter is being handled by the Generals. Hv. A senator lies very low by turning his words out of his mouth, I must say. Then I just want to point them out. It belongs to a senator that I know no better than to be quoted by the Department of State at the hour of State, of all magazines, that once this government has been reassigned, there will be a regulations that contain a warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u260	Mr. President. The middle class builds its language on its own prepared ideas about what could happen. There are many indications. It suggests that personalisation of the energy system in Iceland is possible. It suggests that the ACER has power, in part, on energy production and cross-border connections. But what about the hard facts? Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson refers to Germany, but he is not sure what is actually involved. So we're no closer. He refers to France and to the sale of state - driven energy companies, but as far as I know, it's not the European Union's forcedness of the French habit. It's different than what. A senator triggers. So now I'm going to ask you some questions to focus on the discussion. Is an example of pressures, orders, threats, whatever, on the part of the EU, e.g. in the strength of ACER, and in the EU, in the case of a country or state losing any part of control over their energy resources, or that the EU, ACER, part of where, when and how much is activated or how much is exported or purchased by electrical energy through some kind of structure? Because this is the film they paint from Iceland's future. I just need a simple answer. If the senator does not know of such an example, it is likely that we are right, saying that the film is not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u261	A respectable president. I don't know what clearance is. A senator has dealt with France, since he took up the matter. I was simply reading from Reuters, which says that the French were trying to negotiate with the European Union for a promise to replace their existing energy companies. This is because the European Union made that claim, well. Senator. It's a little special to see what's going on. A senator, an agent of the left green, comes here for a speech chair and struggles to make energy markets, fight to turn electricity and energy into commercial products. This is something you wouldn't have believed would be seen here on the left green. But there it is now. This is what the world is all about. Even so, sometimes you wonder whether the left - green class has become the right category or is actually the left class. In fact, some good former senator and minister asked if the word should be taken from the title of this company. That's life now. The Senator asked if I knew of any threats or pressures on the European Union. I already mentioned two. So I speak for myself personally, I'm not speaking for any member of the Central Party or anyone else who has doubts about this, I am deeply worried about the step we're taking by introducing this directive today. I think we're moving closer to link Iceland's market for the European energy market. We do this by taking in and implementing the governments and powers established by the European Union in Iceland. The effect may be limited today and may be limited tomorrow or even absent for some time. But what will they be like when we get closer to the future? [[The president calls.]] Once we've introduced energy packages four, five and six, etc.? When the goal is obvious, a common uniform competitive power market supported by the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u262	Mr. President. It's all right. A senator is concerned about the left green, but the fact is that we are applying facts, not the right or the left. [[I got it.]] We're just applying the real authority, ACER, which is not what it is. A senator says. Then I'll also come to the inner markets now, let's say, based on voluntary transactions by electrical energy, free trade and follow-up, on the structures in which the state wants to build. Where is the EU policy to find, or ideologies, that the internal market will be in short format? A senator says? With prices, by EU involvement in the internal energy of other countries? Where can we find this ideologies? Hv. A senator says it exists. Then he must know where to find her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u263	A respectable president. I'm worried about what. A senator should not have studied the European Union's energy policy and read e.g. For example, the relationship's energy policy, energy exchange policy. For example, where to head for 2050? In all of this, the exact same thing is expressed. The ideologies that humans are now considering the objectives and tools involved in one common energy market. Their theory is that even if you live in Germany, you can buy energy in France or Lithuania at a price that is obvious and obvious and that there is a price monitoring. To ensure that there is no monopoly and that it is a competitive, competitive market. I feel special that left greens are ready to contribute to the European competitiveness of Icelandic energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u264	A respectable president. We're here to discuss an energy pack three more and more, and it looks like we're good enough to have some friends on this matter. I'd like to go over the process a little because I'm only worried about whether men and women are really aware of what we're doing or whether people are going through some wishful mind about what we're doing. The energy pack consists of Regulation 713/2009, 714/2009, 715/2009 and the induction of the ships, including This is the European Directive No. 93/2017, from May 5, which contains this administrative notice. So we figured out how this works for the European Economic Area Convention, i.e. In fact, the EEA countries we are part of, that we have made a commitment to adopt laws and regulations from the European Union after they have been addressed into the joint EEA committee. This case has now grown to such an extent that this particular directive has been referred to in a joint EEA committee and has been forwarded to the Council. It will take effect with administrative notice, i.e. This regime needs to be put back on notice by the general council. Norway and Liechtenstein have already done so, but the International Parliament has already had to do so in order for this to take effect. What does that involve? It is the stated objective of the government that part of this directive will be implemented correctly, that is, the Parliament's decree, and that it will be introduced with legal advance on the induction process, i.e. to be set as a legal officer in the Regulation. This legal premise, as far as I'm next able, is now subject to regulations. We have to ask ourselves, " Is this exactly what the EEA deal is, that we're going to bring it in, and then we're going to have a legal notice? ' If there is an opinion following the induction of the third energy package, who would judge if the stakeholders felt that they had something to do with the third energy package? Who judges? Won't that be the EFTA Court? Or do I get it all wrong? What law will the EFTA judge? He's probably going to judge by the European legislation. It was noted in the previous talk that recently the EU decided to bring eight Member States into court for violations, for the break-in of the 2006 service directive and the 2014 official shopping directive, for not attending public tenders. These countries were: Austria, France, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Britain, and Italy. The European Union is taking over the management and use of this resource in part. In the Parliamentary decree, it says under the permission of a president: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced in Icelandic correctly but under legal notice that the infrastructure that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets will not be built or estimated unless the exception of a review of the law on the basis of the Regulation and the implementation of its cross-border laws will be carried out only after this review. It will also be considered even further and specifically at the Generals field whether its introduction in these circumstances harmonizes with the Icelandic constitution. With this sanctimonious decree, the government will be relieved, won't it? That. value is valid. Or is the minister going to violate his own proposal adopted by the General and not follow it? Afterwards, those interested in taking care of some energy or what under a pack of energy three will seek their rights for the EFTA Court. I'm worried that we're starting backwards, that we're not doing this right. I'm surprised to say, because we're all agreed that we want this warning, we're not glad to introduce it in Icelandic rights, that we don't do them the way the EEA treats, and we'll take it into terms with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u265	Mr. President. Hv. Central Party Parliaments are harping on international decisions designed to identify the future on the EU market in energy. When asked about, like just now, what's the policy, there's talk of trade between countries, energy prices that are transparent and good surveillance, and so on. Everything is true. This is the case because this is exactly the content and policy of increasing the proportion of green energy. This is all the basis for free business and negotiations between countries. It does not have ACER authority to skim over state to switch energy exchange at a given rate, not by decisions that the state should sell enough energy from abroad or that certain lines and sea cables should be placed. No. So now I want to ask you what. A senator who was before me: Does he disagree, or do he agree? Then it comes to the sea cables: How the European Union can force us to lay down or accept sea cables - and I'm not only talking about laying sea cables but also accepting sea cables - across all internal legislation on implementation, strategy, planning, assessment of environmental effects, and I don't know what else to count? How is it to be granted permission to lay, let's say in our case, the ocean cable for the base and the economic legal history? Are we really going to be told that the European Union, through the EEA Convention, has permission to do this or can in some way prove that this is a fact? Now I'd like a second's opinion. A senator on this sea cable that can be connected to the country by some means.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u266	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is very much acquitted for his inquiry. In fact, the European Union's internal markets and types say. that they are primarily responsible for the Marketing Authorisation and competitive factors, to facilitate bioavailability to market generation in electrical and geological regions. Furthermore, using the third energy directive, it goes further to promote an active power market by ensuring the separation of assets. How could this be done? Why should it be up to remove both political and commercial obstacles? This should be ensured by various measures. It's relatively open. This may be what's being made a comment in the lawyers'opinions, that the authority is too open, and not too limited. Now the third energy pack is available. The fourth is on its way, and the fifth one is building. If we take this step, the others will follow. That's for sure. That knows why. A senator who is well - versed is all right here. The fifth energy package is not fully developed. Maybe it's what we're talking about. A senator will appear in a talk that follows, informing us about what is in him and what will be incorporated there and what will not be. Can he say that there will be no further increase in ACER's authority or authority on the European Union? That's what I'm talking about. What's strange about all of this is that although it is agreed to introduce, by warning about the cable, that it should by no means be the way of which the European Economic Convention applies. No, there should be some local route, and no one who can come up and answer the legal defense if he is holding or referring to a similar case in which legal orders have been held.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u267	Mr. President. But, no, they may not work very well here, I don't know. As well as access to energy, separation of some holdings - I was asking about authority rights to interfere with energy production, repair new paths, or cross-border transport. I was asking about the real authority of the ACER, which, in some way, explains the image that the person had. Senators are making up. All right, I didn't get an answer in my opinion. Seastring - I was asking how the European Union or the ACER could control the legal sources we have here that are essential for a cable to be laid off either by us or by others. You can't force a sea cable - it's going to be laid, say men - anything you don't do. Hv. A senator must give some explanation if this is to be an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u268	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite realize where it is. A senator is leaving. Because this is a living document, this is not a closed document that will not change. It is clear that numerous talks have been given by those who are a follower of, those in charge, and those who are opposers who say, "We don't want a cable. " And it's set up on legal notice. I ask in my speech, " Why is this way gone? ' There is no one who can get up here, claiming that a cable is not required. Or what does it mean to remove political and commercial barriers to the Kingdom? Does that not mean that it should be authorized? And what decision? Isn't it ACER who has the right to decide and write the requirements for ESA? I just don't understand, you know. Mr President, what's so hard to understand?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u269	A respectable president. I'd like to mention it again. I often talked to you about what. A senator last week on this matter and on this legal note. He says the wrong thing again, which is strange for how often this has happened here. And now even the Regulation has been sent to the Directorates of the Employment Committee and what to do. The Foreign Affairs Committee to help ensure that the defense is accurately recorded from the synonym as discussed here. There is no question that this is, of course, as always declared, as we multi-itemed here last week, and very clearly in the Regulation, and it can be said only when it is also established by a common understanding from the EU energy manager and EFTA countries in the common EEA committee that it is clear, as if I would like to say it today. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for he may not have directly discussed this in his talks: What is he concerned about in the third energy package? There's a lot of time you've spent flaying about what's not in it and what could possibly be somehow in it or the nearest energy packets. I trust the highest. Secretary of state and what. The Foreign Affairs Commission to keep a good eye on this issue, as it is in the early stages of the European Union. What's in the third energy pack like a dog? A senator can point out that he is concerned about? I might start by getting the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u270	V.E.G. President. Here we go. A senator speaks of the whole thing as being explained and that she used to speak to me in earlier talks about the warning so called. Here at about four o'clock last Thursday, if I recall correctly, there was a riot at the executives when this legal advance was asked out. Hv. A senator stated that they were found in the synopsis proposal and that they were correct in saying a word. I think it's quite far enough to say that this is a legal warning against the regulations that are being held. Or it can. A senator pointed out that such premonitions have been made elsewhere, and have they been held? I don't think so. In fact, I have repeatedly discussed my talks about why my concerns are involved in this matter. They're about to be introduced first, to the Constitution, to the tactics used. I've said it repeatedly here that if it's so that a world of Congress agrees that it's okay to introduce this model but in advance, it's also saying that we're not happy with the energy package as a whole. If we are not content with the entire energy package, I'm concerned that it is done in a way that is legally obliging, not trusted by any human, to appear here in a pita and confirm or maintain the full possibility of holding and supporting his case by the criticism of lawmakers. That's what concerns me. Because I can't any more than others can imagine what will come next in the fourth and fifth energy packets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u271	A respectable president. I'm very happy if there's nothing in the third energy pack. In fact, a senator is concerned. That makes me very happy. And if it's only a legal one, I'll be happy to stay here all night and discuss it in particular, because it is made according to the motion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and the Friðrik of Hirst, the scribes as well. A senator and a what. Councilmen from the Central Party can refer to them. It is legal in that it means that we will not take up judicial decisions and that they will not take effect. This is clearly stated in the Parliamentary decree and in the Regulation as a matter of course. Parliaments have been sent and will become valid later. I'm glad it's the only thing that's ever happened. Councilmen want to understand more, because we have endeavored to answer that and even send the regulations in which the warnings are made, directly from the synopsis that we here address. [[The president calls.]] So I'm especially happy about what's happened. A senator's only concerned about this. [[The president calls.]] In fact, all the scribes felt that this legal arrangement was unnecessary. But it is based on the suggestions of the scholars as well as those of others. A senator usually points in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u272	The president once again reminds the senators to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u273	V.E.G. President. It's nice to be able to make a few words of joy, and I also rejoice at it. A senator looked forward to participating in the discussion here tonight and tonight because of the weather. A senator was here in the house for the past night, on Thursday, and was repeatedly called after her discussion, but she did not trust herself to come here to explain her subject. But as far as I'm next able, after my conversations with law-enforcement men, there is a very high possibility that a legal prefect is contained in a Regulation to be legally accountable for anything under law. The law stands in the law more than the national rights of the land. I think that must be very clear. I think someone has to find out here in a pita that can explain to us whether there are precedents and whether the European Economics Convention offered this arrangement to keep it going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u274	A respectable president. I'll try, but I'm not sure that time will do me good, but I'll have a talk below and plan on going on in case there's any time left. I need to go home at some point now. This is stated in the opinion of Stefán, Már of Stefánsson and Brother Friðrik Fridek, Árni of Hirst, by permission of a president: The decision of the General Assembly on whether or not to reduce Iceland's policy-making information to the third energy package and introduce it in the Icelandic national rights to aim for the setting of cross-border infrastructure, which under these circumstances would test the environmentally controlled power capacity to ESA, particularly according to Regulation No. 713/2009 I'm here to point out that the models are not about what EES or ESA thinks of them. They're here to pass our constitution according to our law and not the EEA. Hv. A senator wondered: " What if someone is looking for justice in their case? ' par. Regulation No. 713/2009 with EFTA? What I'm pointing out is that there is no objection to such charges, there is no sea cable in Iceland, and it will not be unless this decision is made here. As a result, there is nothing in terms of 7,◯9. par. in the agreed regulations that can be agreed on, only for existing transpospheric cables or connections, which are very clear, including in terms of loss of opinion. Scholars. I also have to read from D- force 3 of the reviews of the same scholarly story to this case, which says, by permission of the president: The ACER (ESA) authority does not reach the decision whether a cable will be laid. These permissions apply only in the presence of such a connection. Therefore, these measures will not be tested unless the Allied Council decides to link Iceland to the EU electronic energy market by means of a cable, and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. There's nothing to accuse, a respectable president. This is not about what the EFTA court thinks. [[The president calls.]] It is about how the constitution works, and the harmony is achieved with this case, and it is undisputed, even among the most conservative scholars on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u275	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He quoted a paragraph on page 20. Twenty-five of the opinionable scholars. The end of that paragraph reads: ... but under those circumstances, the debated administration of power to ESA would be tested, particularly under Regulation No. 713/2009 And with President's permission: No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if it is not to be tested in the face of an tolerated law code. So it has to be logical and indeed inevitable that a policy-making approach to policy-making agents related to the third energy package is already connected, and that is, before the General Assembly agrees with the third energy package. Let's just say we'd accept this directive today with a concierge proposal, then we'll take a stand on this. In other words, timeliness is wrong. That's why I'm worried. I just can't quite get over the fact that it's so hard to get it out here in the Generals' symposium, from those who have studied all of this and who know exactly what the matter is, while it looks like it's all alone on the corner and it doesn't seem to leave them up or down in this, as you hear from this chair. Why was the inferior route chosen, the inferior route designed by these scholars? The route considered defective was chosen. And it is decided, forgive the language, that itches on the constitution by putting in some warning that no one can tell us whether it will last. [[The president calls.]] Has there been any confusion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u276	A respectable president. Yeah, it's been blown away. This is also shown in the fifth, foreboding. Scholars on this matter, to the path as it went. A senator wants to leave, and the middle party is not flawless either. There is no flawless way. It's a worldwide organization. It's just not that you get all the golden pot in your hands and you don't have to give back anything. That's not how cooperation works. That's not how politics works. That's not really how anything works. Hv. A senator went on to the legal basis for the need for this warning. And you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that we must keep the constitution, even if the law is not now valid. That's what I'm talking about. The scholars were pointing out, and that's why the models were given. And the same scholars plainly say that this is enough. All lawyers agree on this point, anyway I know - certainly these two dogs. Scholars because they are quite clear in their opinion. By the way: Suppose this administrative doubt exists - I do not agree that he is there, but more about it when I have more time - but let's say he's there - he comes up when the decision to put a cable. [[The president calls.]] In other words, by creating a administrative doubt or by postponing a cable until that time, we would trouble it. [[The president calls.]] It's to protect the interests of Iceland that they want to protect by opposing a cable. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think the matter is a good thing for those who don't want a cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u277	A respectable president. I haven't talked to you about whether I'm against a cable or not, but I'm ready to tell myself that I'm opposed to being laid on the basis of non-U.S. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator says that most deals are such that you give up something and you want something back. But I can only see that once this type has been introduced, it's too late for warning. And it is very clear in this discussion of possible solutions by scholars we discuss, that the first way is simple legal and is supported by the European Economic Convention. I've never seen it documented that the course chosen is going, to provide legal warnings, has support in the European Economic Area Convention. [[The president calls.]] And if that is so, if I'm correct with that, then there must be a violation of the contract and we'll probably be shocked to break the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u278	A very impressive president. I had planned to deliver a talk on the development of energy markets in the European Union, but I have to wait for them to give a speech because I find it more urgent to commend young people who scraped money together to buy very expensive animals, I expect, open the newspaper to advertise their support for the EEA Convention. Now I don't think I can tell every one of those 272, I think it was, agents who bought this ad for this deal, or whether they all think the deal is perfect the way it is. But at the present time, it has to be acknowledged that it is respectable to make such a statement that it is important to be on the watch for a contract that they consider important to the future interests of the Icelandic nations. And the government must take this message to itself. As a result, she must look at what we've been pointing at here, huh? The members of the Central Party and others, that journey, so that I am now using Community affairs, a respectable president, in whose case the government is in this case, is in danger of putting this agreement at risk. We must be aware that the European Economics Convention is the type of failure, as agreed at the outset, to ensure the mutual interests of Iceland and other countries involved in this agreement. It cannot be that we want the agreement to develop in that we Icelanders, apparently one nation, do not trust us to use the laws of the agreement to set matters straight, decide matters in which one nation feels that its interests are before the table. But the contract guarantees this very thoroughly, including with 102 st. where it is assumed that when one nation or more people are concerned about walking against their own interests, the case is referred back to the European Commission and led to resolution in a so - called reconciliation process. Could it be, your feisty, respectable President that the government does not want to use a policy of reconciliation specifically planned in the contract to end this case? In view of the fact that so many have declared their will to represent the EEA Treaty, we must want to apply such regulations and defend our rights within that contract, setting a positive example for the future rather than set the negative example for which I am, unfortunately, heard to too many people speak, that we must yield within this cooperation in order not to support our fellow citizens. It is a very dangerous example, a respectable president, for we have already seen that how well Icelanders have coped with the introduction of European rules, including. On energy issues, it has been used as evidence that we need to continue making comments. Is it not, then, of utmost importance to set a precedent for us to be willing to take advantage of the advantages in the agreement to protect our own interests and thus defend this cooperation for the future? If we go the other way and begin to view this contract as some kind of terrorist relationship between us and our fellow members of this agreement, it is more than anything else to weaken the agreement. Can we not agree on taking into account the challenges of those who want to defend the EEA agreement and use its benefits, especially to protect our interests, at least when we believe that there is considerable doubt that they are on guard with the approach that exists?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u279	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by taking the bottom off with what. A senator commending the young men who collected this advertisement end up so important that we think about the future of young people when we discuss matters here at the council, no matter what their nature. That's exactly why I feel this way, and I know that many people who participated in this advertisement of the young people I know and work in politics, different political groups, agree with me that it is totally irresponsible to make use of this security program, or an emergency program, in this matter. I think it's very strange. A member of the council will discuss that this is some process of reconciliation, and it needs to be an example in this matter now. Hv. The need for this matter was widely discussed by a foreign - language committee, and the majority of the study concluded that it was not. This driver has not been used in the 25-year history of the contract. Therefore, I would feel that it would be absolutely irresponsible to go to certain dangers for nothing. That does not mean, however. A government will not use this authority if it is needed. It will, indeed, do so when such things are needed, because there is an important source to be used carefully and wisely when necessary. We do not see that need today, and most of all is stated in the minority of the foreign committee on what this alleged need is directed. But I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council, because he went over the treatment of reconciliation: What would he do in that treatment of reconciliation? What does he want out of her? What does he want to change?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u280	A very impressive president. I didn't think any of it was necessary. A senator specifically mentioned that in this advertisement, many members of the juvenile party were members of certain political parties. I had not chosen to make it a subject. But all right, there's nothing worse when people who are active in certain political parties make their way with an advertisement. But we must agree that if the will is real among these people and others to protect the EEA deal, we need to make good use of the assets it gives us, especially when it is controversial and difficult to deal with. Hv. A senator asks me what should be done by redirecting the case to the European Commission. It's easy to say, a respectable president: we must want to achieve at least ... tothe administrationofthe administration of this case. We must want at least is confirmed by the government's warnings, although it has been difficult for the members of the administrations to point out the warning and refer to many directions in that regard, we must want them to be warned at least at the same time. Confirmably according to the contract. While it may not be possible for the Icelandic government to come to that place, you may be afraid that, based on a discussion of this matter, you may not even be afraid to take advantage of the arrangement that the contract guarantees us to receive formal confirmation, receive an advance from the regulations that are not relevant to you, but will continue to use it as a certain former chairman of the Independence Party called praiseworthy deception.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u281	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah. A senator tries to make it suspicious to be pointed to many places when directed to the officers. This is not surprising because they are in many places, consisting of all kinds of things, especially in today's troubled languages. The employment committee requiring that the council agree whether or not we commit a cable. Then there are the warnings given in the synonym, which will be referred to in the special Regulation of the subject when we withdraw governmental warnings on the matter. So I think it's just a truth that they're in many places, and the more part is right there. It's kind of hard to be suspicious of it, so the only opinion that felt the need to make a special decision is that these regulations were not in Iceland. We've hit a wound. The Foreign Affairs Committee identified all the experts who were numerous to the committee and also in all opinions that the warnings were not even needed because we were only pointing to the obvious things, that it would require that we not be connected, because we are not connected. So all scholars considered these legal warnings unnecessary, unless the two people who thought they were needed and brought up the idea of doing this as the government does here. So it's pretty hard to say that this is very controversial or difficult. It's just not anymore. All the questions that have been placed on the table, any misdeeds that have been said, and even the regulations that are involved that will not be taken into effect, have been answered. So I don't know which way. A senator is going by believing that he is somehow defending the EEA agreement and does not really understand that he is choosing this matter and that he is responsible for the future of going on this uncertainty, which we have received confirmation that it is not as easy as that of a dog. A senator wants to mean. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u282	Therefore, the president is directed to the council to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u283	V.E.G. President. It's a little weird. The head of the State Department should now consider it a special option to point to a warning here and there in one of the reports and one of the steps of the others and these. I don't know if the Directorates go off before the night's work to point out any Facebook entries to confirm that someone has had a warning about the induction, because it is absolutely clear how this European partnership works and how the EEA deal works. There is no one example - not one example of one - sided warnings about induction. Actually, I'm not sure, and I don't think there's one example of this being tried, of implementing the EU Regulation, while at the same time ensuing a report or somewhere else, that people would like to have certain warnings on the induction process. When that happens, I suspect that's going to happen. And because of what? A senator refers to the scholars who specifically pointed to the importance of taking a close look at these warnings, then their case showed that they had not seen this warning, but that they had to be the nature of the induction. But now the government is offering a traditional full implementation if I recall the wording correctly, the third energy package as a whole, and it also describes that there are some warnings in which a person would like to be there. It is, of course, not an acceptable procedure for the Allied Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u284	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he would be willing to retract what is presented in a committee list. A senator on the case, but it says, by permission of the president: The implementation of a third EU energy package is in accordance with the Constitution. After that, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Fridek Árni of Hirst, are considered. For the treatment of the situation. The same question was received by a foreign press committee. The scholars who were taken from every doubt - it says, by permission of the president: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamentally in the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. Much further comments were made to the way that they have begun to think that it might be possible that ESAs would do some research on this. But then they reason on four lines why it is incredibly unlikely. In fact, I feel that it is impossible to do so personally because there is no objection to such an examination while no one is the sea cable. But it's clear from the evidence that this will go into operation. But okay, okay. Let's say I'm wrong. Then I'd like to pray. A senator to tell me, if he is not prepared to take back the fact that this case violates the constitution, which scholars came to the committee, or wrote a review of any doubts, that the case, as it is presented today, remains a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u285	V.E.G. President. It is customary during the council to thank others. Even when there is no reason to respond, members of the council may be anxious for a talk or a comment. But now I think it's a special occasion to say thank you. A senator for this answer, because the letter was as good as it was. A member of the Council referred to it is precisely so that, in other words, the problem is postponed, which in itself is a very peculiar approach to the government, they need to translate that the induction is not to take place, and, in other words, the problem is delayed, which is, in itself, a very peculiar approach, to try to put a case through the council in a way that they intend to accept something, or to agree to accept something, while agree that it does not take effect, should not apply, and consequently delay the problem. The problem with this, however, is that in view of experience, it is expected that when a person, as the government announces, fully introduces this package of energy, he will have comments in a report, that this council would very much like to discuss the matter later, very little to say. But it was very good. That is exactly what the senator should bring up, showing the absurdity of this case that governments are trying to introduce something, but at the same time they hope it will not take effect and therefore do not raise these questions about how the constitution will be affected. If they're actually ensuing, as if they seem to be trying very hard to do here, then they're ensuing. This will be implemented into the Icelandic law and apply to the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u286	A respectable president. Hv. Actually, a senator did not answer my question, at least not so I understood it. But if I try to extort myself beyond that question. The senator, the translation of what I asked, is the answer: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Like what? A senator put it this way, postponing the problem. I would say that the problem is just no longer bound to this matter. However, it would come back if there was a suggestion to lay a cable, and that suggestion simply does not exist here. It is not for discussion, and personally I would not support such a suggestion. However, because this governmental doubt is raised, the incident that activates 7,9. The controversial debate, which would be transposed by sea cable, means there is no doubt whether this case is a constitution or not. I hope I'm clear. I don't know how to be any clearer than this. There is no doubt that I am in the reviews of this case, and I have not heard of any legal person, the opinion which has been here for discussion, which has revealed any doubt that this case, as it is presented here, will remain a constitution. No one. But it's in the opinion of who. A senator, in the minority opinion, is made like this case, as it is now suggested, could violate a constitution. That's why I have to ask again, in fact, with the thought that I'd like to get an opinion. The senator of my analysis that the Constitution question moved on to the fix of the sea cable which is not here for discussion, but could delay a transponder if it came up here: Did any comments from the legalized men who came to a meeting of the Committee, or send it a review, since there was some doubt that this case, as presented here, would appear to be a constitution? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u287	V.E.G. President. I suppose it's not surprising that I'm surprised at what you're saying. A senator would argue that there was no doubt about the fact that this case was a constitution. It is enough to refer to the opinions of the former scholars but also to the analyses of the Ennis. All of this points to the same fact as saying that the way to avoid a conflict is not to be introduced. Hv. A member of the conference, both now and before, points out correctly, let me say, a respectable president, to prevent the introduction from postponing the problem, to create a new and even bigger problem in the future that could, you might think, if there were a reason for this warning, would reduce the likelihood that a sea cable would be laid. This is the old Cold War terror theory, which pointed out that it might be good for world peace to be armed with nuclear weapons because if someone started to bomb, the others would do the same. Now it's set up for us here at the Council, by reason of what. At least a senator, that we should think of postponing the problem into the future creating a problem in the shape of a cable that people are afraid to attack that song. But sadly, a respectable president, I fear, and I expect many others, that in due course, we would have the same evidence that those who would not be willing to open the market in such ways would simply in isolationists and against the international community and the EEA treaties.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u288	I would like this speech, although it's a little out of line with the way I finished my talk Friday afternoon to commend a certain initiative shown, that I think, on the press paper this morning, that on the third hundred people advertised and encouraged. We senators, or I understood it that way, to make sure that international cooperation, especially in Europe, on the basis of the EEA Convention, is pre-communicative. This morning's ad says, with permission from the President: We support the continued involvement of Iceland into the EEA Convention. We want a free, open, global society. I think it's worth a lot to pay for this large group to join us and send this urgent appeal to us members of Congress. Of course, it cannot be understood differently, so this includes continuing the course of international cooperation and ensuring that international cooperation, which we are involved here to this point, will be on an equal basis. No one would think that this large group would be advertising a full - page opening with the idea that we are in the international community where there is a considerable housework and that we Iceland find ourselves in the position of giving more and more to it. This cannot be the purpose of a declaration like this. So I would like to agree with what this fine group put out there in the News magazine this morning and think that we should take this as an appeal to our senators to stand up for Iceland's most important interests in international cooperation and be careful not to use it as a special reason, when it comes to surrendering, that we might be exasperating or contributing to our partners. Of course, our partners just assume that, that's how life works in contracts between two parties, that the parties of the agreement could be of their interest. The opposite is completely absurd. I'll mention this because during the discussion that has already been conducted here at the Hall, some of the supporters of this pack of inputs, the third energy package, have spoken according to the EEA Convention. We in the Middle East have repeatedly been shocked to want to undermine the EEA Treaty and, in fact, have many of us developed opinions in the reality that our ultimate objective in this opposition to the induction of the third energy package is to resist and the first steps to undermine the EEA Convention. It's just not like that. I took this advertisement this morning, where young people, on a third hundred people, appeal to us for fine works - I give myself that most people do - in order that we should continue to do this cooperation well but at the same time not just give up. It's like in every contract between parties that you always get into some sort of reconciliation process. Whether it's company or marriage - a lot of people know it, men and women - there is a need for reconciliation on a regular basis. It's a way of finding out that the EEA Convention is that way written in connection with 102. g. It is not as if it has to be surprising that at some point in the EEA, at some point there will call for a case to return to the European Commission to this very channel built at the beginning of three decades ago. We're not supposed to be any bit small about this, and we're gonna take this pressure from the News News magazine this morning in a positive way, standing up and doing what we're doing on the international cooperation we're in, based on the fact that equal rights are being kept between parties and Iceland's interests not being served.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u289	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before this speech, and I'm basically in agreement with him. However, I would like to ask him a little more about his understanding of how contracts really work. Hv. A senator has had a lot of professional experience, and for years and decades he has followed politics as well, I think it is safe to say. It has come up with a discussion about this energy package that we are in some way making it harder for us, even putting the deal at risk, using the principles in it. In fact, I feel that way, and that's what I'm interested in whether or not. A senator agrees with me that the use of the rights that are present in a contract is the opposite in order to strengthen the laws and possibilities of men thereafter to make good use of them. If, now, a man has a measure, perhaps 102 C.E. In this case, haven't been new for so long, that that's why we can't use it, I would think it would be a fall to make it harder for us to use it later. On the other hand, if we were to use the article and make a definite example of it and to refer to this matter in the terms of the covenant arrangement, I would think that we would be in the future to strengthen our chances of making use of this article later. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with my opinion and therefore agrees that he is reluctant to use the article, not at all, but to weaken him and our position within him as well as that of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u290	Mr. President. The short answer is yes. But just a little further answer to this fine question - and thank you very much. A senator for the counter - it is known that every person who has had to negotiate with another person for a longer period of time knows the nature of a contract you intend to make once and a long-term contract. You're buying a car or bicycle in a living store, but it's different, such a short-term business relationship, a business venture, or a contract relationship like that in the EEA Convention. The nature of such cooperation is anything but a short - term business relationship. If, according to the contract, men hold back from using the right, using the rights of a nation, such as Iceland, it will weaken the situation as we move forward. Then they will refer to the conversation that took place here at Council of 2019 C.E. that in the spring of the year, the majority of which concluded that this process, once again referred to the joint EEA committee, had more to do with punt 25 years ago and there was nothing to do with it. I think the way to make sure that the defenses in the contract really work is to use them when there's a reason. I am absolutely convinced that this is a reason for returning the matter to this channel that has been present for the past half of the 1920's. There is nothing that has been presented in the discussion that suggests that we should be of little importance in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u291	V.E.G. President. I'm glad that you did. In contrast, a senator would mention a point that I would specifically ask in a second answer, i.e. The dangers involved in how this matter is handled today and the examples it may set. How the Icelandic government is getting close to this now and reducing our rights in their words and actions, reducing our rights under this contract, we must conclude that it is a warning example that can take on us very seriously later. But I was also going to mention the examples already set, because the Icelanders have often come close to the EEA deal in ways that want to be a good producer. Sometimes it is said that we are more Catholic than the pope in that regard, and people have given many details about how the various European nations have allowed themselves to overlook the various aspects of the agreement, while the Icelandic government and the government system here have followed this with a sense of urgency, so that I do not use strong language, following this European Union's strict adherence. However, this is not particularly true of the energy issues, since the implementation of Iceland's energy directives, I understand, when it is expected that other energy directives are less expected by people in the EU today to be required by the Icelanders, in view of their success in implementing other energy directives. Is that not a clear reminder of the importance of intervening at this point, so that we do not get into the same energy package four and five when and when they come?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u292	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The second answer was Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson. The person here may quite admit that he did not know exactly if he was supposed to laugh or cry when it was used as a specific reason, for Iceland should introduce the third energy package as it happened, that we had been able to do so well with the induction of a previous energy package, even going much further than we had to do, and therefore it would be a small matter for us to take care of this third package and do it with a brambles. So you're saying right now, I don't think men with friends like that need enemies. If there is something that is likely to quickly undermine the position that humans have in a two - side agreement, it is the manner that this is, where there is clear opportunity for interestkeeping is not new and not just a protection from interest guard but, in this case, the induction that is thought, by the majority of the councilroom, does not have any real significance to the local market. But that is what we had doubts about. However, they somehow convince themselves that this is such a small, superintendent that there is no need to post defenses. So it is only a matter of personal reasoning, and then it continues before the Senate that it is in the palm of the mind to introduce it, because it has been so successful with the previous energy package. I just reiterate what I said in my first reply, that the hard work of hanter 102. g. in such a way that she was up on a pin at the time, that is the leading road to undermine the course that truly belongs to us there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u293	A respectable president. I didn't mean to tell you what. A senator, and if I were to oppose him, I would correct what he said rather than ask him. Then he said why. A senator something I would like to ask about. He said we shouldn't give up, and then he put it that way, and I'm sure I'll be right back. 3.m. Northeast standard, that we should not be small. I wondered, in the light of the facts, if we have a common understanding of the facts of the matter, if that understanding is common, we can settle it with the facts that confront us in the matter itself, in written evidence and indisputed facts that follow. The question, though, is: Give what? What is it Iceland should be willing to sacrifice by accepting this third energy package? What on earth is that? Even if we're in the dark, we're going to take it with us. par. Under Regulation 713/2009, we are not giving in to anything. Also, I think this is in line with the saying that we could lay down a cable, but we should do it on our terms. If we put the cables on them, we'll always do it on our terms and on those to whom we put the cables. We do not just place a sea cable in Britain and just decide for ourselves. That's because we're talking diplomacy. Of course, more people than Icelanders do. It's not logical, and it doesn't belong. But the case does not violate the constitution. It's just clear. I don't really feel like arguing about it anymore, a respectable president. If anyone says otherwise, it's just wrong. This does not involve a sea cable but, contrary, this will make his hair difficult, as I have done many times. This does not mean an increase in prices over emotional fluctuations within each household, since the cost of monitoring is, of course, slightly increased by 47 million. K. It's minus 49 million elsewhere with the state's funds. This does not involve the dissociation of enterprises. This does not include personalization. This does not include increased market coverage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Energy is already marketed and will remain, regardless of the third energy package. Our priorities must be transparent, competitive surveillance, and consumer protection. But I just have to ask, " Give what left over? ' [[The president calls.]] Be little about who we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u294	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u295	Mr. President. It may be difficult to reason with those who are responsible for the truth, who understand everything correctly and have undisputed facts in all directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u296	So do you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u297	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u298	So do you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u299	Look, what we're talking about here, and I think it's strange - I've noticed it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has been sitting here for a long time listening to the discussion that has taken place. In case of a moment. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson feels this way so that the members of the Parliament's resolution aren't warning about going back to the joint EEC, I don't know what. I think that's what we're talking about. When a senator sits in the hall, he doesn't have his name. But I think that everyone who has listened to the discussion with a more careful observation must be aware that a large proportion of the arguments that have been presented against redirecting the case to the EEA joint committee are placed on the grounds that it should be feared. There is no reason to interrupt the emergency, as someone put it, to make this unprecedented decision and to take this uncertainty trip. For a long time, you could list sentences of the same hurt. In case of a moment. A senator feels that those who thus speak of themselves as having solid ground would not want to be with him where the situation really is disloyal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u300	A respectable president. Because of it. A senator named here the ◯head set, so I use it to monitor the Generals when I have to get out of the Senate Hall, just so they say. You're right next door. Senator. I've watched very closely the discussion here, both while I've been present myself in the conference hall and while I've been somewhere else. I haven't listened to everything. I have to admit, I didn't wake up until 4:30 the other day to listen to what I had to say. The members of the Central Party are talking to each other until tomorrow. But, hey. A senator will not answer my question in any way. I haven't been standing here and warning you not to say no to this and send it back to the EEA. That's because I don't have any particular concern for it. I don't see any reason for it. I asked why. A senator: What is that? A senator believes that we should not yield? What is the sacrifice? What is it in the energy package that we'd be yielding by agreeing to it? If this is not clear, this package does not include a violation of a constitution, does not include a sea cable, does not include an increase in the prices of each household's rhythms, does not include the dissociation of enterprises, does not include personalisation, does not include increased markets, whatever is relevant to any human being. It does, however, involve more transparency, competitive surveillance, and consumer protection, but not much, much more. What will we give in there? The effects of this pack of energy are reflected in another bill that we have here and in other members of Congress. I feel so weird about it. A senator hasn't hacked out of it something terrible. And yet, actually, I don't think it's weird, because there's nothing terrible in there. We're not giving anything up. But, hey. Congress members always start to talk about how we'd approve of some ideologies or start talking about the fourth energy package or what the first and second energy package did. All right. Nice. Understand everything. But we're here to discuss the third energy package. What is it that we give in accordance with what we do. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u301	Mr. President. So I'm trying to lay the bottom line on my concerns, it's the future energy market. I don't think I can sit up any better than that. That is the core of my concern, the future development of energy markets. While the sponsors of the package or the council resolution were still in the talks, I asked some of the main effects from the introduction of the package to fix the sea cable. The senator's answer was, probably from talking points, in every case, the same, that there was no effect except... Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vice President - State Department, because he shakes his head. There was talk of transparency and consumer protection and so forth, but there was no talk of energy market policy and control. That's where my worries are. Because we have little in mind if we have any future control over whether a cable will be placed here or not if we lose the fastest energy market control and fully secure after the sea cable has been laid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u302	A respectable president. We will discuss the so - called third energy package, and I would like to bring up the issues of the matter that may not have received much attention in a Senate hall, even though they should have received a little more. It has to do with a new constitution, and I mean a new constitution based on a bill of administration and later documents. It seems that this particular matter has been given a lot of attention to a number of things that are not to be found in it itself. People have been concerned that they may violate a constitution, include a sea cable, or increase the likelihood of it, or include an increase in the value or dissociation of enterprises or privateisation or increased market coverage. As far as I can see, and I'm getting close to it just honest and with an open mind to all my views, there's none of this right, nothing. And more importantly, I think that is very obvious from reading the facts, the facts of the matter. I just want to throw the other one out. It's not that I alone have access to some holy truth. It's about the facts that everyone has. There are facts in this world. We all agree that we are in this room. That's a fact. It's not an opinion, not an attitude. This does not depend on our view of the matter. It's just the way it is, and we all know it and we don't have to argue about it. There are these things that concern this matter, what is written in the energy package itself. But I'm not going to go into it until maybe at the end of this talk, if I have time to do so. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there are aspects of this that have been controversial and that I don't think that would be a reason for such a great discussion if we had already followed the national agreement at the U.S. National Convention on 20 October 2012 and put on the basis of a bill of administrations and later documents. Many may reason: Yes, of course, there is a national law that is important in this regard. And that's right, it's relevant in this context. But there is another law, which in my opinion is very misunderstood, not just by people who observe but by most people, and that is an exhilaration. During the 2013 telecommunication work, when representatives of the classes tried to get together about four changes in the constitution, they included the original proposal for the office of authority. It is a sensitive subject that people naturally have conflicting views. It was not included in the closing pack because of opposition from some classes in it, and it was perfectly fine. However, in the discussion it is often assumed that there is an automatic expansion of documents in a constitution to give power to foreign institutions. It's not. It all depends on the procedure. Although there is no exponent in the constitution today, there is no room for authority and it is carried out. Well, we are in NATO, we are in the EEA, we are in the United Nations, and we have given power. The question is always theoretical, from various dignitaries and superior jurists, about how far we can go. This is a business here because in this matter, we get an opinion like that. Skúli Magnússon or those who have been mentioned more often than most other scholars ever do, I think. But they do not give us a clear line. These scholars disagree on certain points. In fact, we at the Council have very little guidance on exactly where this line is. We always need to evaluate this thoughtfully and ask ourselves, " What expert is there? ' This is a vague, respectable president. This does not mean that we must give up power, we may, and we do. It will resist a constitution, in the opinion of these jurists. But nowhere is the line clear. And that is why we need extenuating regulations. It is not to expand authority to hand over power but to explain it, so that there is some line, some boundaries that we can set as complete. Then we do not always have to be fighting in a council hall or in committees or discussing whether there is anything closer to being a violation of the Constitution or away from being a violation of the law. The line may not ever be completely clear, but it may be much clearer than it is now. This is as clear as the Constitution of Britain, which is not clear at all. To be honest, it reminds me a little bit of a little bit of a guide, which depends a lot on what the other and this scholar says, and then it just depends on what scholar you believe in how to interpret the law. It's a bad situation in terms of what is supposed to be an anchor for our Congress, which is, of course, putting laws and agreements with foreign countries if we count them according to our interests and, of course, a constitution. It so happens that in the bill of administration and later documents there are expeditors, and there are limitations on sales. Of course, it's all based on the same law as it's been to a people except what such a law, if we put it, would have at least Democracy and legal clarity. Today, a person cannot say that it is a very democratic commission that scholars, with all due respect to them, learned some of the main lines that are in accordance with a constitution that is completely silent on the subject. It's not a democratic, respectable president. This is not beneficial, and it does not help us in our congregational duties. That's why I'd like to say that this case was defended by a procedure in the Constitution. Not to make it easier, but to make it clearer what we are talking about when we speak of authority. There is another law that I mentioned earlier in this regard, and that is a national law. A matter of Congress has now taken place since then. Councilman of the city of Reykjavík, South Inga Sæland. That case includes the advice of a national law on the approval of the third energy package. Now I'm going to say right away that I'm totally indiscriminate to have a national agreement on the matter. But to me, it is a key factor when it comes to the national law that they are to promote the nation and the legislature of the public, the citizen, the voter, not ours here. Over the years, I have often criticized it that when politicians suddenly decide, it's a matter of the heart, I'm going to suggest that this case be paid by the U.S. I don't think it's democratic. And by the time I remember, without comparing anyone to anyone, very bad politicians have suggested such things when it suits them, when they think they are on their side, when they consider it to be a strong cause. In my opinion, the purpose of direct democracy is not to support the cause of certain politicians or to promote them in their work. This is to keep the dominion where it belongs, which is in the people itself. In other words, the principle must come from the voters themselves. I think it's important that the Constitution is an arrangement for national payment, that's clear, that's for the record what's called a national bill, that's part of a legal process, not an opportunity for politicians to respect one's will. They should not have to respect that will. The bottom line is just to stand. If the prime minister had legal authority and could make a law, and he would kindly ask the council a opinion, just so that they would say their opinion, but would not have to comply with that opinion, it would be a mistake. You wouldn't call it democracy, would you? Therefore, I don't feel that it's really a democracy to keep the advice of a national law paying on the initiative of politicians. I just don't think it's democratic. What's democratic is to keep binding national fees to voters and to do it is to the bill of the Constitution and the secondary documents. The bill of the Council of Government says that 10% of voters may object to a case agreed by the General and that will go to binding national law, and the result is only being passed. It's part of the legislature in that package. It's not a question of whether politicians will fulfill any promises and all that, all the fine jazz. It's just part of the legislature like it's supposed to be. It is power to the cities. It is power. It is, in fact, democracy. It is beautiful. It has a minimum of 10%. Today, there is an accounting record for about 250,000 people, plus/minus any thousand, so there would be 25,000 people, or it would be necessary to protest a bill or a assembly case approved by the General for a national agreement. The number of signatures has not yet been submitted. The last number I heard was 13,400 and something from the group Our Power. On the other hand, there are, however, certain examples in the bill of administration and the secondary documents of what was not available in national pay. These include e.g. budgets and so on, cases involving civil rights and cases to enforce national commitments. I don't realize yet, I have to admit, whether this case is that way. I'm not sure. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure I can be sure until we have 25,000 signatures, and we can begin to discuss it specifically. [[The president calls.]] There is a premise. But when we are going to use democracy, it must be clear, predetermined, and must be out of the hands of our politicians and in the hands of the common people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a direct democracy. And it's in the bill of administration and later documents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u303	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u304	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The fine talk of the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson He came into the past what was written in the energy package itself, in contrast with, and there have been many talks on it, and most of them are very narrow looking at the text. I would like to discuss only the internal market and types of the European Union, which are subject mainly to Marketing and competitive factors and equal bioavailability and market development in electrical and geological exchanges. In a paper with the Parliament's odor proposal, the third energy directive further contributes to an active power market by ensuring the separation of ownership of market transport and electrical monitoring through various measures and retaining its independence. It's a very open law. How would it be proper to interpret such a declaration? I can't understand it any other than that if there's to be an active market, then the next thing it is certain is that a postpartum department would be considered a monopoly, such as, e.g. in the case of field activation. Under Regulation 713/2009, includingUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The Member States shall work closely together to remove business barriers through electrical energy and natural gas across borders in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. The evaluation of the impact of a central institution revealed that independent central institution had long considered many benefits to be superior to other options. The EUHPC shall be set up at the energy market, which is ACER - ◯ to improve gaps in the legislation at the Community scene and contribute to the efficient activities of the internal markets for electricity and natural gas. The Agency shall also enable national surveillance authorities to expand their cooperation at the Community scene and participate in a mutually linked activities. Counts 'em out. A senator who is well prepared for this discussion of the future energy policy and the potential effect of a approved pack of three energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u305	A respectable president. I don't think it's too much, and I just think it's nice that there's a lot more to talk about. I don't complain about it. I think it's nice and she could be longer because of me. It is totally meaningless for me that this discussion takes all the time that it takes to convince each person, at least to the point where the individual feels that he or she has more to offer. Maybe it'll never be. That may be. For this text in connection with obstacles, it is one of the main objectives of the European Union and the EEA to prevent market obstacles, inhibitors that prevent competition or free flow of people, products, services and capitals. The four freedoms at the EEA Convention. It is the goal, and it is positive. That's good. There should not be any interference on the part of the government with free business, whether it has energy or something else. What I suspect can cause people to fear a bit of this is the connection with a cable. It's really the only subject I see that could explain opposition to removing the barriers of this product, energy. However, the third energy package does not specify anything that forces us or encourages us to have a sea cable or cable. Rather, it is assumed that certain protocols about existing connections are needed to ensure consumer protection, transparency, and competitive surveillance, all of which are positive and good. I have a feeling there's some misunderstanding going on in the discussion with this concept, obstacles. This is not to say there is no sea cable, it is not an obstacle in the sense of the third energy package. This is not one of the facts I meant, just to be said. Not only are there facts in the third energy package, but there are also some things that need to be interpreted. I was just complaining about this earlier because I often think people come in a pit and say something that's wrong with the facts and say something that's not found in the energy package. Like, for example. that he will become the possession of resources. It is a fact that it is not. [[The president calls.]] It's just a question of whether people read it or not. [[The president calls.]] It's about what it's like. A senator mentioned that I feel that it is all right to discuss. [[The president calls.]] Then, too, the explanation is: Obstacles do not involve a sea cable, obstacles made by governments to limit products and services in an inexhaustible way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u306	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u307	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In view of the lack of obstacles, what obstacles may arise? Perhaps I'll make it a subject in a talk later tonight that I'm going to have, which is about a report on a series four energy pack, which is a direct consequence and a natural continuation of what we're doing here. It contains, for example, discussed access to electrical transport systems. It is obvious that people producing electricity may demand to connect to a transport system, even if the transport capacity is not available. It would then take the State to build a transport system to further the need for energy to be publicized. This will affect us Icelanders, because it's what we are making. Has a what? A senator does not worry that we are not far enough in the debate about the future energy policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u308	A respectable president. I respect a trained president's complaint. I just feel like we need more time to talk about this. I have to say right now. [[Up front.]] I can't say I'm particularly worried about that. I just think it's a little different. We'll just have to keep discussing it as long as we need, energy status, now and later. I have to admit, I haven't checked the fourth energy package. He's not here to discuss it. But I'm totally open to all the views in it. In fact, it's a matter of interest to me because I find energy really interesting following the study of this particular subject. On the other hand, I don't believe that, on this notice, the fourth energy package, rather than the rest, would the government build some structure or infrastructure. I don't know that it happened, and I don't believe it can be within the authority of the EEA or the EU. I feel that such a decision must always be made by the local authorities, in this case of the Generals for European sea cables. [[The president calls.]] I haven't seen any evidence against my interpretation yet. [[The president calls.]] But I'm open to the discussion, and I'm looking forward to discussing the fourth energy package whenever it's needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u309	The night is enough, the ghost said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u310	V.E.G. President. It's an interesting discussion, and thank you very much. A senator's great deal for the speech, which handled a lot of things. But what I specifically took into account was the Constitution of the Council of Government. What I'm most concerned about is: In what way is the proposal of governance different from the proposal that now lies in government consultations where the Constitution of environmental protection is being considered? What's the difference? It deals with resources and sources. There are so - called new contracts. I wonder, then, in this regard whether or not. A senator has taken a look at this and would simply consider the suggestion that lies inside a problem and just where it will lead us, whether this is something we need to look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u311	A respectable president. In fact, I'm not aware of the terms of the government's consultation, but it's certainly the resource regulations and the environmental directives. In fact, there's another law that I think we should discuss with this case because I think it would be a law, no matter what distribution has taken place, the bill of administration, the secondary documents, or the things in the confidentiality, the worries of people, which I don't think are valid. I always feel better that people don't have to worry about something. In other words, I feel very important that we have the resource directive in a constitution. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna last long enough to go through the details of the resource policy as it is on a cross-check and what it is like in a bill of governance and secondary documents. It is in its nature a rather broad point and requires us to understand terms such as national property and to go on special matters and the like as well as whatever the objective of this article is, which is to ensure that resources will be used in national property, and for example. not to form a permanent possession right through some tradition or some sort of indirect possession rights. But there is a lot of discussion. Actually, we'll have a meeting with Pirates soon, and I don't remember the exact date right now, but we'll have a meeting where I'm going to introduce this to my party members, and we'll have a discussion about it. I can't get any precision or any details into the resource directive or the difference between these suggestions. But let me say this: Everyone agrees that there should be a provision for national possession of resources in a constitution. I don't know of any group against it. It is a matter of less experience than any other in terms of remuneration, how it should be handled, and how it should be expressed in the main content of the law, as well as in a report. [[The president calls.]] It's time, Mr. Honorable President, but thank you very much. A senator's question is because it is good and important and relevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u312	V.E.G. President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. You see, it's a little fun to think about this, and I know why. A senator is interested in these matters and how you break the lyrics. I think he's pretty sharp about finding some things in a text. There was this coverage in the morning paper the other day where the words: '-EECs call for the export of the colony rights.' It refers to this constitution in the confidential talk and therefore to wonder. They report that such payers can, in fact, say: Adoption agreements, referred to recent government contracts on water sources. I'm wondering if it can just be right about the EEA Convention, whether or not we're opening up that there will be allowed to be put into a constitution like this. [[The president calls.]] I hope a senator understands me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u313	A respectable president. I have to admit that I don't fully understand the relationship between the EEA and the resource-retrieving currency. I've been looking at these two things, maybe at a bit different, and I haven't put them in context, but I honestly know I don't quite know what the EEA deal should have to say about it. I don't know why he would. I don't know why the EEA or the EU would be interested in that. I don't quite figure it out, because the EU isn't some company that wants to make as much money as possible. It's an international agency composed of many countries who are trying to agree on some rules to pursue some common values in order for these 500 million people to market plus function for the best. It is not simply a matter of making some amount of money and taking money from some nation. I don't quite see it that way. However, in terms of receipts discussed with the resource directive, it is not shut down that the natural currency of any resource may be low or even absent, depending on the nature of the resource and how to use it. [[The president calls.]] But I don't see the complete connection with the EEA, I have to admit, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u314	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. Now these alleged warnings, which we skeptics concerning the induction of this package have been called, some of them are designed to form, some of them, the changes in electricity laws that turn to the Power Institute on the other hand, and the fixation of the sea cable, so we take the two most critical points out of the future law. Now we've got a what? A senator worked on programming for a long time. I don't know much about that, but I'm told that it's important that things happen in the right order in that business. Isn't that an option? [[Up front.]] Then I'd like to ask. Council member: Now, this resolution of the approved foreign minister within the day may be published in order to ensure that all aspects of the Regulation will have become active, but the adjustment is incomplete. What does it look like? A senator's opinion that things are done this way in a slightly wrong order, confident that the changes will be done, just because people have made a promise? Because it is, of course, so that the majority of the members of the Parliament that are now referred to will be days on earth. I think it's obvious, considering the vast number in there. I'm pretty sure the President doesn't even shake his head when I say so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u315	The President is just thinking about the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u316	A respectable president. In programming, there is usually not some single order of time needed. Things can happen in different ways, depending on what people are doing at one time. I feel the same way about this. If I'm going to be honest with you, I'm not entirely sure that the illustration applies. I don't quite see this point that it's not going to happen in the right order. The reserve is not intended for EEA to find out whether or not there are laws in force here. It's just that these laws don't apply in Iceland while nobody's the sea cable, because they're regulations that only apply to the conditions where the cable has already come. On the other hand, scholars believe that there may be a legal doubt about these authoritys that go to the EEA, according to 7,559. par. Regulation No. 713/2009 Now is the time to keep it in place after all this discussion that not all scholars feel that way. It's a bit so-called conservative scholars, and I don't agree with them. I don't think the officers need to be, because I don't consider this to be a problem in the constitution, because I think the structure of power is clearly defined and in a limited field, as it is called in the academic language. I even think it's very clear, and I could take into account exactly which points are in paragraph 8. The Regulation I disagree with. scholars on which these factors are defined, i.e. whether the authority is clear and in a specific area. The legal evidence for the answers, however, is that even if the articles do not operate in Iceland without a cable, we should still have the legislation in Iceland according to a constitution, even if it is not tested. It's more like this - what should I say? As a programmer, you'd say: certain aesthetics. You want to keep things clean. And the warnings are for that. They're for Iceland. [[The president calls.]] That's why this is called to Iceland's home bridge, or so on, because it has nothing to do with how the EEA feels about it. It's about whether the law we set is in harmony with the constitution. [[The president calls.]] And today it is undisputed among scholars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u317	A respectable president. That's what I think. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn of the Constitution is undisputed in this case, taking into account that the governing problem is being delayed by a large number of eyewitnesses of scholars, Árni Friðrik Hirst and the Friðum Arnurni Hearst. I can't figure out what it's like. A senator can tear these two apart. Of course, the administrative problem is still there, even though it is postponed, as it was some time ago that the so - called payer until seven years ago did not pass out the requirements but only the time began to pass. So I don't know what's going on. A senator agrees that the administrative qualifications are fully solved by this process at the same time that these scholars specifically say that the problem is just being delayed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u318	A respectable president. If there was a plan now or the Generals agreed to lay a cable, I would agree. Senator. But it isn't. So when we make the statement "delay," in this context, we are saying that the Constitutional issue is not relevant until it is decided to place a sea cable, which is at least for a time to come. I hope it will never be, at this time. Let's see what 20 years of climate change has to say, actually. But there is no decision or plan to lay a cable. That's why I don't see that there's anything wrong there. What's wrong with you? A senator assumes that a sea cable is being laid, that it has been decided. But what I do think is that this question is, if there's a suggestion here for a sea cable discussion, which should be difficult for all these terrible problems, promotions, and all that opposers of this case are so worried about, it's going to be difficult. [[The president calls.]] I would have thought it would only calm down. Councilmen to know that this case is difficult to fix and thus difficult to deal with. Congress officials are the most concerned of all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u319	A respectable president. We're discussing a pack of three energy. What may be the most surprising thing in this discussion is which government is in control of these packages. There are three administrative groups, and none of them have their policies to enter the EU, but this third energy package is still being run through. It's also strange that there's trying to make us swallow whole chicken in one bite. Usually if we're eating someone, e.g. Child, we'll cut it down in a little bit. That's what's done now. But what I'm saying is, first a package came one, then a pack came two, then a pack of three, and then a pack of four and five, and I don't know how many bites this would be. But it should be small bites, and they should come at equal intervals. What may be the strangest thing about this is the third bite. He must have been a very tough man, just a total persistence that can't be chewed because it's been over nine years and they obviously can't chew through it, so they're just going to swallow it. It can be dangerous because a large bite can stand in you, We're talking about a collection of EU types affecting the internal market for electricity and gas within the EU. We're talking about things in the EU, parts of the European Union's internal market. And it is not acceptable that we outside the EU and who do not want to be part of the EU are allowed to swallow these EU types without the authority of the nation. That is why it would be only natural for us to have a national law on this. Of course, it is never on the table because it is known that the people do not want it. I began to take a good look at the situation when I received this proposal for evangelism. This is given into eight joints. The first four are the Commission regulations of the Council of Europe and then there are two directives. Then comes the Commission decision. I started looking at all this stuff. I saw 93/2017 and 713/2009, they were endless regulations. I began to look, and that was always more and more. I thought it would be fun to count how many EU regulations, regulations and decisions there are in this brochure. But I wasn't on page. 3 or 4 when I just said, like the song about Rogers Rogers: stop counting, it's me. I just stopped counting, it's EEA, it's forever. It's an amazing number of regulations and arrangements that are there. Then there's the strangest thing I've ever had about the feeling here at the council, when you see all these EEA regulations and orders and what it's called, how little we have to say about this. It seems to be an assembly line job. It all seems to have been decided, digested, chewed into us, and we should just swallow it and stamp it out. What I think might be the most strange thing about this is that we here at the council are just to take anything for granted. Now we're labeling it, it's just over. But I think we should just go through this and send back if we don't like it and make a new deal. It's supposed to be our right here at the council because we're the legal authority. We should have the right to send this back to the Fathers if we don't like it. Then we try to negotiate, and since this is a contract, it should be very easy for the European Union to accept it. Aren't they democratic? [[Up front.]] Maybe that's hard to say. I haven't thought so until now, but you might try. There's nothing to say, I have a feeling that even if we were to send this package back, we wouldn't be kicked out of the EEA community. I don't think there's much danger of that. But at least we could at least. Give us a better time to figure out what's going on and how we can guarantee that our energy, whether it is electricity, hydropower, or whatever it is, is not the market, is not so markety that it can be plundered from the nation. Sadly, though, this seems to be the case because there seems to be a huge attack on the electricity companies and foreign funds in advance. When you look at all these EU regulations, instructions and decisions, you can see, and I was wondering about it back there, someone who swallows everything and then puts me in the mind of a black hole. It's probably a semi-cool of the EU that swallows everything. There seems to be no light in it, and as a result, it's called "the same." It's a black hole that swallows everything and wants to own everything. Looks like they're heading toward it, they want to own and control the energy of all those within the EU and the EEA territory. That seems to be the policy. It was coming up in the news that they're starting to fear this in France - and weren't there five or six countries that are getting some sort of complaint from the FDA, ESA? I've kind of got an EEA conscience bite. I've only been here for over a year. They're just a few of the EU regulations and orders that have gone through and you got the feeling that somehow, you know, it's just something you should be stamping, it's all been negotiated. But then I came to realize that these contracts missed us here at the council. There were only others who wrote this into us. We need to realize that this is a total energy package. It's all underneath. Maybe not in this power package, but it's all gonna be under control. As I said before, it has been slaughtered on a piece of small pieces into us and apparently should continue to do so. I've often wondered how the guys who built up the system, the power system, the heating system, the water system, would take it if they knew what was going on, how they'd watch it today. They fought for this, with all the work that went into it, and then we're just going to give authority to the European Union over what very zealous men built and established. We're going to do it gradually, and no one will realize it until we're in. We're in the EU, we've got everything, they've got it. Consider what this proposal says on page 18. 3. There you will find a section on the possible fixation of an electrical cord: ... at the end, there is an explanation for the proposed adjustment and possible effects in the country. The proposal will include 16 electronic documents with the key references to this publication.◯ We would be extremely naiv, as can be said, or not suitable, if we really believed that a sea cable should not be laid, that a sea cable would not be laid. It tells itself that a cable will be laid if we don't watch it and stop it. It goes on to say that if this cord is laid, we've lost control of the energy. It also states, by permission of the President: ▪ All the three EFTA countries within the EEA made a controlled decision. Both Norway and Liechtenstein have already lifted controlled warnings on their part. The decision of the joint EEA does not go into effect until all EFTA countries in the EEA have lifted the warning. It was kind of sad to listen to the man who came to Castlight, the former judge of the EFTA Court, to protect this energy package when he said we were just attachment to Norway and should have no opinions. We fled Norway, and we are independent, and we are to have independent opinions no matter what the Norwegians may or may not want. Then there is something very interesting in this pack of energy, and that is what is shown on page 6. 16th It says, by permission of the president: In the EEA contract, Iceland was previously defined as a small and isolated electrical system in the sense of the directive. It was possible for countries that are classified as such to apply for annuity of the directive's specific requirements. Iceland's electrical network is no longer defined as low and isolated, in the sense of Directive 2009/72/EC, since electricity production here is substantially higher than that reference. But what may be the most significant of all is in section 6.6. The Council's Directive No. 2009/73, of July 13, 2009, with permission of President: The 2009/73/EC directive replaces Directive 2003/55/EC of the common rules for the internal market of natural gas. The directive establishes rules for the systems and activities of the natural gas industry, access to markets, conditions, and transport systems. The aim of the directive is to explain the rules for a common internal market with natural gas. With Decisions made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017, Iceland is given an exception from this directive, where this country does not have a gas market. So there will be no further discussion on this type. No gas market in Iceland? Yeah, I guess there's a gas market in Iceland, or gas, made and sold, and gas burned because we don't use it, burned on a large scale. I can't remember how many record cars could drive here in the capital area with a gas that's being burned needlestly, which is not new. But this directive also applies to the electricity. We are not connected to Europe today by electricity, which would also have meant electricity, completely uncompromising. And it's not just there, it's repeated in sections 5.7 and 5.8. They're giving us an exception from the gas. It's kind of weird that we haven't had that kind of parole. That's why we should just send it back, right back, and demand that we get an extra charge for the electricity. Case over. Then we don't have to argue about this anymore. But I guess something worse would happen with the fourth package, but we just have to take it. By permission of the president also says: There is no basis for any cross-border infrastructure in Iceland that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including the Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 to establish the energy market Cooperative Ministry, is not relevant and is therefore not relevant for the national community. If this proposal is agreed, Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced in Icelandic correctly but under legal notice that the infrastructure that makes it possible to import electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets will not be built or estimated unless the exception of a review of the law on the basis of the Regulation and will bring about its cross-border connections laws until the revision is completed. What a long way to go. I'm afraid this is not a fact. It's just that it has to be said, as it is, that I don't trust that there will be no risk of being laid a cable if we agree to it. I don't think it's gonna be the next step because I've once been to Brussels, and I went there in order to attend a debate about poverty. At this conference, people from all countries throughout Europe were decided to go and protest in front of the EU. We who were there for Iceland were quite ready to do that. But then the dramatic conclusion was that protesting in front of the EU is forbidden and must be applied for permission to do so. It would take a few weeks, if that were the case. We could not accept it, so we thought it was a good cause, and we decided to put it to the test and go along and protest. But there was only one third who dared. The others told us that it was very likely that we would be attacked by a police officer or something worse. But that was not the case. It showed a black man that you shouldn't be afraid to fight for what you think is a good cause. That is why I say we must fight for this agreement to be sent to the Father's house, that it will be searched there, and then we will be given a release, just as we have received the gas. Then we have to take a good look at the fourth energy package, 5th, I don't know what's gonna happen, 6th. As far as I'm concerned, the heat power will be next, the water. What else can you include? The wind power. We're supposed to watch out for this swamp that the EEA draws us into. We're supposed to stop taking orders quiet and quiet. We're here to protest. The Congress is to go through things and send them back and try a new deal if we don't like what's being offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u320	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is very, very nice to review. He began to consider in his speech those who seek our energy, and we have seen quite a lot of news in the past that business has wanted to set up windmills in Iceland. In fact, there is a company owned by Norwegian companies, for example, and infested. Such companies, owned by the Norwegian State or by a community, may not be going into this investment unless they give in advance that they earn some money. And what I'm asking is, first of all, why is this interest in the Norwegians? And I wonder what we can do in this, and I want to think about one example: If energy produced in Iceland, e.g. A Norwegian wind maker, installs wind power production here, and wants to sell energy to Germany through a cable it costs and parks, can he do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u321	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter for the inquiry. I just have to say, I hope not, really, that this connection can happen. But I'm afraid it would be possible. And there's another thing that scares me, but it's this anticipated wind - power production on the West. It's kind of in the eagle's lay zone. For my part, I'm saying that a giant wind-muffled electricity product in this area is not what I think. I don't really see the horror of it because we know it's such a huge structure and bird life is a very dangerous thing to do. I think it would be, for this one bird, our eagle, reason to make a warning of this, and do not do this. I went and looked at the windmill on top of the Hac, and it's a hell of a piece of construction, much bigger than you realize. I've seen things like this abroad, it's not beautiful, it's not expensive. I don't know what to say about this, but I'm afraid if this is going to be installed on a large scale here on the land and especially where there's a lot of bird life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u322	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for that answer. You see, it's not just foreign people who are interested in setting up these so - called windmill gardens. There are also Icelandic people who are pretty awesome in this regard. Clearly, wise investors do not necessarily place such large sums on a project if they do not make money. So, my second degree: What rules will apply to the energy store? Is it European rules after we have introduced or become a national rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u323	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. All I have to say is that considering what we know now, it's the rules from the EU that would be valid. If we contemplate electrical energy, what happens if we associate with Europe? This is exactly what happened elsewhere. Electrical prices to domestics in Iceland will probably double or more. I only know from experience, e.g. in Denmark, people are aware that energy savings is built into the system. That's why they have energy - sparing bulbs and stuff. You buy energy - sparing bulbs, predators, that are to be tolerated and turned off five thousand times, but they are usually ruined after a few times. It's an incomprehensible phenomenon that we need to swallow it with our electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u324	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for a fine speech. I missed a little bit of it, but what? A senator came on, in his later answer to what. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Riverdot, the concern that many have of developing domestic prices after a connection has been made to foreign markets, regardless of the time it will be. It's clear to me. A senator counted nothing more than a significant rise after a connection was established. First thing. paritaprevir The Kristinsson Ingi has now, although there is no other place in which there is no one else in the world, with the interests of disability and their narrowness especially concerned, how do the senator feel about the relative increase in the cost of those groups, which may least have, compared to those with a small table?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u325	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, it has to be said just as it is to say that it would be a serious blow for those who are remembered in this country if a connection was to occur, because all the increases, how small, are too great for this group. We must also realize that this group is always waiting. He does not receive legal increases for others, and it has already been declared here at the council that this group will not receive the biographer contract. This group will not receive their biographer contract on January 1, next year, and will not be restored. He'll get someone in the account, as usual. That's why it's very difficult for me to swallow, because at the same time, we have this clean energy that we have. We are not connected to Europe, and we can use this energy and should use it for us. We're supposed to be encouraging, for example. Farmers all over the country to go into breeding, greenhouses, some breeding. We are to use this energy to produce pure food for us. We are to make sure that those who want to. We have drive for young people who want to start farming. There's more to it than that. We know that it is so difficult for these individuals to survive just the sheep. That is why we should use this energy to create the future work that produces pure food and other products in the most practical way so that we will be just competitive and able to begin selling abroad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u326	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. With the same hurt, I'd like to be curious about it. A senator to see if at any point in the future there will be an enthusiast: Does it matter what the senator's position regarding the holding of energy companies within the country at that time? Then the question is, "What difference does it make? " A member of the council whether the holding will be comparable to today, which is between 80 and 90% on the front of the state or public bodies, rural communities, and so along the streets, will, of course, boast land activation, and, on the other hand, the stage which could easily be drawn up, that, in time, the improvement of the sea cable will be in some companies and the government property will be reduced? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u327	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It tells itself that if we're connected with an electric cable in Europe, our energy market has left the nation, it's just a free market, just like with each other's products. It clearly states that electricity is like other products on the market. It's just that the market law applies. And what may terrify you most is this directive, which is now about to be issued in a power market. If everything needs to go to an invitation, and the one who offers the highest market, who will pay for it? Of course, the public, with a higher and higher price. That's what it says. It's just gonna be a jungle. [[The president calls.]] It's gonna be a panic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u328	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the speech, she was interesting. He was present in his speech to the originators of the electrical power system, i.e. Our ancestors, and many of them are still alive who took steps to build nuclear power in order to feed an Icelandic home and give constant electricity to attract both domestic and foreign investments, to create good jobs, permanently paid. That was the purpose and purpose of the initiative and the harnessing of the fallen waters. It may now be that something has changed over the course of time with purpose and goals, and it certainly is, but in the foundation it seems that it would be the majority of the public's wish to continue this, that this will be primarily for the benefit of the Iceland and Icelandic nation and the companies who choose to work here, the legislation in the European Economic Areas that prefer to serve in Iceland. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to what he believes to be the choice of this harsh position by the minister of state and the executives in general, as I allow myself to use the word to put this case through in this way when there is any other way, i.e. Another way that would eliminate this legal uncertainty. All involved seem to agree on the outcome, both the General, the Management Board, those opposed to the energy package and the EEA and the European Union. There's been a statement that there's nothing to stop Iceland from bringing in these regulations or doing it in advance. Why do we not take the legal route?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u329	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I just have to say right now, I don't understand. This is really incomprehensible in view of the fact that none of the government groups want to enter the EU. That's why it's completely incomprehensible. Why is this to be forced through? Then I ask: They don't want to enter the EU for elections, but are they ready to swallow from the EU to the other end? Back to the next election and say: No, no, we don't want the EU, but we're quite ready to give it energy and we're ready to let go of everything that is about our national resources. Our main nation's red is the hydropower, the electricity. I got the feeling that this government was running out into some EU-thousandming swamp and just going to spade there and be there. It's completely incomprehensible to me that we're not calling any alarm bells, that we're not asking ourselves: "When are we going to swallow endless EU regulations and regulations without doing anything that we don't do or that we're not going to do? Are we just gonna say, "Okay, we'll just take this next time? We'll accept this package, then we'll just take the fourth package discussion, chew it for a year, and then we'll cook it up, and then we'll just take the next. [[Up front.]] Eventually, we'll be finished with the whole EU elephant in small pieces. I ask the Generals: Is it not easier to express it simply, to enter the EU? Let's not take it any more. Let's just take him in one piece, the whole elephant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u330	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, this is a good question, would it not be more honest to declare it, contrary to the previous convictions of these classes in elections, that it may be best to take the step all the way? I can respect that viewpoint if people want to enter the European Union. It's just a different view than what I might have in person. But what I'm wondering is, I wonder if there would be something else if we were here today to form a replacement in progress and fishing, i.e. In the fishing system, if that were underneath? We received an exception by the seasideside when we made a deal about the EEA. But if there had now been a new fishing package, if we were to talk about it in some metaphor, would these same groups run just as hard that it would be done in this way? Or would they go another way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u331	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I say for my part that they would never swallow it, which is why they're incomprehensible that they're swallowing it. As I say, it's unlikely that we should be swallowing all these regulations, regulations, decisions. We are, in effect, in the European Union's swamp through the EEA, and it seems like we're going to sink in there. I can't help but think that those classes in the government should support it this way. But I understand the other groups who want to enter the EU and fight to get into the EU. I understand that they support this whole idea because they only watch it as one step into the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u332	Mr. President. Now, in part of the preceding discussion, I was absent from the duties elsewhere. But coming here and sharing in this discussion is a source of great joy. I'd like to kill on some of the things that came from that discussion where I was last week. There were some of the favorite items that were fixed in memory, perhaps the first secret of the lost warning. In itself, it could be a subject for fun television, for us to see Ólafur Darri and someone else with a flashlight looking for the alarms here and where, in every corner and a mollusk. But it's so busy right now that the alarm, for example. to this matter of Congress we're discussing here, there are two especially. That is, first of all, under the regulations that are yet to be set. Oystert, we're going to open the door to the portal and then set a rule on the draft, if he comes. The other thing that brought me great pleasure is the lack of faith among those who have discussed the energy package at the EEA Convention. It has been noted that this is not a suitable case for sending to the joint committee. I have to say to these people: If they believe in the EEA Convention, why doesn't they believe in the 102th story that specifically dictates what sort of opinion should be placed before the joint committee so that an agreement can be reached? But there was another piece of gold that fell in the discussion the other day. Here, on the deck of the Specialist Party's senator, she said, on permission of the president: ◯ Mr. President. The time has come for Icelandic political parties to step forward and identify where they stand in these matters. Now I should laugh if I wasn't dead, the old man said. Because if this fine senator had listened to the discussion as if it had been for the past few weeks, she might have found that there are almost all political parties with some clear direction in this case except the forward party. His course in these matters, as is so often the case, reminds us of a dog who follows his tail until he gets confused. Then there may come some conclusion that no one understands and that not himself. I also fondle about it in this discussion the other day that this very fine senator, with the permission of a president, said: ▪ We're a progressive but not a retreat. This tells me that this fine senator will not volunteer for the advance team again because a great deal more of his voters are opposed to this energy package. Not there, though, that I don't care if this woman offers herself again or not. But I'm pretty sure the next thing she did was that she didn't. It has been said that those who oppose this energy package are isolationists, national polygraphers, and perhaps not as well educated and as much of the good people who insist on moving on in this matter. I'm going to say, Mr. President, that I am very proud to be one of those against this energy package. I'm incredibly proud to be one of those country - famous national polygamy types, such as Ómar Ragnarsson, the son of Jónasson, the nationalist society - they're natural national polygamy if you've ever seen them, even made a full-scale cake last year. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] How far can a nation go? An organization of garden farmers. They put the tomatoes on their trays and decorate them with the Icelandic flag. They're all pecs. They're all over the place. I'm very proud to be one of these, Mr. President, very proud. It has also been claimed that we, who are opposed to these packages, are just not sharp enough; we are not entirely involved with what is happening. And then may I, Mr. President, quote Forrest Gump, saying, 'She is stupid.' I think maybe we should look to that issue for a moment. But it's taken hold of an incredible despair for those who want to nail this package through, like you say, in the last shot. They brought home a fine foreign specialist who is definitely an Iceland friend because he helped judge us in the Icesave business. But it's like this now, Mr. President, that it doesn't matter if you've won 5:0 last year -- what you're doing right now is important. Looks like this fine man was brought here to scare us. And he said, "The European Union will probably go completely mad. Wait, does that surprise anybody? No, not necessarily. I don't remember the time I've been watching politics, and it's grown very long, that in some way the European Union has shown something else when they are struggling with those who are not their followers enough. I do not remember ever showing some so - called flexibility, responding to the views of others. Not at all. The question was also presented earlier. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee said that few experts made comments to the court treatments listed here. That may be so, but there are so few experts who had a different opinion before the committee. During the second days of treatment at the Foreign Affairs Committee, there was a list of names of interested people to appear before the committee. No, it was too late. It couldn't be done. So, of course, it can be arranged so that the specializing materials being transmitted are quite practical and few. There's no problem. There is no secret that I remember that when I first arrived in politics in 2013, men were becoming or perhaps becoming aware of the effects of one of the energy packages, i.e. what was fully accepted in 2008, if I recall correctly, when the Independence Party and the United States were in charge here. It even got to be. in order that energy companies could be replaced here in production and distribution sectors. We turned back to fulfill this for the European Union as best we could and would surely have been dogs in a circus, got a treat for what we were following this package, and went far beyond what we would have had to do. This does not change, however, that now that the third energy package is looking at the light of the day, it is time to stop. We've seen it here today, in our last week's discussion, both day and night, that this case is not finished. There are still agitates, and may I say, Mr. President, who are unafraid and vague and we need to get the bottom. And speaking of experts, who not only set up a foreign legal committee but also wrote articles and carried out articles, I especially recall the same kind of person who spoke very highly to this energy package. He threw himself off the judge's robe and the scholarly asshole and got into a bullshit political bitch about it. It's not easy to do that. But that's not much academic, it's not too professional. So I think that's why, even if there's only one scholar who comes along and has doubts that this fermentation, for example. a constitution is complete, only one who believes that the element contains a power supply of previously unknown size, if it is entirely enough, e.g. for the man standing here. That's enough to say, "Let's stop." Let's take a closer look. Let's go over this. Let's think about this for a minute. Let's see if we can get those who believe in the EEA deal for belief in the 102 st. So do I. Get the courage to send this case back, make a deal with it, and then bring in this package on the grounds that we Icelanders are eligible for. And they say, "Do you think the EEA deal is some table where you can pick out?" No. We don't think so. We believe, however, that a contract is clear, it is a contract, that the EEA Treaty is an agreement, not an EU monologue, but an open contract where, in this case, people meet on an equal basis, discuss matters and find conclusions that both of us can enjoy. And that is what we need to do in this matter. It is said: This case is not suitable for sending to the Committee. I'm thinking, "Well, wait, is this case too big or important, or is it too complicated, should we take something less? ' If it were natural for the custody of the rural communities, I would have thought of a meeting in urban areas. Maybe we could send it to the joint EEA committee and check if we were going to make a deal there. This, Mr. President, is out of the question. There is no evidence that this case is not suitable for sending and testing whether the EEA is a contract, whether it is an agreement, or if it is an equal, or a single policy drive for the European Union to cross all the information it can get when it is right. This morning the News magazine published an open advertisement in which a large group of young people appeared and were, as one nice senator put it here this morning: Fear to show off his face. Good. What these fine young people had to say, in itself, I could not agree more about, i.e. To improve the nation's foreign communications, completely, and test the EEA deal. That's exactly what we want to do. But speaking of people who do not see their faces, I was here on the field on Saturday with a group of people. He was not very crowded, but they were also people who are not in daily protests on the Eastfield. These are people who are present because they are invited to do just that. They were not afraid to show their faces, of course. Unless what? Heavy at those meetings and the weight of the discussion, heavy in all the messages you have received, ahead of and after this meeting, and from this group, is so clear that people are so different. We care. We care about our constitution and how it's done. We don't care about our energy resources. And we care about our children and our grandchildren, their future. This is what makes us get together, e.g. Out in the East, maybe nothing extraordinary. But then I'm going to quote something, and I want to tell a little story. It was about 1988, probably, that one man met a night at the Nikolai Church in Leipzig with a torch and stood there silent. The next night there were two of them. Then the time came for them to be five. There were ten of them. There were 100 of them. They became 1,000, and they became 10,000. When that crowd began to gather there evening after night, the people saw that we were not allowed to stand there. This is one of the reasons the Berlin Wall collapsed. It seems that the person standing here has met one of the people involved. I told him: "It hasn't been safe. He said: "No, but it had to. What we're doing now, the speech we're holding up, it's not dangerous for us, but we have to do this. We have to take this speech. We have to step forward. It doesn't matter whether we're one or five or 10,000, but we have to do this. And it doesn't matter if there's a lot of people in other categories, more of the people sitting here who don't hear what's coming in here, who don't listen to what's going to happen out here, it doesn't matter that we're going to do it. And it doesn't matter whether people look down on us and call us all evil names or anything they think is bad names, which are the natural way of perplexing people, when the argument contradicts them, they resort to advertising politics - which is insignificant politics - and try to mark those who disagree with them. I happen to meet up the other day at a meeting of the law on this very matter, very much respected. It had already been handled as to whether it was acceptable or desirable to send this package back to the joint EEA committee. This fine man, with decades of experience as a judge and as a lawyer, said: "It was bad enough that we agreed on number one and number two. It's time to step down. Now is the time to say: " No, we're not going to this time. Now, the time has come for him to take his step, take this package, send him to the joint committee, and get a practical solution for us. We're starting to see the number four sparks. We know exactly what it's all about. During the brief time I participated in this discussion the other day, there was always something like: Well, you're always talking about a cable. I can inform you, Mr. President that I think I just didn't talk about the cable at all in this discussion. It's not about cables or cables. This is all about everything else. In the numerator said a nice lawyer the other day: ▪ The way the government is going on this case leads to legal uncertainty. The way we are suggesting is leading to political uncertainty. Oystert. Is it not our job to deal with political uncertainty? Isn't that what we do every day? But we do not have legal uncertainty, and we do not allow the people of the country to live with legal uncertainty, certainly not when such interests are involved. But political uncertainty? We've been going through political uncertainty almost every year for the whole time I remember, and it's become a hell of a time, So I say, let's have the courage to send this matter to the joint EEA committee to get a more practical result there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u333	A respectable president. I'd really like to hear a few answers. A senator. There are many things I would like to consider with a talk. A senator who asks me what. A senator may be more able to correct the misunderstanding I found in a talk. Senator. I'd like to stick to something to keep the discussion more specific. Hv. A senator said that it would be quite enough for him if one expert thought it might be contrary to a constitution. I'd like to ask you a few questions. A senator whether there is an expert, knowing that this case, as it is suggested today, is contrary to a constitution, not without them, but with them. The reason for stressing this matter with these warnings is because when I have asked other questions. Councilmen in the same category as before. A member of the Middle East has often mentioned an opinion that came from the antiquated scholars - but it was considered to be the package before this case was introduced by the chiefs. After this case was presented and the chiefs were put in, these two experts agreed, as made clear in their written review, that there was no legal question that the way here is in harmony with the constitution. So, knowing me, there is no expert who has sent a review to the Committee or talked to the committee, which is the opinion that there is any doubt that this case will pass the constitution as it is. I realize that there is more to talk than there is to talk about. You can talk about what if we put a cable later on. You can talk about putting off the problems. Yes, but it is clear that we are postponing the problem, and there is no doubt that this case is a constitution. I just reiterate the question, is it? A senator aware of one expert who believes that there is any doubt that this case will last a constitution? [[The president calls.]] I would appreciate the name of that expert, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u334	V.E.G. President. I can make you happy. A senator who has a way of communicating about this case for quite a while below because it's not exactly my style. We can continue to record this matter until the night. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator, it is now that in this recent paper, the senator testified that these two fine lawyers said that it is certain that... They now moved to some point later against the State Department, I don't know why, because they said that this in themselves might last for a constitution but would not be flawless. But there are other men, e.g. Like a nice man named Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, who has paid a great warning, and he says, for example. in an article in the Morning newspaper, with the permission of a president: Since the government's operations on the construction of electrical energy systems are determined by Congress resolution, it needs to be changed by a new list that the cables will be placed only with the approval of the Council. So he says here: ▪ It is not enough to include legal instructions during the induction of the third energy package in Icelandic rights. And then he goes on to say: At the same time, the General will agree to the third energy package and to commit Iceland to national rights to implement the national rights of the EU energy policy and to set a paragraph into the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems, which violates EU energy policy. Both initiatives in EU energy policy cannot be introduced at the same time and set a policy that violates them. Could be any more clear. Senator? I say again, our job here is very difficult for us to rely on experts in all matters. When men of the calibre and the other two, despite their warnings, make those views, we must listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u335	A respectable president. I'm gonna have to do it now. A senator is disappointed that I can't stay much longer because I have to go to my house and do family duties. But, don't worry about it. Tenth. The Southern District of McCarthy replaces me and will stay here on the beach, probably late into the night, I presume. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he will study me with the information I come across in response. A senator, a review by Eyjoil the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. I will simply do so and study it, and hopefully I'll get back a talk on this subject. I hope now that not everyone has to stay long into the night, but I certainly hope we can discuss this more. But I'd like to ask. A senator on this note only because he spoke of lost warning. It is now specified in the paper that follows the Senate resolution and the warnings as it will appear in Article 3. The regulations were sent to the professional committee last Friday. I don't know why. A senator is granted access to that version, which is very clearly identified there. I wish I had time to read it. But I'm wondering what would do for you. A senator. [[The president calls.]] Would it be enough to include the warning into the main ingredient of the proposal itself? Would that be an improvement? Because it will be in the Regulation, it has been demonstrated; it is in the letter of the synopsis. It's black in there, and we all have access to that information. [[The president calls.]] The only thing I can think of that that could get him into is putting him in the main ingredient of the council-sense proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator can suggest that change or that I do. [[The president calls.]] I think it'll do, yeah. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u336	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u337	V.E.G. President. I understand why. A senator needs a home to care for his beautiful sons. But I'll be here tomorrow too so we can keep talking about it then. What would do for me? asks why. The senator. That is, if this case was to be sent to the European Commission and through a conversation or discussion, there would be a court order from the European Union itself that has a song that says we don't have to meet this and that. That would be enough for me. But a priority based on two people is the European Union's head of energy and the highest. Secretary of State, with great respect for both of them, I don't know if this was a phone call or a chat for sandwich and soda: it's not a legitimate notice, at any rate enough for the person being here. That's the way it is. But a legal model from the European Union that, after a conversation with the committee, would work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u338	Madam President. I have no doubt that a respectable president would agree with me that it was an extremely interesting speech and a good thing to do. Finally, a senator will have the opportunity to give his first talk on this subject. I hope so. A senator and Mr. President, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, also have the opportunity to give a speech during this discussion, which has shed light on one and another at the earlier stage of the European Union's electricity induction. I don't think that's overhistoric. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson has offered what might be called the sound of merits, and things that are truly sobering so that you hardly know where to start with an inquiry to go. A senator here gave a talk that was probably amusing, illuminating, and thoughtful. One of the things that struck me and, as a matter of fact, I have already wondered about this discussion. A senator mentioned, if I understood him correctly, the group in the community and other communities that were called the vile. It is the part of the public that seems out of place to have an opinion on the course of events. I wondered, " What's the food? ' A senator of that? Why is it so important that those who feel that they know better than others believe that at least a very large part of the public, most of the public under surveys, has almost no right to have an opinion on the case, at least Is that not the right to conclude?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u339	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question. I'm very kind to meet her. Yes, I've had that feeling in this case, and it might have something to do with it, because it's being connected to this case like a Bgreit in England. It has not been tired of speaking and writing: It was just some uneducated person who voted with Bgreit, the others wanting to stay in the happiness. As I mentioned earlier, current groups have opposed this agreement. There's all the people in common who have a lot of work with their hands, bakers, gardeners, ASI, I think I forgot them in the list earlier, ASI. These are people who know that by taking the risk that we're putting power over our energy resources, they're going to get us over our heads because they're going to raise our power bill as they've done in the past despite what they've been saying. I'm waiting for one of my nice associates in the middle class, huh? paritaprevir Þiririr Þórarinsson, here bring an electrical bill of its sex cost, which doubled at just the time of switching according to a pack of two energy. These are the people who will experience the consequences of applying in the way proposed in this council arrangement. On the other hand, there are other groups that we could call academical, we could talk about government systems, we could talk about men and women who are not in direct danger of being affected by this act. But those who imagine that they will be; this will affect their lives, and will affect their terms, are those who rise up. It's the people of the country. It's the average Icelander who's both been on the ground and he's been up here on the pitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u340	Mr. President. You could ask a lot more about this particular point than why. A senator mentioned so much in his speech that I need to learn more. Hv. A senator even mentioned: Carl Baudenbacher's opinion, former judge of the EFTA Court, now an independent adviser. Baudenbacher is a man whom I have a high opinion and would call my friend, but we are not political partners. I was surprised when a member of the Independence Party arranged for that particular man to give a political opinion and, in addition, a minister of the forwardal class and even the left green. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me on that, because he mentioned this point, that if Baudenbacher's assessment is correct, i.e. That the Norwegians consider Icelanders to be some kind of cod, a nation with added money to the EEA Convention, that we should rather use the opportunity that now allows us to be held there on an equal basis? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u341	V.E.G. President. Yes, with great respect for this scholar, I felt he was missing that what would happen if we were to send this back would be the Norwegians and the European Union would be mad at us. But when we are a nation among nations, we sometimes, not just sometimes, have to make the best decisions in Iceland. We need to think mainly of Iceland, not whether the Norwegians would be at us at the next three Northern Parliaments or if there was a particular specialist or some European office manager going into contact with us. We cannot be controlled by such things. So I agree that the point of this good scholar's speech was that we, in fact, should be prepared not to offend the Norwegians and not go into action with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u342	Madam President. As an amateur for history and facts - the senator decided that he makes the best decisions in Iceland - I want to read from Article 972, which is mentioned as an opinion of a change in bill to legalize the changing of electrical law, No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, from a greater part of the employment committee. By permission of the President, it says: The bill suggests the 22nd floor. The directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2009/72/EC on the common rules for the internal market electricity will be implemented in this country. The directive contains common rules on production, transport, distribution and delivery of electricity and regulations on consumer protection. The aim of the directive is to improve and integrate a competitive nuclear market within the Community. That's why I'm writing. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. And also, when this case was laid up, the green button was on. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, then Foreign Minister, please. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, then prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u343	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for representing this case here. This is one of the ghosts that has been pulled up, which has been said to be that the people standing here now were leading men that this package would be recorded here. I'd like to give a witness to a foreign minister's speech in his own time for the case. It says the same thing, such as why. A senator spoke of, by permission of the president: However, it is stated that the European Economic Area Convention has not yet been adopted, and as such the directive is not the fundamental reason for this bill. Nevertheless, as noted in the above - mentioned report, it was right to take into account the rules of paragraph 22. The directive on the structure of the transport company. This is from the foreign minister's speech in its own time for this matter. Yes, it is true that this was a national development strategy. And I couldn't help it because the line that she is now is like a bad Christmas mess. Perhaps it is best that one - and - a - half - year - old Smokejanesi broke her off one and a half years ago, the international airport was outside for a few minutes. That's the situation on the electrical transport system in Iceland. Now it's being added. The section of the directive that was recorded there - I quote again to the minister's words - was set to improve the distribution of electricity in Iceland. He was not taken up to hand over the nation's resources to a European institution. This bill was not put out to go out against the Iceland Constitution or carry it out as far as possible. This was suggested to correct the distribution of electricity within the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u344	Madam President. Then I'm going to read again, with the permission of the President's permission: a competitive electronic market within the Union. That's why I'm writing. Senator. It was just like that. So I'm just trying to follow my tail.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u345	You're doing just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u346	Yeah. That's when I was a member of the gang. paritaprevir This document is signed by the Sæmundsson of Sólmund. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress: Why did he not warn them about the situation today? Why not? Then why didn't he? I just want to know. I want to know why the senator did not warn about the matter then. He'll come now and do it. Great. I want to know why the senator didn't tell anything then. Rather, he signed this document along with Prime Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, then foreign minister, and Prime Minister Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u347	V.E.G. President. It is refreshing to hear the attention of a candidate. In fact, he has many opinions, but that is also their way. Now I'm going to promise. One senator, and I ask him to pay attention to what I now say: Now I'm going to clean up my next talk or the afternoon, and I'm going to read all the document he's holding. I will read it from word to word, and there I will answer why this case was presented. [[I asked...]] In fact, the quote I read earlier was not from a local foreign minister - I have become now - but from a then industrial minister. [[Up front.]] But now I'm asking. A senator pauses and joins in the discussion with us. I'm glad he's here. With all the courage and courage in mind, let us just keep changing our views. [[Up front.]] That's because we were at that time... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u348	A senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u349	Well, that's hardly really the best. President. I think I'm going to have to get some 1,515 seconds to talk in this room if I get peace, because this senator has so much to do with it. He's naturally welcome in the speaker's chair, I suppose. What I'd like to say is that this was a specific factor that was actually a continuation of one of the energy packages to facilitate electricity distribution within the country. Yeah, I think it's brighter to Húsavík because of this and I'm sure it'll be soon. But I encourage the senator to follow up on the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u350	A respectable president. The talk of the third energy package in the past few weeks and months has been about many things. They've been centered on legal matters related to national sovereignty and sovereignty administration, they've been involved in changing power companies in public interest, and the plans for their private development. Then, questions about the trade of foreigners and the activation rights of those lands have been raised, and at last, whether it is appropriate for a foreign minister to call upon the opinion of a foreign specialist who has trusted in the joint European system that has been developing since the end of the war. In the background of these discussions, the big question is, Can Iceland expect to be punished by the European Union if we reject the third energy package? The minister of foreign affairs who led the EEA Convention on our behalf asserts that this agreement directly assumes that its member states can reject. The morning newspaper, by permission of the president, was an article by Sturla Böðvarsson, former senator, and minister of the Independence Party: It is inconceivable to accept the third energy package without being aware of what happens in Iceland's energy market when the cable has been laid and the energy store starts. It has no purpose for us to decide whether the cables will be laid if the energy markets are immediately taken out of our hands when sales begin through a sea cable. This question must be answered by Ministers before continuing to a longer end, it appears that land - repairing is expected to be done by a cable, as shown on the social website. It would be a natural pleasure, a respectable president, if a foreign minister were ever with us, or that some minister over his head could see why we should be with us in the discussion. What happens when a cable has been laid? Is it true or false that they will fail our business of energy, i.e. the use of the energy of fallwaters in Iceland, one of the largest resources in the United States, under the European Union's regulations? It would be great to have the highest. The minister of foreign affairs right now to answer that question. According to the MMR poll, about half of the population is opposed to the approved energy package, less than a third of which are supplied. The same study shows that opposers of the energy package are the largest groups in all political groups. Official declarations by many members of the Independence Party show that this was a strong resistance to the approved energy package, which was the head of the category. With President's permission, I'm just going to refer to him, which I've been doing before: ▪ So let us consider what we have to do on the inside market of Europe to deal with electronics that are monotonous in Iceland, Brussels. What do we have to do with talking to other EU countries electronic energy cases off the island of Iceland? Is it a direct concern of the inner market when there is no connection? Then he says: ▪ What I find so hard to understand is the interest of some senators to get under the invitation of the European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? He asks if there is any reason to go further, saying, by permission of the president: I think it is so fundamental that we define the internal market issues that we would particularly like to handle under the EEA Convention and what are issues that are not directly related to the internal market. Here we have a crystal clear example: Iceland's electricity is not internalized. In fact, the way we have talked about a pack of three is really worth our attention. I have personally felt that there is a lack of a collective assessment, that we take the sort of contract, a 25-year contract for the European Economic Area, which we have successfully been on for 25 years, and that we should test ourselves to see who the rest of our contract is, in effect, about our agreement. Why should we not follow e.g. advice? We received two counsel from the fine scholars and jurists, Stefán the son of Stefánsson, and Fridrik Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst. They offer two suggestions on how to bring us up with regard to the induction of this energy package. In fact, their speech was clearly indicated before them. The Foreign Affairs Commission said that one proposal was legally far more practical than the other. She was about to test the EEA immediately if we could ask for a complete release from this energy package. How would the EEA have dealt with this? Why should we test it when we have invented the energy package when it comes to removing the so - called administrative warnings that I'm not really going to wear? I've mentioned earlier that the strength and the amount of water they think have been introduced by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Then I ask. Why are we going that way? It's totally impossible for me to understand. It was also truly interesting that the 32rd paragraph was written. these electrical directives. The scholars'view of the State Department of State clearly made clear what this law contains. The principle is that access is ensured by transport and distribution systems and that registrations are used objectively and without discrimination. This is a direct result Skúli Magnússon's opinion, professor and jurist. What we talk about so much about here, sea cable or not sea cable, third energy package, first, one is not what matters. We're supposed to focus on what is basically the aim of the energy package input. Actually, the goal is the common internal energy market in Europe, which is no more complex than that. Why should we be moving there? Why? What are the interests? Rather, may we ask, What do we have to do there? Anything? It has often been said that the scribes said that there is no legal disagreement, that they merely know that there is no legal disagreement. I've never heard of a single jurist who is well - founded that there can be no division. I've never heard that before. That's what it says, for example. in an article in The Watchtower where the headline is: It might be appealed to an Icelandic contract violation because of the third energy package. By permission of the President: ▪ Three lawyers who did opinions on administrative statistics related to the third energy package think that the EFTA centre could be at the head of a treaties against Iceland and Iceland's commitments for the energy package will come to the EFTA Court in the future. Why does the principle here seem to be always camping until one night, a respectable president? Can we really look to the future? Can we not admit that we are on a certain road? We go further and further under the command of Brussels. That's a fact. Everyone has accepted it, including the jurists. They've all said that there is, of course, a purpose with the energy package. There is no question about it. Why is there no other way to reason about this? Why, when we know that the nation is as unconcerned as it is, do we not allow the nation to have that last word? Why not a national agreement? [[The president calls.]] There's something else I can't understand. What fears are the sponsors of the energy package if the nation is left with the last word? The same ones who are always talking about direct democracy and that the nation is to have the last word about everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u351	V.E.G. President. You see, there's a totally raggedy man. paritaprevir Inga Sæland when she says we need to look at this whole picture. I felt that she did well in her talk because we became members of this common market. You see, it's all about it. We're told we don't have to worry about cables. That can be a good measure. But if we turn the problem around and imagine that once we become part of this common internal market, the EU will view them as obliged to lay down a cable. Then I'd like to ask who. paritaprevir Sæland Howlsad how she feels about it. And another: what kind of criminal action was involved. A senator spoke of criminal action on the part of the EU, i.e. if we do not apply what is going to happen when we look at this bigger picture?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u352	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the question. When we talk about the cable and the punishments and what they mean: I have no idea. It is not even put to the test for the joint EEA committee which of us is actually in a contract we believe at least That we're in and we're supposed to work both ways. That's the most amazing thing in the situation. If we lay down, for example. A cable has been on board for many years, and we see on the website that they are always on our terms. It's just that kind of thing. And Icelandic consumers are not to be bitten. I'm just going to do this a little bit of cheating because I have time to say, " It's amazing to read 52 stories we've got on this subject, amazing to see how many people in the community really worry. That is why I say, instead of having to speculate on how we would be punished and how we would get spanked, compare with the panic propaganda we've had to face now that we're putting up with our agreement with the European Economic Area and I don't know what, I just say: How would it be once for all time to test and answer those questions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u353	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland very much so. You know, it's true that you can get lost in this discussion, and we're just starting the night, I'd like to say. Because I know why. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland is very concerned with those whose legs are in our society, I wondered that now it is shown that when we introduced a pack of energy, there was an increase in electricity prices in the region. We've heard here speeches specifically to the Southnes, if I remember correctly. This whole thing has an external command, thus raising the power bill. Then I wondered if it's not conclusive that the same thing will happen -- then the whole country simply -- when and if we accept a pack of three. In this regard, I may be thinking of those who are walking in their feet where they do not have so much to eat. All this is gonna matter. So I wonder, if it's not unique that energy prices are going to rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u354	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. No. If we're just going to watch a pack of three energy, it's not the only reason for an increase in electricity prices now. On the other hand, it is obvious that with the change that occurred when Landsnet was raised natural, despite this report from Ephla to show that there is actually a decrease in electricity prices, which is basically crazy. Because then, all of a sudden, not only do we have production, but we have a sale, and we have a distribution, we all take to ourselves. We've got a huge building. We have more directors, and they are trying to convince us that by increasing the service level and bringing a larger surface, the value has dropped. Actually, Top only contributed to one factor that was the product itself, and it had not been raised because she had not followed an index. That's how it was calculated. But this third pack of energy does not necessarily involve a sea cable. It's not until we look longer. There is only one way to go, the intervention of foreign parties into the Icelandic energy market, and that is a fact. Yes, in the end, we will sit at the same level as everyone else in the common internal energy market in Europe. I don't know if it will be in five years or ten years, but on the other hand, the journey here is clear at the high Council. That's where we're headed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u355	President. I'll start by thanking you. A senator for a fine speech. What I would like to ask the senator about the market area of energy that I felt was coming into her speech, i.e. to Iceland would be developing even more and to adopt the European market rules of electricity markets, as it might be said. The European Union has now issued a decision - and in 2016 the Icelandic government announced - that once new contracts were in force today would have to be reexamined. There'd be some kind of auction or sale at new contracts. This is based on the rules that Iceland led in 2006, I think it was, and then 2014, the rules of public shopping. These types and actions on which this EU decision is based, i.e. that electricity is just a product, is part of the EU service directive and is really part of the official purchase directive. By installing a pack of three energy -- and it's all about ACER and all of this, even though we're supposed to get some kind of an access card from something, an ocean cable, and something like that -- is different. A senator agrees with me that we are taking another step to coordinate our little Icelandic energy market with the whole EU large energy market? And there is not every reason to have some, although only small, to worry that the European Union will require that in Iceland apply exactly the same rules as those of a major European company, i.e. that they even need to divide up to increase competition? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u356	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the question. Yeah, that's right, that's exactly what we're going to face right now, just like that. Hellishe activation. When and if her commission is complete, you can only offer it out, and that is, in fact, under contract. It's actually gonna be the highest bidder who can take over. Hv. A senator now remembers the case in which the state paid Höm 3 billion in damages because it was believed that certain trades and free flows of goods were being inhibited, such as the EEA Convention. That is exactly the same today as we watch an HS Energy, which is a huge government-owned company. It's not the question of whether I think so, is it? A senator, that it's just when HD Orcs and agents put it to the test, just for EFTA, how they stand up to the deal that we have a huge nationalisation that has more than 85% of the share in the market. So I can see for the future too. That's what it's all about. You cannot overlook the experts who are, in fact, fighting against the induction of a third energy package, knowing that they are presenting not only views but, rather, facts that they present as they are sad to be so hard - eyed. Just because people here, many of them. Senators, somehow trapped in the third energy package, do not seem to be able to look a little further and look beyond the real value of the four freedoms in which the European Economic Convention has placed us. I've talked about... In the second answer, I'll bring it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u357	A respectable president. I'd like to give you some cheers. To continue with this matter, a member of the Parliament to give a second talk, as I have another question to ask. A senator for the second answer. Now a four - pack energy pack is created. We have seen news that he has already been introduced to the Norwegian government. Also, Norway has a report on a four - pack energy pack. First, I'd like to ask a senator if she remembers that a four - pack of energy was introduced in some way, or its contents presented, to a foreign committee or to another committee as a subject. A senator may be in. This report, published in Norway, says by the permission of a president, i.e. of the story: The Regulation shall advise on additional laws relevant to the cross-border trade. The objective is to ensure the principle of a well - integrated electronic market. That the electricity market is well integrated. This means that all participants in the EU common energy network must have equal access to markets. Expect those who are connected or will connect. In addition, there is a general law on transport capacity and bottle neck control. What that means, I don't know and I haven't been able to figure out. U.S.A. that the import and export of electrical energy should not be limited by national factors. I wondered if there is any reason to get more information on the four energy package before continuing on this matter here. Because if that is the case, it is still giving this ACER facility and Europe's surveillance agencies greater power to manipulate the energy market, it is a question: Do we not need to have access right now that has talked so much about in order not to become involved in having to respond to any request from the European Union that we are limiting exporting?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u358	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. No, I haven't seen or heard anything since I've been sitting on a panel on a pack of energy four, although I know he's been on a table with some member of the community for inspection. However, I've pointed out that it has established experts, such as a financial committee, I remember, and talked about that the state was actually forbidden by the EEA Convention to block the flow of goods. The energy is defined as a warning, but it is said: "Yes, but there are so many other rules that they need to look into, and the state governs it itself and can inhibit environmental assessments and licenses to present the sea cable and all kinds of information that are drawn out. But the fact is, it will be put to the test. That's for damn sure. Energy is a warning, we're in the EEA Convention and we're always going farther and farther into the market. It's as simple as that. So I think we're actually breaking, as I'm saying, the European Economic Convention, by trying to block this product from the market. So it is not the question of whether it will be put to the test, and there will always be courts with the last word. No jurists here at home or anything. I just want to reiterate it because I have an opportunity and a bit of a hint that no lawyer has anything to do with it anywhere, as has often been said, that it is above all doubt. It is never that lawyers and professors of law, jurists have a sweeping claim on such things. This is why there are courts. To draw conclusions on legal matters that may arise. Power package four is on its way, yes, not a question. No, I've never seen him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u359	Madam President. There's one side of this energy package that attracts our foreign policy in a slightly wider sense that I'm willing to discuss about here. It has been a little debate about what would happen if a person were to go on a course that appeared to be the main proposal of the Friursky Friðriksson of Hirst and Stefánsson Quanthos, to consult on the basis of a recommendation in the EEA Convention itself for reconciliation in the field of the joint EEA, on the elements of this energy package most dangerously considered from the perspective of the Constitution and the sovereignty of the nation's energy resources. There's been a bit of a hint, at least. Of some, to form the highest. Secretary of State, that at that time, the EEA itself was in danger. Some have gone so far as to suggest it, not strongly, that those members who follow this way, which you seem to be the main proposal of double civilizations in their important and thorough legal recognition, are really as in a subtle way to apply themselves to the absence of this cooperation of the Icelanders. Most of the people who have spoken this way and have spoken against the approved Parliamentary decision of the Foreign Minister were here at the last council asking for a report to the Foreign Minister on the benefits and shortcomings of Iceland's Member States to the European Economic Area Convention. The person standing here is the 1st manifester of the proposal, and among its members are members of more groups than members of the Central Party, these are members of the Independence Party and the Gang of the People. I believe these people have shown by the proposal that they are interested in the European Economic Area Convention, as it turns on us best. A fundamental point of view is that there must be a new or recent report on the EEA as a basis for our participation in this important international cooperation and policy development in this area. This request was made for the Norwegian role model, and it is well - known that the Norwegians worked hard to get a thorough report for the same purpose in that country. When it is claimed here that the Icelanders do not agree without a complaint, whatever is laid before them, such as making Regulation No. 713 and other factors that put the team at risk can hardly be allowed to be strengthened in the eyes of the Icelanders as a positive view of this cooperation. [[The president calls.]] I'll let me warn you that men are acting in such a way during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u360	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. The EEA deal has been pretty important to us for 25 years or so. He certainly has brought us, I would say, better legislation in many areas. It should be kept in mind, though, that if we do, we can pick up and copy if we want to, if that's what we think it is. And, of course, what the EEA has done is lay down certain obligations on Iceland. We need to read this agreement, and we need to meet certain obligations. Iceland was now producing energy directives, one and two, which started with the process that we see today. The European Union is initiating further directives or further changes in EU legislation on energy markets, where the European Union obviously has the goal of creating one uniform, continuous energy market. It has been observed more than once that the European Union such as this is not easy to use all kinds of means to achieve its goals, including Against the nations that form this relationship. A while ago, or rather I think that was last March, the European Union appealed to a treaties against several countries for not meeting tenders for the upcoming water rights and related hydropower workers. Now I wonder, as Iceland has also received a European directive that we need to publish this practicality as expected by the European Union of these countries: Is the senator not concerned that we are taking yet another step by means of this inclusion in the full implementation of this energy market?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u361	Mr. President. That's very good - and thank you. For the answer, a senator - that he brought to the attention of this divorce case, which was given a detailed discussion in the Morning Press for the weekend, and I think it surprised many. Only that aspect of the matter calls for a lot of publicity when this package of energy is discussed. I expect people will be more focused on this matter in the yet future discussions. Mr. President. The EEA treats the main agreement to our participation in business on a common market. This is primarily a business agreement. Now we are doing our part in that work. It is that my sentence is not worthy to claim that when we do not want to agree that we should yield to the sovereignty and control of energy resources, we do not feel that we are not worthy of any members of this agreement. If that's what they say, then the natural thing has become quite strange. It's a combination of everything that's not related. On the one hand, trade goes around in a reasonable way, in a uniform and other way, and that foreign people are benefiting from the organization, the provision and use of the nation's energy resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u362	President. Thank the senator for the answer. Now, the contract violation that I quoted earlier and that is correctly discussed in the morning is based on a 2009 service directive and the 2014 official shopping directive. These types have both been introduced into legislation in Iceland, 2011 and 2016. We have seen and heard that some form of a statement came from the European Energy Commissioner that the situation in Iceland is that it can be overlooked by a certain proportion of this energy package all together, i.e. missing the link to the country because of a cable. What about the service order? Does the senator know that someone has brought us news that the European Union considers us to be the exception of the service directive when it comes to energy or other directives dealing with free flow of goods or any such? The reason why I ask this is that, as the senator rightly noted, energy has long since been defined as any other product that should be used in the same way and classified as such. Therefore, we must ask ourselves, " When the European Union starts to submit to these directives, and we are about to implement this directive, the original and controversies will be fulfilled - and the European Union may be at risk that the European Union will take part in our affairs repeatedly. '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u363	Mr. President. This is exactly right. Senator. There is an uncarded area, it is not known, and there is only a large question mark who might become the influence of that service directive and the regulations for public shopping as well. A senator took care of it. It is absolutely necessary before the final decisions in this matter are made that this factor will be investigated and investigated in detail and in detail. That's what it is, Mr. President. This is just one of many things that are truly unprovable. It just cannot be natural that this energy package is expected to be readily accepted, such as some, unfortunately, before questions about this important point are answered. This is naturally just one of many things that are not obvious enough. It is not enough to establish the legal nature of this matter. We are familiar with the discussion of the legal advance that vanished from the last Wednesday at four o'clock in a talk. Senator, chairman of the House of Independence. We saw that everything was tented. We saw the flags that gripped the adherents of this case, where they presented each explanation for what this supposed legal notice might be. As far as it's known, he hasn't shown up. Assessments of the administrative value of such a warning and how it rhymed with the EEA Convention and whether there is a higher authority for state to proceed in this way: it's just a completely unsearched case. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I have a feeling that this is a completely unacceptable procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u364	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u365	V.E.G. President. To open my case, a question was presented in the Hall of Congress on May 14. about where the energy pack three would find the deed to get custody of the energy resource. You can argue that the answer may include: To find the subject of Friðrk Árni Friðriksson son of Már and Stefánsson Quoftsson, by permission of presidents: ▪ In view of the above, it is difficult to view the expansive office of the State as being equal to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 is well defined and defined. It seems rather necessary to view ESA authority as equivalent to 8. The Regulation would be vague and subject to interpretation of the above - mentioned terms. To add to that for Stefán Stefánsson, Kashlight on May 6th. that there are certain examples in the Regulation what they can do, i.e. The examples, but he did not reveal the complete details, and he did not state whether there was any authority involved. It is not defined or defined what power we are handing over to the institutions, so if the cause is undefined, it is not known where it ends. It is therefore why we, members of the Central Party, have been very involved in sending the matter to the joint EEA committee in order to get the final final and truly clear where and how the cause should be defined. So, according to our opinion, it is reasonable to send the package, the case, in the process of reconciliation, according to Article 102. The EEA Convention, as per the 102rd st. track No. 2/1993, for the EEA Convention. As it turns me around, the recipe is about this: First, the EU makes regulations. This Regulation is added to the EEA's annex. The Joint EEA Commission decides we want to introduce this. The EFTA states put a administrative notice, which, under normal circumstances, a decision should be made within six months, but okay. The EFTA countries will remove all the warnings that apply to them. The protocols are therefore implemented into the EEA Convention and the EFTA countries are members of the EEA agreement and are now subject to these regulations. The EFTA countries themselves, Iceland in our case, clean up the law so these regulations work against the legislation. If our laws conflict with them, adjustments must be made. It's a remarkable recipe, I'd like to say, and it just looks like it is. I'd like to quote a review received from Mr. Algmund, son of Jónasson, by permission of a president: We will suffer the loss of as a community custody of the energy, resources and processing, and will direct the launching process, thus speaking for the case on the part of the minister and on the board of directors' webs. When it has been noted that the great promise of a reduction in energy prices has not been made to the previous packages, we are told by the government that the electricity price has not gone up, and other factors must be reduced by the coming competition! At the General Assembly, it has been said that external pressures on the force sector will result in becoming ◯hagreen, not according to foreign authority, but according to an external authority. This is the point. The foreign mandates go out into the markets of this sector, linking it with the laws of supply and demand. I believe the public's interests should be guaranteed through the possession but not through the market through the relevant surveillance agencies, i.e. those who are competitive and consumer protection. If we look at articles that have been written recently, I'll have one from Bjarni Jónsson. I'm gonna allow me to quote it word for word, Mr. President's permission: The way the government is going to enter the energy package case is impossible, because it violates the EEA Convention and is thus at the edge of Europe's rights. Either the Council must accept Energy Package 3, as he came from the joint EEA committee, or to reject him altogether. You can't accept a little bit of it, but you can reject or postpone it. As a result, stakeholders, e.g. Vattenfall, Sweden, will be able to sue the illegal performance of the European Parliament, and then this induction will collapse, such as a gambling city, and will remain in Icelandic legislation The third energy market plough, with no exceptions, including its share, as 2 of the 4 legal advises of the State Department of State, considered to violate the Constitution of Iceland. It also seems that there is a basis for a lawsuit against the State in the United States for a violation of the Constitution. Those are some pretty big, big dots I've read around here. And to add to them again, I would like to give a witness as the Bookkeeper's National Association sent in. It's quite a husk they say there. By permission of the President: It has been reported that the Norwegian wind - power company has formed a daughter business in Iceland. The objective of the company is to build windmills and windmills here on the country. The newcomer has reported on new plans in Norway on wind mill gardens designed to produce hundreds of megawatts each and a total of about 1000 MV. Iceland, despite its instability, has a high level of inactivated large - scale wind power, in case of translucency. We have seen that foreign investors, with foreign workers, are allowed access to the unscrupulous nature of the country. This has recently occurred in both travel and fishing services, and it will occur in other fields. Unstable energy production has to be exported and may be expected to be exported, just as in the fish fire. Permissions for windmill gardens are already being observed here and will provide examples to be followed. It is difficult to resist future activation of winds and tides, as is expected in the world's energy issues. It is remarkable to read up here that the national relations of the bakers are concerned about nature protection in Iceland and thus agree with what I read here from the reviews of Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, which is quite clear in its review. I think we need to stop for a second. What we need to do at this point is send a pack of three energy in a reconciliation process. I mean, we're supposed to talk about this as a policy of reconciliation. That's a very nice and noble word, and that doesn't mean any rejection, unless you want to refuse, it means that we're going to make peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u366	President. I thank the senator for his speech. Hv. A member of the United States named the notice of a baker's national union, and others have been similar today. But I would like to ask. A senator will see if she will ever have seen evidence that the following examples can be resisted by the government of the United States: The Norwegian people build a wind power plant on the West. They decide on their own problems and at their own expense to put a cable to export the electricity to Europe, to get it somewhere in the Faeroe Islands and in the United Kingdom, something like that. They're going into all the work required in Iceland to get clearance for such a project. Let us now say that the Icelandic State or rural society is trying to put a stone in the street of this company. Have we been given any assurance that the European Union will not enter a contract break-up or anything like that in Iceland for resisting free flow of goods from Iceland to Europe? Second, suppose the Icelandic government, whether part of a community or a state, adheres to all rules, and does not prevent this company, whatever it is, from making its own strings, from exporting electricity. Am I mistakenly understood by the people here, considering everything we've got on the table, that if it does, it will take value what we're trying to get a reserve from today with this strange warning, i.e. that the ACER Institute, in our case ESA, will be in charge here - that we are trying to avoid today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u367	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is very much into the question. For example, suppose this occurs. A senator said that I was a reality: No. We just don't know that. As I see this, the joint EEA Committee, ESA, will be just a sort of stamp pad, like someone's come in, and I think that's right, for what ACER decides, where ACER will be the greatest joint EU member. If we have the sense to go to the EEA joint committee now and write in some real warning, that we can say no to plans like this, I want to think and really say I'll buy it. But I think if we don't take it now, this can end pretty badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u368	A respectable president. Today, many, or some, have described this warning as a mere home bridge or as an illusion. I think there may be some proof where European Union and the EEA treat European legislation has European legislation, or the laws given there, not Icelandic law. So it is only for us that we may feel better. As a result, by ensuing the types involved in the introduction of targets, the initiating of the ideologies, the tools responsible for this joint and interconnected energy market can work and work. Or is it? A senator does not agree that this is so? The European Union's long trying to create what it has been doing for a very long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u369	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I'm on it, it's a home bridge, like he said it was. A few days ago, during the discussions we had. One senator stating that this was nothing more than a statement, that it really was a statement that, for example, was a statement. The EFTA countries would have come along. And they have their interpretation. The Icelandic government has its interpretation. So third, we need to locate this in a synopsis. What I'm sure is that energy is a product, according to what's being done here. Our resource is being considered a product. This will result in an overhauling around our resources based on what is being done with goods. So I completely agree that these warnings exist in a home bridge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u370	President. Hv. A senator mentioned the writing of Ögmundur, the son of Jónasson, and his argument that the induction of the third energy package was working on the continued market of energy. The count of Jónasson's son has not only written this in a review given to the State Department but recently in an article in the Morning newspaper. He is presenting a very convincing argument as to how the energy package would play into such a trend. But in view of the fact that there is a problem. A senator mentioned this as a good question for me to ask. A senator does not believe that the inevitable consequence of this trend would be a very increased pressure to activate in Iceland. For no reason have I asked about this, and in line with writing to the son of Ögmundur of Jónasson, for the supporters of the left movement have generally put green initiatives in Iceland in recent years, and they have paid attention to further projects. One might ask: Is it reasonable to assume that the group that has now had doubts, so to speak, about a previous energy package should be on guard against this induction now? Not just in the light of a market plan, like what? A senator mentioned, which includes environmental considerations, as this category defines environmental protection, i.e. with opposition to the construction project in Iceland. Is it not to conclude that this energy package is designed to contribute greatly to the development of various mechanisms on the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u371	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was a great adversary. You see, it's really weird. It's amazing that left greens simply contradict themselves, I just want to let myself say, whatever the way they've spoken in the past few years. But what is the light of this is that Jónasson's pride is still in the right direction. He knows exactly what it's all about. And I cannot help but say that there is an amazing fact that left greens have the potential to add so much weight to the number of activations here. It is called the activation initiatives in some way, but the conclusion is that each Member State may be activated, all designed to please the EU. You just don't understand where the left are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u372	Great honor and honorary president. I was hoping to do it. A senator might somehow help me to see why the left green, now in the government, is acting in this way, apparently contrary to what the band has been preaching for years, especially with regard to nature protection, as this class defines that class. But, hey. A senator seems as surprised as I am at this conversion of the left movement to a green supply. I hope that I'm not going too far on the cheek - I think it's a good idea to wonder when such a strange change occurs - when I ask. Senator: Is it possible that this is part of any government agreement on other things, that the left movement has decided to support the source of the energy package to replace it with something else? We have seen the Independence Party yielding repeatedly in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u373	V.E.G. President. It's just a little interesting. I'm just saying there's hope of it. paritaprevir That's what Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson asks. Why? I can think of the expression "burning " in appeal, which was used when the board was put together. It was so broad that they just didn't disagree about anything. Hv. A senator also wondered if this is part of any agreement, that even the left ones submitted to the Independence Party in a matter, and then the Independence Party in another matter. I think that's exactly what's happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u374	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She's been talking here, like all of us, about the induction of the third energy package. It's come to my attention that the energy package advocates have talked very narrow about the energy package, on the interpretation, and have concluded that there's nothing in this package, it's just a complete zero, and that there's nothing to be afraid of, even though they all agree on, that there's going to be a warning. You get a different explanation for the answers. Interestingly, though, a number of talks of these followers have been more meaningful, to say the truth. They even have. dealt with Nazism. This is a reading from a book translated by a coworker of the speaker. People have talked about papalism and demented people, fear propaganda, etc. However, few have followed their talks with reason why this route should be chosen and why we are going to choose a route that is clearly legally uncertain. They avoid the discussion that has begun and may be about something that really matters, i.e. for the future, about the future energy policy, following the introduction of this energy package. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it does not believe that at the induction of the third energy package, we should look to what may follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u375	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. It is true that this interpretation has been made a bit narrow, especially the Parliament's arrangement. There has been no entry into what would require adjustment. In fact, we have come to see in official discussions changes in the Constitution of nature's protection. It is true that there is little that has been observed. It is as if they lacked grammatical reasoning. I'm in a mood to be insulationists, even Nazis, and I don't know what or what. The only thing that has been discussed that might be a reason on the subject, a material argument, is these warnings that are not to be found at all. It is claimed to be contained in the EFTA declaration, which is found in the Icelandic government and is included in this report. But something remarkable is the three editions just no harmony. So they don't really go to the depth of the matter because people are going to put this matter through. And when you do, you like to go to the man, as was described earlier. It's just because people have no intelligent reasoning and cannot stand by what they are about to begin this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u376	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It points to the fact that within the Board of Management Board's consultations, proposals for the Constitution change and that material arguments presented in the talks of those who have spoken to the energy package may be primarily these warnings. But we've been talking in a talker's talk about this warning, as well as in side rooms and in the halls. And there are different references to who they are. The answers to this warning have not yet been answered. Is this about the constitution or is it about the introduction of this Regulation? Are we warning against losing power to the national institutions that should be in the hands of us Icelanders? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u377	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. When he mentions this, which has appeared in the Enlightenment of the Constitution, it is remarkable to see that in Article 1. The drawings, by permission of the president, say: ▪ Renewables for the use of natural resources and national rights belonging to national property or owned by the Icelandic state shall be based on law and should be balanced and transparent. What's remarkable about this is that it also says that the same is true of a currency. Adoption agreements in the United States referred to recent agreements on the use of water sources. So I think it's quite amazing. And to answer the last question, about ACER, it is clear that ACER will have totalitarian authority here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u378	V.E.G. President. Here in another speech, I'm going to go deeper into this matter, but first, I'm going to make a little bit of an effort to make a statement earlier today, where it was presented to the council that they had somehow been accepting this energy package a few years ago. Now, when the two energy package or Directive was introduced here, there was a system plan first. Then, in 2015, the current industrial minister, including Following consultation with those in energy production, it is appropriate to refer to system plans for future transport projects as well as, especially, due to a global report. All of this was based on the fact that the second energy directive listed here assumed that humans would continue in the process and create a so-called system plan. It is thus wrong to say that this current energy package was introduced by a man - made program, making it clear in the speech and transmission of the so - called minister, the independence Ragnheiður the Elinhem of the Elín's Árnadóttir, that this directive was not being introduced in any way, but it was to continue with what was set in motion several years ago. What I would like to talk about right now is that I feel that I have not received any credible explanation or evidence that there is no chance that individuals or even the Control Center will file a contract violation against Iceland for not being on the right side of this energy package. And so the Icelandic law that we are about to change and install some alleged warning at the end of the day does not, of course, mean anything. There it is European law, i.e. The EU laws apply to the European Economic Area, not the Icelandic law. That's why it's so important that it's totally caught up in the middle of nowhere what this means for us. Lawyers, more than one, have written publicly or sent comments in which they point out that several of the EEA's articles actually require Member States, other than those quoted in this energy package, to meet their obligations. Seven. The EEA Convention does not mention that a state can give one-sided advance notice of its implementation in the national rights, however it provides a consistent approach or the need to ensure a uniform interpretation and implementation of the contract. Seven. says it'll tie up a contract. I bring it up here, a respectable president, to remind you that once we've introduced the types on this subject, and even if we're on any notice to home bridges, it's this contract that's in charge of a mission and a contract. If he says we should do this in a certain way, and this will bind us under the contract, of course, unless it is accepted by the joint EEA committee, which appears not to be here. It has also been shown, e.g. in an interview with the Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, that there is no reason to ensure that the EEA Monitoring Institute or Persons or doesn't sue the EFTA Court against Iceland for not keeping all of this together. This will not be followed by the European Union. It must be done now if we are to do so on a different level. I mentioned here in an earlier evening answer, and mentioned a discussion in the Morning paper that discusses the right to use on the basis of EU rules, or the European Union's requirements for innovation rights, and referred to energy managers, including that electricity contracts or existing contracts will need to be issued once contract time is complete. Then, in this fine study, Ólafsson Sóláfsson writes that in 2016 - it is actually a review, for, of course, we are to remember this - the Icelandic government received an announcement from the EFTA, ESA, by permission of a president: ... that these laws were to be passed requiring marketing prices for the use of public resources of nature, with the aim of producing electricity. It also stated that all relevant contracts would be revised so that the remainder of a contract period would be paid by an electronic company. The article will review the appeal of the European Union on a case, a violation of treaties, against several European countries for not opening these water rights. The contract break - which was appealed on two items, one of the 2006 service directives - could therefore be based on more, but this is called - and on official shopping regulations from 2014 that have been adopted by Iceland. The concern that I have, a respectable president, of this is that by taking this step now, to introduce even more of these EU market policies, when it comes to energy, we are still increasing the risk that the greater authority will somehow fit in here in Iceland and determine how we operate our resources. I'm not saying that the European Union will be able to operate or own in some way the geothermal or fallwaters, I don't think to say, but clearly, according to the energy policies we've seen from the European Union or its subsystems, to influence how energy is new, how it's sold, and at what cost. For Iceland it is extremely important to be competitive with other countries and to be able to control one thing and control the price we want to get for our energy. I wondered, if we could just sell the electricity a little less expensive - stop collecting some funds, resource funds, just reduce electrical power prices to households, and that's why companies would offer the electricity at a lower price -- whether we were allowed to do it. I don't think we could do that, given the rules that are in force today. I think the European Union is bringing in the ropes so that we would probably at least be sullied, possibly appeal to us for selling electricity less than is done in the European Union. This may explain the policy that Landing has taken the past few years to aim its electricity prices, if I recall correctly, at European prices. Now the question now is what it means to own electronic energy - can use it in a way that we think best, attract to invest and build up businesses and jobs, reduce energy prices to individuals and companies - if we don't control it ourselves. This case can, of course, be solved. The simple solution is to refer the case as permitted to the joint EEA committee, where they will be asked for annuity or a case in the process of reconciliation. There is nothing dangerous about it, and the fact that people are standing here calling it an emergency or an emergency is simply offensive. This is written into the contract, and it does not require the use of this carefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u379	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good talk, which is just what you've been calling out for. I want to state that I miss that the energy package followers are not involved in this discussion because I know that there are quite a few of them in a house. Hv. A senator introduced a contract break-off that, if I recall correctly, was two months ago devoted to the 2006 service directive and the 2014 State Pronunciation Regulation. When it comes to this matter, we need to ask ourselves: " When the government, the owner of the energy resource, goes to public exports, it is of great importance on the basis of the market who would accept those contracts. Officials may be allowed to make money over a longer period of time, but private citizens may need less time to meet their requirements for fruitage. Officials may allow 40, 50, to 100 years of profit. An example is land induction, which was established in the 1960's and is making money today. The private sector, however, would be very likely to meet the requirements for interest in the economy in 10◯25 years. Obviously, this would push up electrical prices. I'd like to direct a question to you. A candidate on how this would affect domestic production - to form climatic, aluminium productions of hundreds of jobs, even thousands of and secondary tasks related to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u380	V.E.G. President. It is obvious, of course, that if we are faced with a profit - making industry that increases or increases in energy sales because of personalization or the availability of the newfound agreements - but the price for the innovation agreements needs to be higher - as discussed in the examples under which we are doing so. A senator here, it's obvious that this will impair the competitiveness of the country. Whether it's in the industry or food or industrial products or anything - no matter what their name or occupational status, the cost of the enterprise will be higher. We're just not supposed to have anything, Icelanders, be taking any chances with it. We should not be taking the chance that others, but we ourselves can decide how we want to use or sell the electricity we have here. The example I mentioned before, on the treaties of the European Union and the demands of new contracts in Iceland, is a sign that there are people, other than Icelands, working with or affecting the way we handle our energy, not whether we own the resource, but how we treat it. That's the big deal. If we see that the integration with the European energy market will be more and more, we need to look. The requirements are more unique, greater flows between countries, one market where men can select and buy power across countries or countries. In fact, people don't even talk about countries there, I understand they're talking about territory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u381	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. These are interesting speculations, and I think it's a responsibility to roll them over, because what we're discussing here should not be interpreted lightly. I think we're at a certain point, no matter what people think should have done with the induction of a first and second energy package, which we can call an incision. At the time of the former energy packages being introduced, what is happening is not expected to happen right now. We can similarly check into a pack of four energy, but we don't know what energy pack five and six are. I have the feeling that these energy bags will follow even more pressure against Icelanders to hand over or be less responsible for how we employ our energy resources. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees that it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u382	A respectable president. Most of us have spent a few hours earlier looking up the Internet and reading what is involved in the European Union and its countries, about energy policy and so forth. When we go through the EU energy policy or subsidiary, it's all the same thing, people are going to try to improve energy efficiency and make the market uniform, i.e. that all countries can sit at the same table and buy inexpensive energy wherever they want - and anything else, they must not stop energy from moving across borders, that is something else that is clearly presenting and including. in the Norwegian report on the fourth energy package. What we are facing is: Yes, the EU's aim is clearly to turn energy into a uniform product that can flood the European Economic Area in all directions and control how the product is delivered, at what price and how it is sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u383	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, Sveinnsson, for a fine speech. I find that the danger that is imminent with the induction we are looking at right now is that we are losing control, more than the word has a energy package of one and two, in the general energy markets. In this context, I look forward to saying that there is little room for us to have any possible control - for those who have confidence in the alleged warnings - in the timing of sea cables if we have lost control of energy markets. It's underlying fear, and I think that I'll be more aggressive as one reads more carefully in the data of the third energy package. There's a point difference. First, of course, there are certain things that have touched this market in the first and second energy package, and then we now looked at the induction of the third energy package and the period from induction to the layer of sea cables, and then from the fixation of sea cables and forwards. There are many who have experienced that a large percentage of the energy markets are out of our hands on the final decision. I'd like to hear from previous experience with some kind of work. The senator's reaction to the fact that the government of energy markets broke away from us in one samurai piece at a time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u384	A respectable president. It is clear that we are ensuing, this becomes reality, saw from layout to home bridges, these types of European Union in Icelandic rights. If this is not done in a specific and correct way, it is likely that a case will be taken against the land. That's for sure. We are gradually changing our management with energy into a joint European agency and progressively giving up power or authority, or what we call it, affecting our energy market. Yes, we're taking a step today, if the proposal is approved. While humans may be able to argue that this is a small step, we are changing the Power Institute to meet certain requirements that come through this energy package. It is clear that this is being done. It's always taking this step. I specifically mentioned in the previous speech today that if we don't put down our heels right now, and let's say that it's not for Iceland to make this package go on, we have to say stop because we don't trust ourselves to become part of the common major European energy market. We should now because we know what is in the package. A few years ago, there was always talk of looking in the package, but now we know completely what is available. What's available after trying to get out is not acceptable for Iceland, as the situation is today. Therefore, the case should be referred to the joint EEA committee. But the European Union is clearly on the way of trying to keep all the countries of the EEA under a common hat, on a common market with common rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u385	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson responding. I wonder what. A senator would appreciate that those who are most aggressive as regards the induction of the third energy package now are more likely to slowly walk through the door of joy at the induction of the fourth and fifth packages in due course and whether or not. A senator believes that they are likely to be, no matter what the fine packages waiting for us on the assembly, would allow the same partners to use sources we have, according to 102.g. The EEA Convention. Or do the senator, such as the person standing here, believe that by not trusting in the authority written in the agreement in this case now, men are weakening their authority and are still reducing the likelihood that men will fail in later stages? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u386	A respectable president. I think it's my food, huh? A senator, that there is absolutely no chance that those who want to get this case through now have any further desire to take advantage of the legal authority in the EEA Convention, i.e. to refer this to the joint EEA committee. I don't know why these good people should want to do it then. I would like to point out that when we introduced one of the directives we sometimes call a pack of energy, we made it so elegant that the European Union has the reason to reject our access to a pack of energy on the basis that we had introduced the two numbers so exceedingly well and, above all, what we had to do. There was one reason why we couldn't have had an exception and the other one was that Iceland was producing so much energy. Nothing will change. I don't think it's possible to say that one will have more courage or courage to apply it in the past or in the four, five, or the number of energy boxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u387	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I would've wanted a guess. A senator of the methodology used by the State Department of State, Carl Baudenbacher, former judge of the EFTA Court. This is a retired person who works as a developer of opinions. This is one of the people he has done, and he was called to work by the Ministry of State. When this rating came and it worked as a bit over the government, bringing it on such a final scale. But this opinion is primarily natural law. What I miss is that they don't look at the political side. It's important. In the opinion of the company, Baudenbacher writes that he believes that if the induction is rejected, it will lead to uncertainty regarding the EEA contract. But now, the European Union looks very closely at us with clean energy. A map has been drawn from Iceland to Europe - all by the consciousness and will of the Icelandic government and stamped in Brussels - showing that we are very important to the European Union. It'd be nice to get a guess. A senator for his past experiences as Minister of Foreign Affairs, whether he does not believe that this legal entity is being totally overlooked as a political party to the case in our best interests, i.e. This great need for our pure energy. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator could only come into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u388	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u389	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the questions. Yes, it was interesting when Carl Baudenbacher and Mrs. Baudenbacher writes in his opinion of the 102nd par. is clearly that we can use it. You're right next door. A senator that there is a political party that is not taken into account in this opinion, but at the same time, the lays off by one political declaration, that is the declaration that there may be some uncertainty about the EEA agreement. Of course, that is no more than a political statement because it is written in law, as the analyst said, the article is there and it is there to use it. Although not used for 25 years, it does not change that it is in the contract. It's not some kind of emergency, it's in the contract. But it is true that the European Union has long been very interested in connected Iceland with the market. Of course, it should give us some weight when it comes to talking to each other. I believe, however, that we have been quite clear so far, many Icelandic politicians, at least, a sea cable is something that is not very appealing. Of course, there are others who have given it up to go that way, and it may weaken our position to use this card.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u390	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. He entered exactly what I think is very important during the discussion, that, first of all, we can activate 102. g. in the EEA Convention, which is the way to treat when specific issues are not reached. It's a contract. That is exactly what happened. A member of the United States stated that it was made up of companies, such as the World Health Organization of the University of Reykjavík, that this is mainly an emergency. But there is no agreement that this is an emergency. If this were an emergency, it would be part of the deal itself. But it isn't. Not to be said that e.g. An institution such as the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York City, is making this known entirely? [[The president calls.]] It's just a contract deal that's part of the contract and this legal way can be carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u391	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I think this excellent institution is going a bit ahead, to interpret it as some sort of emergency. It will not be determined, whether it is now the resignation of the Minister who at the time went before the Icelandic membership contract that the European Economic Convention has been negotiated for some emergency rights, or that this was an article that had to be taken when everything else ran and just once or twice over a period. It's not like that. It just states in the contract that if you think you can't pass the results you can get back to the EEA Committee. And of course we should. It is really necessary to do so now. For so long, we've been wondering if we're going too far in the pipeline. Therefore, it is now time for us to try to see if we can get a reserve from a language of enormous importance to an Icelandic interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u392	Mr. President. Of course, in this important issue that we now discuss and are relevant to the future, it is important to listen to experts, both experts, and those who have written articles. There have been many good experts written articles on this subject, and I came across one of these in the news editor Will, by Kristinn Sigurjónsson, an electrical engineer. I just want to come on to her because I think what this expert has said is very interesting and important. In this article, he discussed the unique status of electricity among other energy sources. It must be produced at the same time as it will be used and the same value as production; it must be as high at the moment the need calls for it. Thus, electricity is not a traditional product, but it should be defined as such. The European Union defines it as a product in these energy trays. But electricity has a completely different market law than any other energy that can be stored, e.g. power can be stored in batteries, but in very small amounts. Iceland has a very special energy situation, as we know it. This is not just because we have a lot of renewable energy but because we are such. with two large geystoons, a lake of Thorris and a neckstone, which have many months to share. Land activation has used this to produce less electricity in the summer than the summer's current, and it is collected into the central water supply in order to produce more in the winter than water spills tell us to. With this much exchange due to electricity production, Iceland has a fairly stable electrical price. In Europe, however, high priority is given to environmentally friendly energy sources, which are e.g. The wind and the sun power. The problem with energy sources is that they produce electricity from natural whims, in terms of both the wind and the weather, but electricity use is little dependent on it, except when it comes to building houses. In addition to this, the European Union has aimed at taking out unpopular power plants such as coal and nuclear power plants and using other more expensive power plants, and all of this will lead to higher average power prices. If we carry this contrast between Iceland and Europe, the price difference between Iceland and Europe will be enormous. On the one hand, when the weather is well - off in Europe during the summer, the electricity, so to speak, will be very costly when winter comes and people need to swallow. We can tell the difference between this steady energy energy that Iceland has against the large fluctuations in the European Union. This leads us to exactly what matters in this, that is, the European Union's sea cable and motivation to balance this energy flow, to use the pure energy, because energy exchange lies ahead, and to control all of this together, which is the natural ultimate objective of the European Union. A lot of talk has been made that European strings will not be laid, at least here by the rulers. However, sea cables and other ground cables are always becoming more common and less expensive in production. There's a lot of developments going on. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. For the sake of this time, I'd like to come back to this again and wish to be put back on the rosary, where I'll go further to the cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u393	A respectable president. Hv. A senator came in here on a subject I wanted to discuss in my next talk. As a result, there is a fine opportunity to get a second opinion. A senator's opinion of that, more intimate. It's about the development of energy markets in Europe. Hv. A senator was well aware of the difference between energy production in Iceland and energy production in Europe and the problems humans are dealing with there. As a result, I would be very curious to hear a meal. A candidate on how much political importance he believes the European Union would put together to make contact with this physical or general market here in Iceland. Not without reason, because we've seen through the years that once the European Union has developed some of its main objectives, people go quite far in trying to achieve those goals, no matter what might compromise the law, I'm not talking about some imaginary notice or wish for a report in a Senate resolution. So I ask, " Count out why." In view of this difference between energy production in Europe and here, a senator does not see that there is a high risk that the European Union will, with all available efforts, be able to access energy production here and that we are seriously weakening our defenses, in the sense of being able to determine for ourselves what reasons we might sell energy, through the introduction of this third energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u394	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is an interesting subject of reflection and a question. This matter is vital throughout the discussion. I agree completely with what. A senator, by means of induction of a pack of three energy, we are preparing the soil. We may not see a cable coming tomorrow, but it's shorter than they think. Technology throws in incredible numbers, production has become less expensive, etc. So this will become a reality. In this regard, I think that the European Union's very motivation is underestimated, particularly by the management teams, who want to introduce this energy package. They say it doesn't matter to us. We don't have to worry about this. I think there's quite a wrong assessment of the situation. The European Union is in great need for clean energy, and the European Union is one of very few major sources looking for a lack of cleaner energy and a general lack of future energy because the use of fossil fuels is very high and it is being eliminated from coalesces. The bottom line is, Iceland is a very desirable option because it's pure energy and they've set it up. The sea cable from Iceland to Europe has been drawn on a map. [[The president calls.]] This shows that, of course, they are heading this way, and that is their goal. [[The president calls.]] The goal is to get rid of pure energy. We've already prepared it by bringing in this energy package so it's really going to be ready. [[The president calls.]] The reality of the matter is ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u395	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u396	A respectable president. It is my opinion that the two main priorities of this European Union and its years include this joint financial market of Europe, including the euro, and that they try to correct it from the horrors experienced by humans in the financial crisis, and the energy issues. The European Union and, unfortunately, must say, have gone very hard on matters that may now seem insignificant in comparison, such as being allowed to move unheated raw meat, a case not even within the EEA Convention. However, in terms of the fact that you would maintain a very limited concern for the whole European Union, the Icelandic government has been pressured to do what we thought and to argue that it was out of harmony with the EEA Convention. Could this not be an indication of what is expected in such a big interest? As I say, one of the main priorities of the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-20-106.u397	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I think he just walked in there on a very important aspect that we need to watch in this discussion, i.e. the raw meat. We brought in the 2009 European Union food legislation, and we weren't interested in being brought in raw meat and placed on so-called cryo-conservation, that all meat would be frozen for 30 days, reminds me, before being moved into the country. We thought we had made sure of this convention. It is a legal premise that they thought was the best. Another comes during the day. Ten years later, we need to import raw meat into the country that is now in the autumn months. That point, in comparison with the topic under discussion, is natural only a minor matter. A senator mentioned. Therefore, it is quite clear to me that when the European Union put such emphasis on interest here in Iceland, breaking this freezing family wall, it will certainly do everything in order for this situation to go through, which is of much greater importance to Europe as well as the European Union.
