ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u1	President. I've had a few conversations with why. A senator of things, not all intelligent things, but our conversations about the media have been. There are several basic issues that we differ, especially with the State Radio, but on the ground, I think we would agree that we have the best interests of the media. I think, and what. A senator will correct me if I'm wrong, that we both worry about the status of the media. I'm going to go so far ahead of my share to say that action is now needed in terms of the private media. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that? And, yes, you can find all the initials and suggestions you make, that it's not exactly what you want. Hv. A senator said that he was now convinced that his view of the State Radio was not necessarily everyone - perhaps not necessarily a party or two. A senator who has been in charge of that radio for years without even applying the suggestions. A senator here presents to you on state radio. But that's another story. What I wanted from what I wanted. A senator in my previous answer is as follows: Here we have a support system that is going to do what I think I do and what I think I do. A senator will agree to do so, i.e. Support private media. Why can't we watch that part of the system in this suggestion? For the benefit it makes, and can it make a big difference today in the media?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u2	Mr. President. I'm sure it's not the last time I ever saw each other. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppé views were divided, either here or anywhere else, about the press. I said before, I was afraid that by initiating a sponsoric system as it appears here, we were in the doctor's shoes that would not cut the wound but would give a pretty little aspirin that will last for a while. But the patient is not cured. I'm stressing that we need to take the assignment to define the role and duties of the Kingdom News. I know that there is nothing shy or sensitive about it. A senator is participating in that work. Of course, there has to be a link between the Kingdom Radio Contesting and then I'm looking primarily at the fact that the Government Radio is directly cutting down the main sector of independent media, especially those not based on subscriptions or e.g. Magazine revenues. And it matters to us when we are discussing the media environment that we realize that the State is playing a huge role there. If the government's involvement in the media market doesn't affect the business and economy of the individual media, I think we need to have a very long conversation, huh? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, because then I've been unable to convince you of what I've been trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u3	President. I hope I never get into a lot of pain. The senator, who does not have the knife to cut it, will not even give a aspirin. Hv. A senator preaches here an opinion and reviews the role and position of the VOLV. What does what? A senator's idea that it's gonna take a long time? How long have we been doing that? Is it not relatively recent to do so not too long ago? The policy of management has changed completely following the last assessment. But the dog is right. Senator, I'm always available in that discussion, the discussion of basic questions. Gonna go for it. A senator telling himself to the private media while: " Hump, growl, because we're wondering about the position and role of RUS? ' Don't worry, it's got our best interests in mind, eventually, if you survive. Transmission funds are like poison to the bones. A senator when he comes to the media. We have a lot of transfer funds, Mr. President. Aren't we paying for audio recordings with transfer funds? Is that not even the book edition in there? Are we not paying innovation companies all over town, and let us pray for it through a transfer fund that has become a negative word in the mouth? A senator when it comes to the media? I know why. A senator is a reasonable man who bases his case on evidence. I've had, as many times have been said, a conversation with both of them. A member of the council and his brothers. I want to pray with sincerity. A senator to answer my questions about the fact that in countries where the state media is not in advertising markets, it is not a problem. A senator uses the word picture here to describe the status of RUV in advertising markets, but he still decides to strengthen the private media. Why is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u4	Mr. President. What I said in my speech and in my speech. A senator must have noted: If we are going to strengthen the independent media that I believe is necessary, let us do so in a transparent way, and let us do so so in an equal sense and in a similar way. But that's not what happens in this bill. That's the main reason why I'm not as happy with the bill as I could be, and that knows why. Senator. It's as if everyone's walking over the same thing as everyone sitting at the same table and living on the same board. It's that simple. It is also that way in Europe, as I traced, not only being fortified - in many countries, it is being strengthened by independent media for various reasons, and it may be wise, but there is also one thing that humans do, they try to use the tax system. And why do they use the tax system? Because this is the case, best assured. They use the tax system, e.g. by making a decision not to tax taxes with respect to the media subscriptions as we do here. It's, for example. not done in Britain. In France, this is less than 3%, in Spain, about 4%. We're in 11%, right? A senator, we increased it 2015 from 7% to 11% and 2007 - yes, it was my class that stepped up in that subject, not to raise that number, but because it was done and I think it was a mistake. [[You raised it.]] Of course, we should admit a mistake when made. Of course, it is also so that we must have courage and courage and courage in this council hall to discuss the roles and duties that we expect to make his Kingdom broadcast. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u5	President. Finally, at last, so that I witness in the literature, in literature as good if the media doesn't show up in the media at the time, we see a bill for a song to support the media. This is a vast bill, and there are measures and, of course, a system around it. No doubt there are some things I would have had a bit different here and somehow different there, I would have been willing to examine a lot of other ways, but I'm glad that this is the highest bill. A minister who fulfills the agreement of the three government groups in a government covenant, finding a way to strengthen the private media. I've been watching the press discussions for quite a long time, as many people in here, Mr. President, and I've been thinking it's because we're not talking about the actual status of the individual media, but we're always mixing the conversation about the state radio position in there. A report that has been published in this issue that asks questions about the position of the local media was particularly about the right to allow alcohol advertisements and the position of RUV to be held in a commercial market. I am not one of them, though the question was asked that denys that the state radio position in the media market has an impact, not at all. Of course it does. I'm not one of those, either, I'm going to let myself say, the childish belief to think that a change in that position would go exactly the same money just to the private media. There you go. I think I have a better understanding of the market than they do. People who speak in such a way that companies who decide to buy an advertisement from the State Radio, probably due to the spread of the Kingdom radio and observation, just think, "Hey, that's off. I'm just putting the exact amount in one of the smaller media. That's not how the market works, huh? Senators sitting here in this room. I can blame you more for the market here at a special school later tonight. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Even I, President, have fallen into the pit we always do when discussing private media, talking about RUS. Why? This bill isn't about VOLV. Stop letting this bill be about VOLV. Face it, boy. Councilmen, in the situation of the unique media, are absolutely serious, that all of this is involved in a vast review of RUS that we all know in this room because we are reasonable people, taking a long time, increases the risk that the private media will start to lose their numbers. Why are we concerned about the situation of the individual media? In view of the discussion, the only answer to this question is VOLV. I've tried, Mr. President, to ask why. In countries where the state media is not in advertising markets, people are also concerned about the position of the individual media. Why is that? I guess I'm not any smarter than I suppose, so I'm beginning to conclude that the commercial share of the state media isn't the major variable, as some seem to conclude. Why do the North countries support their own private media? Not with the tax wills, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, with direct support through transfer fund. Why are they doing so despite the fact that the national government medium is not at the commercial market? No one has ever been able to answer that question. No one who claims to be a RUSB in a commercial market is the major variable. It's so narrow that I don't know where to begin. Have these people never been on the Internet? Have these people never seen advertising on the Internet? Have these people read the figures on international advertising? Have these people watched European Union conflicts with Facebook, Google, YouTube, etc.? No, it doesn't matter. REV it is. You may suspect that, in fact, this is all people's belief that we are not supposed to have a national radio. There are some of them. According to members of Congress, their views, such as they have not been in years, were quite honest. It's fine, but stop mixing it with needed measures to support the private media. Then we won't be doing what we do here if we sneak our interests in here because the situation of the individual media is very serious. There is a reason why in every country around us, governments are wondering how they can support a democratic discussion through private media. Because democracy itself is threatened, so I allow myself to be dramatic. I'm not even joking about this, even if I sometimes stopped joking about this chair. Secular democracy itself is threatened by the situation of the media, which can be exposed to social talk and illness. Our job is to protect the media, and I don't care what the media's gonna be able to do with strength according to this bill. I don't care who their owners are. There are a lot of owners of the media that I won't be particularly happy about getting strength. I don't care what their political views are. What I care about is that they don't have to exist that are critical of me and all of us here. That's what I care about, Mr. President. I'll at any time, and I've actually offered it in informal conversation, settle over the RUS position, but I'm not involved in mixing it into this bill. Let us ask ourselves, " Why is it everyone is wondering about the position of the unique media, completely independent of the media, in that country? ' Let us ask ourselves, " Why does a committee following a committee in all countries wonder how to promote democratic discussions? ' So let us consider whether it is more important to promote a democratic discussion or to consider whether the State is running a media medium in Iceland. This bill is like I came in here and suggested how you can do it. I think a lot of things in this bill are going to be complicated and difficult to do. They'll have to find a way to do things. There are some things that I think very well, things I would have been different as I entered, but this bill is a real proposal for how we can do what we agreed to do when we formed this government. Why would we agree on that? Because of all the things I was talking about, because of these concerns we have. I'm going to predict that unless there's any support to the private media that would have to be done for years, which will obviously not be now or will be back again, we'll watch that the media system will be quite different in a year's time. Not all of them will survive. Will new ones be replaced? I don't know. I think we need to be quite rich to deal with the task of establishing a media today. Is that what we want? Do we want people and businesses who have enough money and can lose money to the media, or do we want to have a variety of small media that take the community talk as unique? Do we want to strengthen our community talk? Why are we supporting political parties? Why are we strengthening ourselves as part of a democratic discussion? Why are we doing so? [[Take it up to the bottom of the road.]] [[The point is: Yeah, why?]] The above - mentioned speakers should consider their comments on controversial matters. □ How can we strengthen our faith in Jehovah? I don't understand, but there are a lot of things in this world I don't understand. I'm, President, a simple man, and I'm not trying to get things out of my way. That's why I watch things like that. Here's a bill for private media support. Let us discuss it, discuss its contents, discuss the need, discuss the need, find the way to do this effectively. Here are some good suggestions, see if this works or if something needs to be done. Let us not mix it with a discussion about the Kingdom Radio and our differing attitude toward it. I think of State Radio as the only most important cultural institution in the country. On my position to look up because I consider the film collection or collection of VOLV, Channel 1, the other and that which I can mention, one of the most important things we can do to support Icelandic culture, i.e. Keep this out? Should I let it color my position in support of the private media? That went crazy, Mr. President. Let's stop messing around. Now I see that I don't have to talk anymore, but I'm going to end up sharpening us one more time and I'm going to ask these questions that no one I've asked has answered, none of the people I've answered here tonight, none of the ones I've been sitting with in the various media, the private, the perpetator, none of the ones I've talked with under the wall. No one has been able to answer the question, " How is it that the North countries are supporting their private media despite the lack of advertising by the state media? ' Why is that? Is this something the North countries watch and say, "Hey, no, that's not necessary? Icelanders say it's just a matter of getting state media out of a commercial market. That's not the way it is, so it can't be that we need to support the private media. No, they're adding support. I'm going to, Mr. President, quote the report on the debate in the North countries where no one is in doubt about the need for private media support. Thus, a major debate has taken place in the North countries over the past few years in order to strengthen the media so that they can fulfill their democratic role in these momentous changes. The government of other Norwegian countries has responded to this trend by making changes in government grants to the media, with the aim of promoting their ability to perform their democratic role in changing environments. In recent years it has also been published with the so - called White Books, including the White Books. In Norway and Sweden, where government grants to the media are proposed to be increased, further efforts will be undertaken for the media. Why are they doing this despite the lack of advertising by national media? I request an answer to that question from the one who has already spoken and to the one who will talk and insist that the big change is RUS's on a commercial market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u6	Mr. President. I'm disappointed. Hv. A senator promised a senior course that never came. [[Up front.]] In fact, it would have come from a more unexpected direction, but I would have accepted it always end up adding flowers. Hv. In fact, a senator gave us a creative gift to talk about later, but I'm going to leave it between parts. He doesn't want us to talk about taking part in a media market in Iceland. It is similar to talking about a planned flight from Iceland to another country without referring to Icellands or talking about a small sales trade in Iceland without bringing up Hagar. I have to ask you what. Senator: Does he know which radio station in Iceland is the most listening? Does he know? Hv. A senator spoke of the situation, and I asked: "Do you want to? " A senator freezes the present situation, the condition in which we are in the private media, the verse of state dragons? It seems to me, after a quick lecture on this bill, that there will be no improvement in national newscasts, there will be no improvement in the development of the country. Mind your own business. A senator? I'm worth what. A member of the council was impressed that he asked for things and things, but he will hear my speech. Still, I have to ask him, " How much can this situation cost? ' We are already spending 4.5 billion or more on The Kingdom News. It gets another $2 billion in advertising income. At this point, 400 million minus the Committee is to be taken to strengthen other media. Then we are up to 7 billion, and subscriptions over our heads will cost us the people of the country. That's why I'm asking. A senator: How much can this cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u7	President. I hope so. A senator respects it to me that these were many questions and there is a possibility there will be one between a ship and a dock that I can make a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u8	There's more coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u9	Yes, there are more answers. How much will this cost? I'm not one of those people who thinks they have a magic answer to that. How much can democracy cost? How much effort can be taken in Icelandic languages? How much effort can we make for locks? Has a what? A senator followed up a discussion on a PISA survey that discussed the role of the media? How much can that cost? Should we put it all together? I don't know. I'm not one of those people who think in such a simple way that they must fit into an excel-tail. [[Up front.]] Unchangeable situation, no, on the contrary, I came into it in my speech, Mr. President, that I think the way to freeze the situation as it is today, i.e. not bringing new media into the market, no support for the media. Then there's the only media that could get in the media that could be owned by a strong party. Is that what we want? I don't think so. I think the way to establish an even more diverse media market is to strengthen those starting a media market. It is wrong, Mr President, this is not particularly concerned with local news reports. That's exactly wrong. These are among the conditions listed in the definitions 4.j 1.g. and I wonder. To read a paper on page 12, please read the following article. 12 with special access to this. I've been working in a local newspaper and I know what the situation is there. I know how important such support would be to such a local newscast. The highest listening varies according to age. I don't think I have scientific research, but it's a pleasure to see what Channel 1 has done to raise its hearing in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers that were up and up. It struck me before then. A senator said that it was being done in all countries, and suddenly an old text of mine started, with the permission of a president: ▪ Go, sufferers in a thousand lands. Actually, I didn't know there were thousands of countries, but let's leave it in between. I'm not necessarily saying that it's right for us to do exactly what the North countries are doing, which is 1,5520 times more humane than we are. Hv. A senator said that they strengthened their media, even though the state media was not at a commercial market. If our government medium wasn't at a commercial market and we taxpayers had to compensate for it, it would cost us an additional $2 billion. Then the inevitable question: Is it really the strength for democracy to strengthen a strong Kingdom medium?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u11	President. We're gonna go for a second. From the fact that we are fewer than our neighbors in the north, a senator offers clear conclusions. I conclude that there is an even greater need for support for the media here, since this results in a lower income. Enterprises are simply fewer, including advertisements and subscribers. I conclude that there is a greater need for support in Iceland than there are millions of countries around us, although there are not many millions. In terms of the democratic role of RUS, I haven't made it clear enough. A senator did not quite notice what I said. The democratic part is about the media in general. Therefore, we need to strengthen our personal media. I think I've spoken many times in my talk about the important cultural role of the Kingdom broadcaster. I think I even mentioned that the State Radio was one of the nation's major cultural institutions. How much it's worth, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u12	A respectable president. It was interesting to listen to the speech of the former member of the News News News magazine that gave members of the Parliament the support he spoke about in his speech and then became a senator of the left green. To say that this is not about RUSH is, of course, a relatively simple feature of this picture. Of course it's about the bigger picture. PRIV is the focus of this market that there is no discussion about the media environment in Iceland that could be different from taking the largest person into that discussion. And the U.S. advertising operation of the U.S. senators finds it normal how RUV acted at a commercial market during the summer in which those with the European battles dried up the advertising market because they paid to buy advertising around soccer to buy advertising elsewhere in the program, thus spending all their money on advertising? Advertising on the Internet, the senator came in. Got it. A senator that we should give private media the same freedom as those on the Internet have? That, of course, is fundamental. Is the senator willing to support their launching on the same websites as on the Internet, as those companies do that includes their advertising? The Senator suggested a little in his speech that those who have spoken here on the part of the Independence Party would not want to strengthen the independent media. Of course, that is not true. That's what we want. We just want to go somewhere else. Why is this not to be done by adapting the situation of these medias by reducing the State's laws to the business, thus creating a foundation for them to compete on that basis? The senator should not try to paint a simple picture of himself in these talks. [[The president calls.]] As far as the lack of taste is concerned, he has worked so hard with the media he has done over the years. [[The president calls.]] He's on the same level as the rest of us, well in this thing we're discussing at what we're talking about. A senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u13	I don't know. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u14	President. Thank you. A senator for recalling my past as a senator, I am quite proud of it, and I rely on it. A senator would agree with me. My simple, president, does not focus on the subject of this bill, but on not being unnecessary. Hv. One senator said, "You can't talk about the media without talking about VOLV. " Yes, that's quite possible. That's what you did, for example. Three political parties in a political treaty that they negotiated and agreed, all three groups speaking of private media without even referring to RUS. We didn't have a problem two years ago, Mr President. I haven't suggested it. The members of the Independence Party do not want to support the private media. It has been misunderstood if they come to that conclusion. Not at all. What I'm trying to tell you is that people who are getting them too involved in VOLV may not be aware of the need for personal media support right now. Hv. A senator asked me about the freedom of the media to advertise on the Internet, I think I got it, that it'll be the same thing that's going to be done in foreign companies that advertise it. I can't quite figure it out. [[Up front.]] We've given the media and the adverts here more strict rules than others, e.g. with respect to alcohol advertisements. I'm not about to change it, but that's why I think there's a need to support the private media. That's why I think the need is greater. As for advertising's enchantments and occasional advertising campaigns, I haven't observed it. But I'm going to say that there is no problem in my mind. I don't think we're in the magic situation that can be the best thing about RUSU at a commercial market. [[The president calls.]] I've even thought about it here. [[The president calls.]] But it's not relevant to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u15	A respectable president. Of course, it is not that in the Treaty, some methodology was signed and that RUS was excluded. That was not our understanding. The senator does not answer the question of whether he is willing to adapt the competitive environment of free media to what happens only in the environment in which we live. He wants to limit it. Nor does he answer whether it is natural for him to find that ad department of VOLV to use the competitive threat of drying up the advertising market for a certain period of time. These are familiar with all advertising agencies, and they all know how the market was dried up during the summer when RUS used its strength and size. Is there no reason to limit this? Is it not reason to reduce this activity? Is there another way we can adapt to our environment? Advertising is based on touch effects. It's all become measurable. Advertising will be complete; they can be published twice in one place to reach the same number they reached elsewhere, reaching the target groups as they are. It's all tested out and south. [[The president calls.]] But can we not adapt this business environment? Is it not an unusual challenge for us to take advantage of RUS and open this market so that the media can compete where freedom is? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u16	President. I said that I would not answer any of the advertising campaigns, nor would I answer the above words. I'm not gonna take a word. A senator assures himself of competitiveness. Hv. A senator has to respect it to me that I have not put myself in the occasional advertising campaigns of RUS. But I have said, Mr. President, and can say it again, that I don't believe we've reached the magic hour with the way RUS should be at a commercial market. I've even talked about it, since we've created a state-run theater, that perhaps a part of them should go to other advertisements. I realize the aggressor in the markets. Hv. Apparently, a senator has never heard me talk about RUSH before, given the way he expresses a lower viewpoint on this subject. In a talk and in a publication, I have said that there is nothing wrong with settling over and wondering exactly how RUS should be at the market. Nothing wrong with that. [[Up front.]] I'm asking all of us to remember not to get too involved with our concerns that are about how RUS works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u17	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, we're not supposed to be in too much trouble here. That's why I'm asking: A senator gathered with us who want to strengthen and support the independent media - no matter what the VOLV, let's wait on it only - but have the system's benefits and ensure that equality for all the media, that everyone sits at the same table, to the same protocol? Should we agree to adopt such support systems? Senator? I'd love to hear that because it's not exactly what this bill contains. Hv. A senator calls for us to answer why other nations are so occupied with it or to place so much emphasis on giving direct support to independent media, including witnessing to the northern countries. Then I'd like to ask who. Senator: How do all the North countries outside Iceland, all of them, even his fellow soldiers in Norway, Finland, Sweden, etc, have concluded that it is necessary that the media's government is not in competitive business with the private media, that there are no advertising in the state media? Why have all the North countries and, in fact, all Europe come to the conclusion that one of the reasons for creating and ensuring a natural and reasonably healthy platform for the independent media is that the state of the media business is not in direct competition for the main sources of income? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] All the states of the North, boy. A senator has reached this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u18	President. I want equal values when it comes to supporting systems in a way that all the media can apply. However, I believe in this as if it were a different measure of size. I think the little media needs more support than the big ones, so I think it's wise when such a system is made to see not just the head but the size, not the head count, but the small media needs more support. Why have the North countries reached the conclusion? A senator went over? Maybe that's the right conclusion, I don't know. Contrary to what it's like. A senator and some of the people who have come up against me seem to me to believe I don't have an opinion about the state of the ROV in a commercial market at all, but I don't think we should get it mixed up in this, not at all. Maybe you know why. A senator's means of spending on the state media in other countries Has the value of a radio charge in which the state medium has always slipped, but not in part, as it was in the past? Is there a higher proportion of support for the state media? I know why. A senator? Of course, he doesn't have to answer me any more than he wants. I'm wondering questions that can explain why the system is different. I can't draw the conclusion that some of the people here sound to me, that RUSU's post on a commercial market was all that mattered. Again, I ask: Why do other countries support the media, where state media are not in advertising markets? [[The president calls.]] Isn't there some other turn of events that overlooks us by focusing on the RuV?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u19	Mr. President. If I'd understood what I was doing. It is clear to a member of the Parliament that he believes that the media in Iceland should be supported by tax returns. We can agree on that. True, I don't want to go anywhere. Senator. I think it should be transparent and through the tax system, but let it go. But not everyone sits at the same table, that is the conclusion I found, if I understood why. A senator is correct, that he is a mathematical match. If there's any greatness anywhere, it's with the State Radio, but there's no state radio here. Why is that? A senator not with me in moving the environment of independent media at least Subscriptions, consistent with what happens in other countries when it comes to worth extra taxes? Should we join in? [[The president calls.]] We can do this right now in a new year, okay? A senator, and a lower value tax or even dissuade it, as it is in Denmark, from subscriptions to printing services and other subscriptions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u20	President. I'm willing to examine everything. I have even said that in conversation as a matter of course. A senator quoted as being held here 2018, if I recall correctly. I'm willing to examine everything that strengthens the media environment. Of course, I won't promise like a baboon something that I don't know what the financial consequences will be. I hope so. A senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, found the consequences of this worthwhile tax system. [[Up front.]] I'm willing to sit over it. Hv. A senator talks like the tax system has one thing going for everybody. Didn't we just agree to the step-by-step tax system the other day? It is widely known that even in the tax system there are steps, and the tax affects people according to economics and even companies by size. [[Up front.]] What's the difference, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]] And I'm sorry that I swim on my cell, what I've been saying about the advertising industry is that if we're going to cut our income, those who say against: Okay, are we going to make it up to them? If not, how much are we going to reduce the staff? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u21	I have to say, I think it's a bit of a special discussion. I can see from the discussion of what category. I think we can all agree, though, that the position of our private media is not good enough and that all of us want to do something to strengthen their status. But when I see a bill designed to strengthen their status, I have to be pretty sure, if I'm to agree, that there is a fall. Quickly looking, as it looks now, I'm pretty sure that in the same situation this bill will be little or no difference. That's my concern. I'm not going to repeat a lot of what men have said before, but I am amazed by the argument in this discussion that the state radio, which receives 5 billion from taxpayers, is overwhelming in advertising markets, and is competing there, does not affect private media, that it is unrelated to matters that will not be spoken of later. There's a completely ridiculous argument in my mind. This will not be torn apart. This cannot be torn apart, and in this context it does not mean that it is being supported by political parties, innovations, or books. In innovations and books editions, there's no super state business to compete with. There's no state book version, there's no state-of-the-art company. This is not how it is, and it cannot be excluded from the Kingdom News in this discussion about the possibility of personal media, that their environment is better and that the competitive environment is natural. [[Up front.]] We've got to get this together. Of course, I would have liked to see this so that we would have decided before this bill came up to review the role, organization and duties of the State TV, take it from a commercial market, or limit it to at least magazines and then wonder what you could do to strengthen or build up a normal environment for personal media. These media are competing with a giant corporation, and they will not be torn apart. Then there's another discussion that I've always wondered about and I'm still trying to understand why such opposition is to reorganize and cross the role and duties of a RUSU. Why must we never discuss that culture with others? I'm not talking about subtracting the support of the State, but it's something that other than government employees can do with this cultural and historical function and the Icelandic language. Why must they be Kingdom employees? I've been thinking about this a lot. I'm not recommending that RUSB disappear. I think all of these government media companies will disappear in the next few decades. In the end, taxpayers will not agree to pay billions of dollars in this kind of media. They will eventually turn it down, but it will take time. Even in Denmark, Danmark Radio has begun to reduce the extent of Danmark Radio and are just during the initial phase because taxpayers say: "Here and no farther. " I also think it's time for Iceland's taxpayers to say, "Here and no more." We'd like to have a medium in the country as a duty. That's why I don't think a competitive fund is a very stupid idea, that the state is strengthening and striving to share information that we think is essential for an Icelandic community. There is another discussion, though - I have nine minutes left. A senator, and he intends to spend them talking about the VG, which is an amazing retreat and thinks that Icelandic culture and tongue will disappear if RUSB is not in the current picture. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, it's not like that, and I think even culture will improve if it is published by people other than the government. Because I'm gonna be a short word, I'm just gonna say that I'm really worried about people. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm even more worried about VOLV. This has to come together and we're starting on the wrong end. I'd like to see here the bill on reorganization and its role, take it off a commercial market, see if we needed to do more to ensure a normal environment for our personal media. But they don't want to, they're just supposed to continue, they're going to make new bills for the taxpayers without knowing if they're going to be successful. I don't like it very much, and that's why it's very much in me. I believe, though, that if this bill is to be a law, it will immediately be a matter of taking the RuV out of a competitive market. I just have to believe that people do. I'm afraid, based on the way the Senate is composed, people will never agree to any change in RUS, and we'll be stuck with expenses of hundreds of millions to their own media. After this year, we will examine the position of private media and it will remain unchanged. The only difference is that in part the taxpayers pay the loss. That's the reality I'm afraid of. It would be very nice to have a top. Secretary of Social Affairs learned to whisper. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is important to learn to whisper because otherwise people will be tapped. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Flmrh.: What did you say?]] I only got caught in my talk, and I think I'm just talking about a social minister now. I don't know what to say. [[The point is, it's a lot of advertising there.]] Social Minister? [[Up front.]] Yeah, I was gonna talk about VG. I have expressed myself a lot about this bill in the media, both free and in VOLV, and I always come to the same conclusion. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] Time's up?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u22	It's directed to the president. A senator must stick to the material and give his talk. Time's running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u23	Thank you. I was thinking about using the last few minutes in a quiet mourning process, at most. President, over this bill. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think we're gonna let the taxpayers pay us back a lot of money and get nothing in return but sheer disaster. We are used to that, so I hope for it and trust in the highest power. Education minister that when these awful things are over, there will be a bill where people will make sure that the media market will not be too competitive, there will be a natural environment. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] If I believe that's what happens, maybe I'm a little less bored when I'm getting closer. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this speech, what I understood from it. Hv. A member of the body became very frequent about the fact that we were being supplied with material. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a tough guy. A senator is. One 12 years ago, the state radio was converted to an ohf, an official partner. Wait a minute. A senator to remember with me whether the employees of this public community still have the position of public employees inside this company. Hv. A senator spoke a little about the company. I'll share their concerns with them. The Senator that we have to do this bill agreed to open a government fund, that, in addition to the billions of dollars we already pay for the media, in a very small way, is now opening up a government fund. I'm asking why. A senator whether he fears like me that the 400 million now scheduled to be put into the so-called free media every year, minus the cost of one Supreme Court attorney and two accountants or vice versa, and one position to receive grant grant strength applications, will swell out, and will become considerably higher in a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u25	V.E.G. President. RUB staff do not have laws on the rights and duties of public employees. They are not government employees in that sense, but it belongs to the State. I'm just as worried as what I am. A senator because this bill is just the beginning and that the change will not benefit private media once a year or two has passed. It's not good enough, it won't change anything. We're setting up a system where three men in committees go over applications and share money. It's like when I was a child, some government officials decided who could move in with a car. We're there. And that's 2019, isn't it? It's a lot of people telling you they're supposed to get into modern times. We're always going somewhere far back. There is no time now when the government has and runs a media medium, it's just a past. No one would think of doing this right now. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] No, not a single man. It's an ancient example. I can fully appreciate that we are still strengthening some cultural material, but we do not have to do so by driving ourselves and having the media. I know I can't go on with this because some people think it's just gonna have to be like this. I don't even feel like talking about it, but it's ancient. When technology has become the way it is, all these media are everywhere, and who has become their own multicenter, we go on some sort of old system that calls out or someone named who decides what to do. It's perfectly crazy, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for these answers. I have to admit that we have come dangerously close to what is called the same but because we're discoloured -- but still then -- this may get out. I still agree with what. A senator, I agree with him that having a committee of three different kinds of human knowledge to go through granting strength applications makes me feel completely snooty. I can see people sitting over coffee once a month and writing in the Ovenian applications, the hour and the local newspaper Feyki of the Sheepclan, and, as the Bible says, it comes to judge the living and the death of the President. I agree with the senator. I think it's very dangerous. Where it is. A senator said that government employees are running things in the Top Search, I think of asking a question. A member of the body might feel that such a person is already a nice employee or contractor of RUS may threaten a revolution on community media the other day if a prospective nonpolitical radio driver was of some political color he does not like. This is a role for employees and employees. Up in the Top Search should have, i.e. to guide the management of the Agency and/or to threaten or praise violence if anything happens? How does the senator feel about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u27	V.E.G. President. This is so stupid it would be enough. I wondered what would have happened if an employee in any other partner but an ohf-mate had spoken like this. What do people think was the result? We know the consequences. That's why I feel like down below every block of the employee, even though in hf. If so, consider writing. That tells a lot about how this institution is in many ways. She's only on self-control, as I've said sometimes. It's like any other private firm that doesn't seem to be responsible to anyone. There is a danger in such an institution. It's incredibly presumptuous of an employee of VOLV to write like that. I know for certain that this would be the only thing anyone would ever get away with in anything other than a public partner. That is why I am very upset with the fact that this type of activity, which, of course, is not supposed to be a competition, is a part - time society. Making the Agency part-mates was merely agreeing that this company, with the advantage, would be allowed to compete with private media and no one would say anything. At all the other commercial markets in Iceland, people were totally crazy if someone was stronger in competition and had a head start. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by making a statement and a few questions. I'm going to claim that this bill is a time error. I'm gonna ask why they put it here. Now I miss not having the highest. Secretary of education in the hall, but I ask myself, after the discussion that has been conducted here tonight, who supports this bill? It is not to hear from the independents who have spoken here tonight that they are particularly interested in supporting this bill as it is available. Not a single candidate has been heard, so it seems that they are shy to comment on this matter. So I ask myself, " How did this bill get through the government? How did it get through the government groups? I can't see in my hand that this bill has the support. I think it's clear to everyone that there's probably not one other sector that has become as intense in time as in the media. In 1930, when the Kingdom News was founded, it was a wonderful step and an amazing idea, in fact, I don't remember that far back. But then I can go to rock, and I can remember a long time ago that I can remember the opening of the Kingdom Radio program in the fall of 1963 because the president of the United States then was shot to death. I also remember listening to that year on my 10-year birthday that Surtsey was created in almost a live broadcast on the same radio. In 1966 a television station, which was like a black/white video room at first, was opened. In 1976 a color TV was given. In 1985 men watched Live Aid - I don't know how to translate it, Mr. President, I'm sorry to blow it - live, not by the government of the press. In 1939, people from World War II told how it began and how it began, by listening to foreign radio stations, and by sharing what they heard with the people of the land. In 1991 we watched the Persian Gulf War begin live, actually through foreign stations. Now, Mr. President, it's here, the computer and the phone, my TV and my radio. I can listen to anything I can think of. If I want to hear a tremendous opera broadcast, I'll go to my computer. If I want to listen to something that's happening here and there in the world, when that happens, I go to my computer. Well, Mr. President, because my first chapter of this speech is on RUS, although the bill is not about that, we have a fiber optic on almost every farm in Iceland. Yet, this last week, without communication with the world for two days, three days in a distance of 300 miles [300 km] from Reykjavík - for a few days, Mr. President. Despite the fact that it would take one life, I'm afraid we've been lucky that this weather, including the weather, did not result in further damage. Because people were without communication. When I say this bill is a time error, I mean, I think it's frozen a certain condition, i.e. The situation we have now, the private media that we have now. And I'm sure it's true that once you've heard of a chance to get a scholarship in a state fund, you'll think that a few investors have raced in your cheek, they've been buying out the press and uniting, etc., probably to make sure they get a nice piece of the cake through these three fine men who're going to sit over some paper for the next few years and receive applications in this fund to set up. And I ask again, Mr President, are we going to freeze this situation? So I'll go back to those good talks as independents, many of them. Councilmen, have moved here tonight, they have said: It's impossible to have the State Radio on a commercial market. As we know it, it costs 5, billion to the state radio and then 2 billion more in advertising income. The question is, If The Kingdom Radio is to be pulled out of a commercial market to stimulate the influence of other media to support these advertising revenues, should the State Radio be improved by the 2 billion Kingdom Halls? If all of this gets divided, we'll continue, i.e. The budget, to pay as much as 5 billion dollars in VOLV directly, 2 billion that happen because the advertising revenues fall out, 400 million because of what we're going to pay for the free media so often, we're reaching 7 billion, Mr. President, which this nation is paying for its subscription to the media. Now I don't know about anyone else in this place, but that's what it's like to say one subscription, perhaps that's how hard it gets. And believe me, I'd love to give up my subscription to VOLV, I just can't, I can't. I can resign from the National Church, but I can't resign. I have to be there with a great deal of will. Perhaps that's why we middle-class people have made a suggestion, which is why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the son of Proppé, says that there is a possession of the carpenter Davíð the Oddsson of Oddd, but not much worse. I am grateful to him for pointing this out, and I think everyone knows what's going on here. A senator is a historian, and I believe him very well in this subject. But it doesn't change because it's a good idea. I think it's the right idea to say it's totally great. If we allow people to do that, exactly as we do with our parishes, we can, of course, leave them to other religions, I just think the best idea that we give people, i.e. The people, the public, have a chance to direct their fees to the media that their minds hold up to a certain extent so as not to kick their feet off the government radio at once. Even so, many surveys say, and the Kingdom broadcast has been very effective in upholding the amazing capacity of trust in it. Exactly this idea gives us proof of it, and the good people who work in RUS also get into the vein how much trust the Agency or the company and these fine staff are doing, and I think they're also very good. What I'm afraid of is that if we're getting trapped right now in the state of Iceland, we're going to keep back because some new people are going to have a good time on this market. This may be because evolution continues. A host, one man, and a computer is a subject, a blog is a news service. Since then, we still have the poor yet to be the false news that grows naturally in the absence of observation, etc. I loved to hear that, for example. ... fromnowwhat. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, that there was no mention of RUSV in the government covenant, and of course RU is not mentioned there. There is no mention of any unpleasantness in the government covenant, but it is just this narrow barrier to matters that are of no importance to us in order to remain seated. There's another confirmation. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister of education became a bit perplexing about his tongue. I was happy, of course, but I don't see the conditions placed in De-Collar 3. The bill for reimbursement of costs, terms for a·peʹk, that there are conditions for the promotion of Icelandic languages. I agree completely with the highest. A minister to the fact that one of the most important roles of the media, and especially of the flagship, is to honor the tongue, our language, not just because it is important for preservation but because these members, media officials, are teaching us all Icelandic every day. Unfortunately, Mr. President, there is no media in Iceland under that issue, and I'm not going to describe how many times you'll find yourself slanting your hair over the language, especially on the websites where the speed is high, there's the language, Mr. President, for the most embarrassing and the media to be the one who's supposed to be around the culture that's not going to work, but, unfortunately, it's not. And what might be the flagship or the chief flag in this? Yeah, it's Channel 1. I met a good man in the fall who is a loyal listener at Channel 1 and then came up for a discussion between us -- I say he's far from me in politics - this planned bill. He said he had made an informal survey of his listening to Channel 1 for the summer of the given time, a week, half a month or three weeks, and 52% of the material he listened to was repeated material, 52%. What may also be so bad, Mr. President, is that reading the annual bill of nuV is not a way of seeing how much a channel 1 costs, how much a channel 2 costs, how much TV costs. That's not possible. If we were thinking aloud and might be playing the State Radio down, for example. by allowing people to hire each part of the use fee, it would be very difficult for us to try to have some effect on this business if we do not know how it is combined. I have personally thought that unity between Channel 1 and 2 would be the right thing to do because it plays a cultural role. I've said this before in a sermon: To celebrate the concert of the Frogs is no less Jórunn than Viðar, half a century, or 70 years earlier. In itself, it is uncircumcised, as well as the materials that exist there, which are deacons. But I ask myself, " Do we really need to run a television station? ' For 1500 bucks, we can get the Norwegian material, which is showing a lot of Simanum. The state newsroom hasn't been fired at mine since just the TASS in Russia. So I ask myself, are we keeping the flagship in the same system as 1930 in 2020? I don't think so. Those who say that this case cannot be discussed without discussing VOLV are mistaken because, of course, it must be in the nature of that company's development will affect the development of the whole market, and we can't release part of the market unless we are sure of what we're going to do with the party that has a great deal about everybody else at this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister to congratulate you on being here with this bill. It took a lot of fighting, but not everyone likes the bill what it looks like. It has not been overlooked, however, that there are differing opinions on this matter among the political groups. I must admit that I myself have a problem with which foot I should step in these materials. As a general rule, I believe that working with a simple and good environment where taxes are low and companies are to be able to work on the market without any political exchange. But you can also wonder: " Is the media like any other company? They have a lot of corporate features. But there are other things they have. In addition to being an important cultural phenomenon and the importance of our language, the media are at least fourth power. More important, because of their importance for democratic discussions, it is also very important that they remain free and independent. I support culture, and I have short measures to support various cultures. You might wonder: " Is that why it is reasonable to support the media? I'm not completely convinced, but I realize that there is a reason to ask this question. We've changed our government in the event of a market failure, and then I can name the innovations we support by government action because we know how important it is and we know that research, technology, and innovation will not be fully practiced unless there's some state support and all the countries we're comparing with innovation, to create, in some way. [[Up front.]] And then there's a respectable president, screaming behind: the media too. Yes, in some cases the media are very short. But it's not so important too, is it? Senator, the press is living in a reasonably business environment? And isn't it the market problem we're describing when we worry about running the free media, the market as such, that something is broken in there? One of them is, of course, the fact that on the market there is a huge government - run business. In all other markets, we think it's undesirable. It has been suggested that the government covenant is indeed discussed with the media. There the government says it's going to improve the media work environment, e.g. ... witha review of the tax environment. In addition, in the government covenant, we are about to change the taxation of music, literature, and the media. This government has been efficient, and it has been designed to produce changes in taxation into music that concerns fossilized material. The books especially covered us, and then I always saw that we were looking at the tax environment primarily, but we ended up going another way after considering the matter quite carefully and extensively. It ended in some kind of sponsorship. So I understand where people are coming from when it comes to the importance of strengthening the free media, for, of course, free media are very important. We only know of all the world's developments today that the media play a key role, and it is also extremely important that the media have the ability to discuss the subject. I have to admit that I think I'm just--and now I'm not taking Iceland in this case, I'm just talking in general -- that we have too much not good enough media, even though we also live in some media that's pretty strong. Also, from today's discussion, I've been wondering a little why is it that all too few media are actually selling subscriptions in Iceland? I wondered, is there anything wrong with the media, these free magazines and free articles, and that kind of thing? We can see that some media are trying to sell access. But speaking of how I'm standing here in a particular problem with it in either foot I'm supposed to step in, I understand well where these ideas come from, and I accept the importance that we intervene in the developments that are taking place. But I'm also about to play a little key role. As a matter of fact, I wondered if we've gone the right way when we turned VOLV to hf. I'll just admit that I supported it at the time and all the discussions we had about government institutions and making them independent units as public societies. I wondered if it was a mistake. I think there's a reason to roll that up. But I made it clear that I feel that RUS plays an important role that the fourth cause in a democratic discussion. Besides being important from our cultural background, our language also plays a vital role in security. I'm sorry to say that I have failed to do so during the last days. I'll be aware of it, too, only when you travel around the country that it may be easier to get the Wave of the Wave, or K100, than the RUS, the Kingdom Press. I just don't understand how it is when the function of VOLV is important, so I believe that we need to take action. I can compliment the highest. Minister for being on the bill because it's been over for years. I admit that it is very easy to come up and criticize, but there are not very many people who have made a complete solution to what is best to do. It's certainly an attempt to do so. But I propose and expect that in the discussion of the bill we have here, the role of VOLV will also be wondered, how large the state media is at the market, and perhaps least how greedy he is for advertising. V.E.G. A minister has said that such factors can be addressed in a service contract with RUS. In fact, I would like to see it in the state radio law and feel that there will be a reason for this discussion. But I think it's a good thing for us to have this case, and we have an opportunity to give a detailed discussion of it on the committee, expecting that there will be some reviews on this subject and that we will take time to be good at it, because I think it is a key element in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u30	Mr. President. We're discussing a bill to correct a change in the media law, i.e. Support for building and sharing news and news sources, etc. The bill is running out of support for the private media. Why is it here at the Generals Hall? Simply because the unique situation of the media is extremely bad and has been in fact for a long time. Their situation, however, has deteriorated, especially in recent years, since more and more informers are choosing to use the second Internet, and the commercial funds are even to the foreign press. This has caused less media and many Icelandic media problems. Mr. President. There is no doubt that all of us want to have a variety of fables that are unique to the media. This, according to one authority, guarantees a variety of opinions and, as a result, promotes democracy. Over the past few years, we have seen a significant increase in printing mediums, magazines, and the bill shows that this income has been drawn up almost half of the current 13 years, since 2006, by means of a fixed price. So this problem is obvious to all of us. The objective of this bill is, therefore, to strengthen private media, news transfers, news programs, and national programs. News media have been particularly difficult in recent years for this reason. I remember the time, Mr. President, when I was living in the island, that there was a national news station called Eyja News published weekly and was filled with all kinds of material, news and reports, interviews, and more, but today this same medium is published every month. According to this bill, Mr. President, the medium will not meet, unchanged the criteria of the bill, for publishing days are required not to be less than 48 a year. Many of these local news services, the smaller ones, are not about to be given strength through the suggestions presented in this bill. That is, I think, no one objects to promoting the private media. Rather, there is only a difference of opinion about how it should be done. Mr. President. Here is where 400 million are distributed annually according to the criteria set by the bill. To be honest, I don't think it's gonna do much for this whole operation. Several media that meet this requirement will swallow this money. They have the power to meet the conditions there is. One is that of the low sum is a heavy system, a distribution committee with three high-payers and a complex application system. Candidates are to be submitted to all the books and indexes. It is not enough that these three committees should be overlooked but can also seek the expertise of selected experts in this field to give them advice on applying. I see myself, Mr. President, that the media is less powerful, e.g. The local news services are going to have some difficulty meeting these requirements because the office work is quite a bit of what I've seen in this bill. What I've been reading here is that there are a lot of demands on the input of data and deadlines and accounting data and all kinds of things. This needs to be repeated, for example, that is not unusual. It is not unusual for a person not to accept any shopping bags with data in them. The deportation board can seek expert opinion, as I said. Just because it's a bad bill, because that's what we're doing, and we've been talking a lot against the booth -- like others in fact. They're setting up a new committee, a new agency, with employees, offices, opening hours, records, databases, and all sorts of other things that are part of such devices - or should we say rather an institution? If we only turn to the State Radio, which is in fierce competition with all other national media on television, radio, and Web sites - direct competition. Every year, according to the information I have, about 5 billion of public money every year, and somewhere, RUS takes up to 2 billion commercial revenues every year. That's not enough, though. Time and again we hear about the business problems of this institution. On one occasion, the Agency resorted to selling property around the radio house to fix the operating position, since no sails can be drawn up there. They say, Mr. President, the State Radio to defend it has such a security role. How was that during the storm last week? The government radio had so completely forgotten its alleged public defense role, which is so intense that in a news broadcast, it was frequently referred to information on the Web sites, most of which were in the middle of the storm zone itself. Users, as we've heard of, e.g. In Hunish Lakes, they have described their anguish when, with only a battery radio running, listening for hours at the broadcasts of the public defense agency, which carried no news but repeatedly referred to the site that, as I said earlier, could not be found in the area. So the people who were waiting for an inexhaustible and heatlessness had no idea where the situation was located in their neighborhood, no idea of it. That's what the press was all about. No, Mr. President. That's where the State Radio fell on the test in his full-scale role, was to be a security valve in a public defence situation. Mr. President. I prefer to think of other ways to strengthen the private media. There are many ways to do this, e.g. is perhaps the easiest thing to do is drop worth of money on magazine subscriptions and magazines that have 11% worth of extras, from today to today; e.g. to start by decommissioning him. It's simple. It doesn't have to be a place to put an organization around it. It's just dropping that value down. Maybe it's too simple? It's a bit of a time error in my opinion, Mr. President, to make this kind of government development for the media. I don't think so. I'm afraid that, first of all, this will be a booth, i.e. The sponsoric system. For example, what's the price? holding out one office with three members of the committee? This amount may be 10% or 30%, this 400 million. I've seen numbers that make many people scratch their heads over the salary of various public employees who are doing these kind of wild jobs. I've seen them. I could dig them up if anyone would. I could dig up high numbers over the charges and pay given to those who have gone into such public service. I don't remember the cost of the report we just read the other day, the EEA report. It's pretty pretty pretty, it's thick, it's a hundred and some pages, I think it cost tens of millions. Those men were not in full - time service. Just this kind of idea I thought of all of a sudden. How much would it cost to make such a big move? That's what worries me. I think that's a legitimate concern. I'm worried that this 400 million ain't that much money when it comes out. I suppose the largest of the mediums are being given most of this, even though there's a maximum altitude of 50 million for each individual. They're gonna swallow it very fast, so fucking fast. And in their accounts, 50 million may not be that large. I'm concerned about the smaller media, local newscasts and the radio and television in the country and those who run less media. I'm worried that they'll then carry a rather sharp thing from the table. I had considered most of the things I had done. I've also wondered about 2. in the bill. It seems that in 2 gr. it is assumed that a minister has various sources. That's where I'm wondering about an exorcist. The secretary has authority there, according to my opinion at 2 Timothy 3: 1. g., in order to impair, as it says, the proportionate reimbursement [...] and to provide local media reimbursement [or set] further conditions for reimbursement. As I read this, I wondered about the exposé in this. It seems there's a minister assigned to have a little hand in the baloney, if we can say so, by the distribution of this fund. Is it realistic to assume that a minister will control it so much as it appears to be at 2 Timothy 3: 1? par.? I also wondered about the conditions for reimbursement at expense. This appears to be highly evaluable, as indicated, e.g. ... intheextend. The amount shown in the media should be varied and for the public in Iceland. How does it come to be appreciated? Divert? What measuring rod is going to be set when it comes to the committee's table? Will they rule out someone who doesn't have enough variety? Is this totally ecstatic? Then I make the last remark to this 48 days of publication, as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u31	A respectable president. There is no doubt that the situation of the commercial media on the market is difficult. In recent years, a major change has been made in their environment, so rather than give up on what was even the case, the struggle has always been difficult. She's always been heavy. I speak there in some experience, and I was director of the Advertising Department of Stopr 2 when we were in the air at the time, competing with the state's truth. Of course, we cannot avoid discussing his role when we consider how we will strengthen the market medium position. It is absolutely impossible to view this in some context different from that of our own. The change that has taken place in the variety of media services today naturally requires some sort of retrospective analysis of the role of the Kingdom News. Of course, every situation has changed so much that the role that the Kingdom News has played over over the years and the decades have changed. As the situation today is with this company, which has so much money to eat, has so much advantage over others, is guarding that advantage from many places. When it comes to the building and production of materials that are part of the competition, the national radio broadcast has a top priority. This is what everybody's going to know. We know this so well of the generals and see when we arrive at the Kingdom Radio headquarters and then at the headquarters of other sources of information on how the entire environment shows that it is on the move, an organization of enormous proportions and perhaps much more expensive in business than modern technology. In all of this, there would be good reason to reevaluate and reevaluate this role. For example, cultural roles have been referred to here. I'm not going to belittle it, I agree that it's very important to be cared for. It may not be unusual for the State to contribute to such a publication, to be responsible for such media communication, but is running a radio station like Channel 2 when we have even dozens of radio stations in our country, and Channel 2 just like many of them? Is that necessary? These are questions we should ask ourselves because so much of the city's tax money goes into this company's business that the amount laid to the foundation of the bill we are discussing is cut alone in relation to that position. So would financial contributions be more likely to be distributed in some way even to these free stations in order to build them up just as well as to play a cultural role? Surely we need to ask ourselves these questions at the same time when we are discussing strengthening the environment of the individual media. The security role has been changed substantially from that of the previous, and it has been established repeatedly in the discussion. We know this only from recent examples and experiences and perhaps even from the storm the other day. We can also review the events of natural disasters, such as when the Southland quakes were in their time. The other media, in turn, did much better in the field of information. In view of our experience, we need to look to the security role on a much larger scale. When affected by disasters, how will we make sure that people have access to the media? We can totally assume that we will see far more of them in the future and even much more serious than what we have seen in the past. How will we make sure that we can get information to people? There is also a need to go over this, and the rest of the media must be reached too. Then the media must integrate into this security network, so that it is even integrated at all stations. No doubt they will have to be paid for it. There is also the strength to live up to their operations. I suppose we'll see from the highest. Education minister of the procedures she intends to take on RUSU because I consider it a promise made to make to this case that we would be allowed to see a memo on these actions. RUSI is an unbreakable part of the case, but I would have wanted to do so much deeper. I would have liked to use this opportunity to look at it more seriously, not necessarily to close RUSH, but to re-enact the role of RUS. I think we need to do it, but not to take the RUS out of a commercial market. There are conflicting opinions about this in my class. I've been on this side of thinking that RUS should be at a commercial market, that VOLV is the important media that employers need to be able to use it to transmit messages to the public. However, it is very important that significant changes occur. RUSU has been so successful in advertising that it runs one of the largest advertising firms in the country, and this business even costs hundreds of millions of dollars a year. VOLUME since the release of the free media into the photon media, there have been tremendous efforts to sell, sometimes up to the point of using bullies on that market and using their superior positions. I mentioned an example back in the summer when RUS had the exclusive right to show off a big soccer match. Everyone who watches the lights today, television stations, knows that live broadcasts are the most valuable commercial commercials on TV commercials. PRISING with business friends who wanted to buy commercial time, they were obliged to buy bigger packages at other times. It is generally said on this market that RUS has dried up the advertising market, dried up what would otherwise have slipped into other media. It is unacceptable that the company uses their superior positions in this way. There's so many other things to deal with. I assume the Minister of Education will show us some suggestions on this as promised to follow this bill, suggestions on how we react to the prerogative position of RUS on the market. Our suggestions are simple. The objective is clear. We want to help promote the media in the country. Our goal in common is different, but the ways we want to go are different. In the Independence category, we have considered fixing the environment of these sources, so that we will reduce public spells, thus catalysing these companies to promote their activities, but not laying them heavy burdens on taxes, in order to hand them some money instead of which may not be enough. It was spoken of as controlling the size economists. In all the suggestions that have been discussed, some kind of roof is assumed that an individual medium could never get more than one specific amount. This is how the so - called size economy is taken into account. We want to go this way. We'd like to reduce market exposure to RUS by various means. There will never be a natural environment here unless there is no way. In fact, I think that in view of the trend that has taken place on this market in recent years, it is impossible to match the status of these signals, whether radio, television, printing media, or Internet services, so that they can compete on the same basis as the media that flood us on the Internet. It doesn't make sense for any Icelandic company to spend millions of dollars a year advertising to make a moneybook, but it can't be done anywhere else. You may advertise, not pay taxes and obligations to the Icelandic state, but the rest of the media, which are highly competitive about this medium. It's a complete time error, just the same as it was at the time with so many in the community. They weren't supposed to import color TVs or beer. We were not allowed to enter the modern world. I think maybe that's what it is. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son testified before this day that they were all over-supervised. We must face the reality of what we see. There's nothing we can do about this other than balance the competition all the way. It will only be a patch that will last for a short time to pump the city tax in the media. What if that doesn't work? We'll work out the environment. Let's act on the competitiveness of these major marketing parties and open the market so that the media competes in equal terms with their main competitors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. Parliaments for helpful discussions and comments received at the bill. One thing is clear, we agree that the environment of the unique media is a problem, and we are here to help support the environment. It's the bill list to correct the media law, No. 38/2011, with subsequent changes. I would like to review some of the points that have been discussed during the discussion. I miss what I'm doing. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's no longer here because one of the things he mentioned was Icelandic's standard and would not be specifically discussed in the bill. It can be explained. paritaprevir Þurstein Sæmundsson about 3rd. published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson has arrived to learn more about the way we are going to look out for our language. - About 3. says, with permission of the president: ▪ In accordance with the values set out in this chapter, it is conditional that the subject for the public in this country is the condition of the media. This means that the subject of the media is that of the main movement in Icelandic languages, languages, and sign language. According to Article 1. songs about the status of Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language, No. 61/2011, is Iceland's Icelandic national language and it's official in Iceland. According to 1st mg. 2.g. Its law should ensure that national language can be used in all areas of Iceland. This is stated in Article 5. the same law that states and rural societies are responsible for preserving and promoting the Icelandic language and should be used. In June 2019, at the General Parliament a resolution was adopted to promote Icelandic as an official case in Iceland. This is what I want to draw attention to the fact that we are truly strengthening the position of the language by presenting this bill. Another factor mentioned in the discussion is local or local media status. Then I'd like to draw attention to the fact that it is in pars. says, with permission of the president: ▪ The standard multicenter is a national, regional, neighborhood, or urban medium that has predominantly a local document that appeals mainly to users associated with the distribution of the medium. Don't apply the same rules for the state media as for the rest of the media. We make the exception so that they can meet these requirements because we realize that they have a very important role. On page 18. 18 says, with permission from the President: As per 2 mg, the standard media is the exception of an e- team. This article will be published in the following article. To inform the United States of Congress, the European Parliament is presented in terms of the conditions for reimbursement of costs, by permission of the President: The amount shown in the media should be varied and intended for the public in Iceland. We'd especially like to accept that the local media meets these criteria so that the E- force is not relevant. The concern of members of Congress who mentioned the lack of support for local media is unfounded. A number of cases were also noted. paritaprevir Karl Gauti that we would set up a new institution. That's not right, we're gonna have a special distribution committee, and that's where president and vice president are, but this is not a new agency. The cost has been estimated as one value not to be the only institution to be said here, but also reason to worry about it. A respectable president. I think it's a pleasure that we've come forward with this bill. It's going to the General and Education Committee at the end of these discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize various tax and tax laws. This bill suggests a variety of changes. I'm going to discuss some details on the unique subject of the bill, but maybe they're not going to be considered in the same sequence as they are in the bill. First, I would like to mention measures associated with double punishment. The bill suggests that in the Treaty on income taxes, on tax returns, and on the Treaty on the local payment of public pay payments, legal requirements will be passed on in temporary terms that the tax authorities should not add the stress of reimbursed tax companies or repay taxes if the tax case due to the causes of reimbursement has been referred to in terms of income tax laws or equivalent laws on tax remuneration and public pay. The motion is not based on the idea that national initiatives in terms of tax law-authorization are considered to be the opposite of the taxpaying process by the tax authorities. It is confirmed by the Supreme Court that this is not so, as judged by No. 283/2016, but the purpose of the sentence is to prevent the tolerated possibility from leading to uncertainty over more cases than already being made to re-established by tax advisers during the permanent changes and reforms that will be established. So these matters have been considered in the administration system, change of arrangements, and while working on the proposals for that subject, I think it is proper to propose to the council on this preliminary principle that this arrangement will be applied in the meantime. I have some suggestions on this subject for the spring that I hope will eliminate the uncertainty that has come into existence on these subjects. Next thing I'd like to say, there's a suggestion to pay on a company that has limited tax rights in this country, there's no market payment on Icelandic stock and stock markets. Double tax agreements that have been made with other countries to prevent double taxation of income contain various provisions that are given according to taxation rights on income that would otherwise be taxed here. If a two-fold tax agreement claims that the foreign state owns the taxation rights, according to the incident, to meet the conditions, to apply for annuity payment on a local taxpayer. Clearly, this arrangement produces small incomes into the state's budget, but it makes it necessary for those with limited tax obligations to do business with Icelandic stock. The tax obligation of the taxpayers under income tax laws remains unchanged, despite the fact that local pay will no longer be available. I'd like to mention this point that the bill that I'm about to review is limited to the Icelandic stock and stock letters, but I'd like to say that there may be a closer opinion that there's a reason to go further, and I'm stressing my will to cooperate with the committee to get information to the Parliament on that subject. This may include, if other financial contributions are not looked at, such as, for example. bonds, prevent the U.S. Member States'potential to gain funding from outside if the form is to publish a bond written on the market so that international investors are expected to participate in such an tender discharge. These factors I think should take a closer look, though the bill goes no further than taking up stock and stock bonds. Third, I'd like to talk about the deduction of interest fees for mixed financial initiatives. The bill suggests that tax treatments of so-called mixed financial gains will be modified and clearly stated in income tax laws that have been paid by such sources, they should be deducted. Substitution from taxable revenues is suggested by paying interest rather than by calculated interest, the shock of growth in the case of financial failures'terms a warrant for a publisher to fall on one-sided from interest payment. In the case of financial gains that growth allows for certain conditions to be met, they will first be profitable when conditions for their payment are met. Then I come to the law of income taxation that covers the limitation of interest rates. The law has set time limits on the authority's licenses to reduce taxable interest costs and losses due to loans with partners up to 100 million. The requirement, though, has been unambiguous and has been considered to exceed the total budget, depending on the principle. This has not been seen to be the case with the first 100 million stocks and losses to be the exception of interest costs, but only if interest costs are less than 100 million. K. and can lead to extreme peripheral effects. Hence, the change is suggested that the recovery of interest costs and declines are limited to what is more than 100 million. K. but this should help prevent the peripheral effects. Next, I'd like to introduce a change in the day of stress and a pastime to restore legalization to the same profile as the release of the October/November monthly instead of September/oktober as currently available. The tax laws on the core number is increasing from year to year and is increasing in both professionals and head of state taxies each year. In 2018, the main premise for the pressures on lawmakers was to get earlier the financial sizes needed to be used. Already, a large proportion of the taxpayers are already exposed at the start of June and that 60-470 percent of total income taxation agencies have already arrived at the beginning of August. Along with this adjustment proposal, it is suggested that an obligatory period will be replaced by one month for three months at this time. However, it is always possible to request changes with the given application to the head of the Treaty not to be passed within a court case of any cause. However, it is suggested that the amount of time the governor has to issue charges, in the case of both individuals and lawyers, be extended from two months to three months. Much more charges would still be paid in the first two months of the period, but extending the time of the lawsuit allows more time for problems in accordance with administrative regulations. This brings us to the timelines for the adjustment. The bill suggests that in terms of income tax laws, there will be an added provision for the reimbursement of a tax partner or taxpayer who has remained uninterrupted with taxpayers and who is taxed by the couple as a result of a study taken by the taxpayer as well as from the beginning of the year when an investigation began on the tax divorce. Tax research does not often begin until years have passed the tax returns that they are concerned with and are often time - consuming. So it would be impossible to implement a reimbursement on the basis of them if extra time could not be used according to income tax laws, including in case of cataplexy. The reason for this proposal is the decision by the head tax Committee No. 22/209, but for the taxpayer's decision, there was also a secondary change in the taxation of a spouse or partners on the basis of a law on taxation of married couples and partners. It is not fair or reasonable to permit a marriage to be broken down in such a way as to benefit a mate or a partner. At the same time, there is uncertainty as to how money should be reimbursed where such income should be considered as a income from a higher income. Then I'll be making a personal discount. The bill suggests changes in legal requirements for the local pay of public remuneration with the objective of stopping further use of personal discounts and after events supporting the use of more than domestics and evaluating due local pay. The rationale for the change is that there has been a measure of abuse of a personal discount in a local pay year, which may create considerable discomfort for the individual during a stress year. The manager is required to contribute his annual tax returns along with the dissociatives, and my next explanation is given. In this case, this subject is about the obligation of the operator to contribute according to his annual tax returns as well as the dissociatives and explanations. The annual bill is not expected to include a section of the annual bill, so it is paradoxed to require the disunitions according to the requirements of annual bills in income tax laws. However, since the splitter normally contains basic information for understanding annual accounts and later tax transfers, it is necessary to proceed without reference to a law on accounting and billing. The bill suggests changes in the specificity of income taxation shapes following review of XIII. the section of the law in connection with a new bill to legalize public taxes and pay which is also submitted to this legislature council. It is suggested that if you have a deadline on a day or a day of rest off, the next active day will be changed to one day. It is also suggested that older regulations be put away in the law on the responsibility of foreign taxpayers but on the responsibility given in the new legal requirements. This arrangement is then proposed to explain the responsibility of a third person responsible for paying taxes. At the same time, it is suggested to add a paragraph that those responsible for paying taxes are also responsible for the payment of farm interest, cost and stress laid on the main debt under the laws on public pay. The bill also suggests that on income tax laws there will be a new suit which will give the head of state tax ads a clear warrant to collect on the request of child care that is collected here on the basis of a contract that Iceland has made with other countries. It is a requirement that the United States have a national right and a law committed itself to accept the contract, taking into account the law on a mission. These are then proposed to make changes in the bill on the merit tax laws aimed at strengthening the implementation of the regulations. It is thus suggested that laws be canceled that the head of the head of the tax be able to provide access to a minimum of one year from electronic sources on the cost tax report. The change does not completely rule out paper reporting, but the purpose is to increase electronics. Then a change in the law's regulations requiring that the head of the tax should investigate the valuable tax returns and correct them if the tax is not legal. In view of the surveillance of the head of the state tax and the work done by the tax president and the tax investigator, it is considered appropriate to adapt these requirements. In addition, proposals are made to eliminate the obligation of the head of state taxation to restrict monitoring to the reports where taxation is considered to be higher than tax. By doing so, the office has increased the scope to determine for itself whether reports need further attention. Finally it is suggested that the head of state tax be delayed to provide reports in which taxation is considered to be higher than taxation would be extended from 21 days to 30 days, particularly in order to allow the office to have increased distances to complete within the timeliness of the analysis of complex and important issues. Next time, I'll be entering the deduction rights of foreign experts. There is a change in the provision of income taxation that deals with foreign experts'extraction rights from income within the first three years of employment recruitment. The source is under some conditions, and among them it is condition that the foreign expert has not been living or settled in this country for five years before he began his work here. The requirement has led to a degree of discrimination depending on the time of the year when the foreign expert is in the job and the disparagement is applied. It is suggested that wording be changed in the way that the foreign expert has not been placed or attached in this country during the next 60 months of a continuous period before its start in this country, except for busa or household stability in the last three months of that period. Next, I come to see that in the bill there are two changes in the law on the extra income of the state fund for collections pay for the services of the job rights and related rights. The first change will be made to add the job name of a health critic and will be printed on licenses and certificates as a result of the labour name, in accordance with Regulation No. 640/2019 with the qualifications for education, rights, and related health experts. By the Regulation, the name of the Icelandic medical team is changed to the Fégology of Health Experts and the job name of medical writers to turn into medical critics. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It'll wake up a couple of cheers in the side room, but that's the way it is. In accordance with Regulation No. 630/2019 with the qualifications for education, rights, and the duties of headphones and the conditions for having a permit. The rules include the legalization of the profession, and they have the only right to call themselves an anthropologist and serve as such in a country that has been granted the permission of a surgeon. Finally, in the bill, there is the necessary suggestion to correct a few of the laws on income taxes and not to include changes in materials. As I turned back at the beginning of my speech, the bill's suggestions are varied, and the same can be said about the evaluation of their influence. It is not good to estimate the impact of changes in interest of interest payments due to mixed financial gains on the income of the state funds. However, it is reasonable to assume that some firms use this option, and that the government fund may be of approximately one year. 300 million or up to 1 billion, if these measures are common, they will be replaced. Changes due to limitation of interest costs have a negative effect on the income of the budget, but the impact on delivery is not considered to be significant. Change proposals that include the exception of parties which have limited tax responsibilities in Iceland from local pay of Icelandic stock markets and stock bonds could lead to up to 60 million. K. negative effects on government funds in place of payment, but the amount corresponding is expected to be paid under the pressures of public pay. Other legal modifications proposed in the bill are not expected to have a significant effect on the survival of a government fund without the law. According to this, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u34	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize the description of the stocks offered in a general message or take up business on an orderly market. The bill's on the roof. 627 and No. 451. The aim of the legislation is to ensure investment protection and effectiveness of markets while promoting capital markets within the European Economic Area by paying access to enterprises for funding, especially SMEs. The bill was employed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs by means of assistance to the Commission and includes the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. Of the adaptations negotiated by the uptake of the EU contract, 2017/1129 are given national legislation. This Regulation discusses a description to be published when offering a stock oer in the general market or taking a business account in a structured market and in the folddown of Directive 2003/71/EC. A description is a synonym for documents or documents to be published because of the general stock oer or the purchase form for business on a structured market. The main focus of the bill is the legalisation of the Regulation and the necessary rules, such as the monitoring of the regulations of the bill, the reporting of the Rapporteurs for information collection, the inclusion of the decision of the EFTA and EFTA Management Board, judicial hearings for the police, the protection of the employee for the reporting of activities and licences to set regulations and Seurdal Bank of Iceland. Today, the terms of the stock exchange laws apply, No. 108/2007, of the general stock tenders and of the business market mails. The bill suggests that there will be new overall laws on the description of the stocks and that the appropriate terms of the stock exchange will be removed. The main changes using the current description protocol can be summed up as follows: First, if its total value in Icelandic dollars is less than 1 million euros, the Regulation does not apply to the tender stock market, but in earlier form, it was more than 100,000 euros. In these Member States it is possible to exclude markets for stocks up to a value of 8 million euro from duty for publication. The bill assumes that this warrant will be fully valid, but in the current law, there are 5 million euros in Icelandic. The stock market is worth between 1 million and 8 million euros in the United States will be reported to the FDA. Secondly, the Regulation requires a new and simpler kind of description, called the European Development Report, which is aimed at reducing the requirements for information in descriptions due to the small version of an enterprise's unscheduled version, or an advertisement of small and medium-sized enterprises registered in the growth market. Third, the arrangement for later editions of stocks is simplified and the process for frequent publishers being cut short. In that case, the European Union will publish its website and provide free access to any information confirmed by the European Commission in the EEA area. The bill expects the Commission to oversee the confirmation of descriptions and the operation of the law. The FEC will have standard control documents, such as requiring more information from publishers and temporarily stopping or forbidding the general stock market or taking a job in an orderly market as a result of a suspicion of violation against the law's regulations, as well as that that it will be authorized to enforce laws against anyone who violates the regulations of the Regulation. In this respect, the bill will provide information for the European Observation Agency and its institutions within the EEA and for the decision-making centres of the EFTA Management Board here and for the EFTA Court. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will influence the publishers of stocks and will lead to fewer people making descriptions. The changes will make it easier for SMEs to get capitals within the EEA. No significant effects on administrative matters are expected or the State's expenses are increased by the law. Thus it can be said that it is important that this bill be carried out to support the financial market in this country, particularly for SMEs, and not to belittle the commitment of Iceland under the EEA Convention. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u35	It was the weekend when news was received. On Tuesday, December 10, the Helgi of Seljan, a former general, had died at the National Hospital in Fos Sow, nearly 86 years old. The Helgi of Selena Seljan's Friðriksson was born on January 15, 1934. His parents were Friðrik Árnason, a laborer there, and his wife, Elínborg Kristín, the Þorláksdóttir of a housewife. Just a few months old, Jóhann the Helgi of Björnsson, a farmer of the Seljathmus in Rails, and his wife, Jóhanna Helga, the Benediktsdóttir of the mistress of the house, were brought up in that town and took away his name from it. A Helgi ended a teacher's test at 19 years of age and occurred when a teacher in his East Homeside area first in the Pack of Fausts for two years, then moved to the Children's School for Youth at the Pension of Rage. He was appointed principal there in 1962, and he served until he was elected to the council. The Helgi Seljan was a young member of a socialist series, already serving in the 1956 General election, in the South Mary County, only 22 years old, and was generally high on the East American Common Community list. He was an emissary for 12 years. The Helgi of Seljan became the district Parliament of 1971, after a fine success of his party in the district that summer and later the U.S.A., when the United States of America became the largest group in the district of 1978. A Helgi did not seek the highest standards in its ranks, although it was offered to him but rather chose the general. A Helgi continued at the Council until 1987 when he decided not to seek reelection. He was always in the upper ward, the president of the city of 1979-1983, but he was often vice president there and in the united General. In February 1958 and later in the fall of 1969, the site of a replacement took the Helgi twice. A Helgi was the president of the former senators in that the longest time since his first death in that hall was almost 62 years, then, in fact, a substitute. He was sitting in total at 20 legislatures. The Helgi was Seljan from the beginning of its council, a spokesman for the social and welfare of his party, and was sitting on committees that were available to us in the seminaries. Many of the progresses of disabled ones and invalids came along, and others gave him a discussion and observation at the council. At the same time, he was very interested in the interests of his voters and the district, so that he cared for them. He spent a major part of his career in the Saver's Bank Board and in the management of the Aggressor Fund. When the Helgi Seljan decided to abandon Congress, he became a social worker at the Iceland's Microcollar Association and later its manager. He sat in many committees and advice dealing with matters that were desperate and wrote much about their interests on paper. Then, too, a Helgi worked hard with older citizens. Alcohol and abstinence were one of Helgi's greatest struggles all along. When he was in school, he set himself up for the lead, working that ideal with self - sacrificing work and writing for the rest of his life. A Helgi was easy to cultivate, sing, and entertain. This was true of members, employees of the council, and indeed many of the people of the country. Few of them were members of nursing homes who enjoyed their friends Helgi John's, and Karvel Pálmason did not count for themselves, during and after their conduct, to come and lift people's spirits with songs and pleasures. A Helgi was very well served as a member of the Parliament for its joyful temper, honesty, and purity in cooperation, as well as for hard work and hard work in the Senate. I would not say that he was one of the most popular and most popular senators in his day, and he went against a party. It says something about the man we remember here in this hall today. I ask a council to remember Helgi Seljan, former council member, by getting out of bed. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u36	Borist has received a letter from a foreign minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a covering query. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, and on trinkets. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u37	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from a greater part of the welfare committee on a bill for the Law on Housing and Mobilization Agency. The committee took in a number of visitors and received reviews from several sources. I'd like to state at the outset that this bill was sent for a brief three-week review and was discussed in detail on the committee. The bill suggests that the camp loan fund will be divided up and that projects that are involved in the publishing of the conditional bank accounts, the older loans, and the borrowing funds will be in the hands of the fund that receives the name IL. There will be a new agency, a Homing and Engineer's Office, and it will move on to the work of the Agency and to the part of the camp loans that will be separated from the IL Fund. They are recommended to set up Housing Funds that receive the property and rights of the apartment loans that will not be left in the IL Fund. The role of Homing Fund must be funded on loans and the share of the operations of the House and Manicults Agency that handle tasks recommended in housing laws, No. 44/1998. There will be a housing fund in the management of the new House and Human Resources Agency. The purpose of the replacement of the camp loan fund is to include to reduce the government's risk because of increased payments at the apartment loan fund and to enable the Agency to take better care of their legal projects by fully understanding the other activities of the fund from financial management and property. The objective of the cohesion is amongst other things. to promote the administration, policy development and implementation of housing and human activities here on the land, to sharpen the construction management and management of the government of the public through integration of projects and to increase cooperation with rural areas and other housing stakeholders. At the same time as the bill, the financial and economic minister proposed a bill on the processing of property and the debt of ILs due to the accumulated problem of the Subcommittee budget, which is being discussed with the Economic and Business Committee. Among the views responsible for the cohesion of the institutions, one institution has a comprehensive view of the legalities of housing and construction. The Agency will deal with many different projects, the surveillance role of the construction centre, electrical security and fire defenses, as well as the management and implementation of housing and repairs. As mentioned in the overview of this series of articles, the bill's contract expressed concern that the network's integration would lead to less emphasis on burning and monitoring the construction and electrical security. The concern was also expressed during the discussion of the Committee. In this regard, the majority of the workers showed that a group assigned to explore the fairness of the cohesion of the strains were looking for, among others, at the same time. to see if there is any reason to divide up the Agency and to bring specific monitoring factors to other institutions under the Department of Social Affairs. Was in this relationship specifically looking to the workforce. The results of the task force were that it was the most reasonable thing for all the legal projects of the Competent Agency to be brought into a united Homing House and Civilization Institute. The majority agree that, with a united organisation, you can aim for increased efficiency in the management of the above classes. A general view of the tribe of paint allows governments to shape future policies, work plans, and coordinate the administration of housing and construction practices. It also provides an important step in the central intelligence and structural structure of the structure of the work system by more efficient means than before. In order for the additive effects of harmony to be achieved, it is important that we use good cooperation. It must be emphasized that the knowledge available within the Agency will move into a new institution and that the economic situation resulting from harmony will not be at the expense of safety. The review of the Committee included up to the increased work of the fire department, including Due to the increased number of tourists, increased fire protection and increased response to major events, car accidents, more extensive plant fires, and increased demand for firemen to perform. At that time, it was noted that many rural communities did not set up fire - safety programs. A greater proportion of them stress that a House and Manicult Institute has the ability to force it to do so. The greater part is considered to be a reason to respond to the observation given in the Competent Agency's review that in accordance with 2 mg/day, the role of the Homic and Human Impairment Agency is set aside. 1st par. and the 1st issue. 2. g., if it is not mentioned that the Agency should handle electrically controlled tasks in the field of electricity security. Therefore, why not suggest that the Agency do this in a specific way? Then the majority of the material will also agree with the changes proposed by the Agency for Article 3. The bill, in particular, refers to the fix of timber products and the handling of fires and protection against natural fires. Thinks that the greater part is also correct, as suggested by the Human Invasion Institute, that the reference to firehouse activity may be dismissed, as it should be supported by fire prevention laws. Then the larger portion points to 2 mg. 1st par. and 1st sentence 1st. 2.g. The bill agrees. So add some more to 2nd. 1st par. ... goout. In the 15th. The bill deals with living quarters and building ports. A housing database is suggested to keep track of the data and information on housing. They say that the Agency should conduct an electronic construction portal used by rural society in the production of structural coverts and construction administrations, as well as the management of information on construction and construction projects throughout the country. The meetings and reviews described views that a legal obligation to use electronic architecture could be burdensome for rural communities, as well as for companies who have developed document systems for construction agents. Other commentators described the lack of success in composing the construction agent's structure and that information on construction status was not readily available in one place. By means of an electronic architectural puzzle, the Agency could better coordinate a process, cooperate with rural society and consult with stakeholders in the Agency's field. The greater part encourages the Department of Social Affairs and the United House and Manicults Agency to take good care of the production of the structural puzzle, including with appropriate assistance to rural society for the induction of electronic management. The economist points out that according to Article 6. Act on Iceland's Habitat and Public Economic Report, No. 163/2007, the government that collects data and maintains files or databases for its activities will provide the Habitat with information from those they want for its own economy and without charge. The Agency suggests that the Agency should provide data and information from the databases without a fee. The greater part points out that the legislation on the Habitat of Iceland and the official economic reporting is clear that the Habitat should provide the information it would like to obtain for its economic reporting free of charge, including information from housing and construction care. Therefore, the majority do not consider it to be a reason why this information should be given, without charge, in the law of Housing and Mobilization. The review of the Industrial Association reveals concern that together with the institutions, there may be some doubts about the ways of the government decision taken by the new agency. The majority of the data shows that there are no changes to the current legislation. In this connection, the majority point to 20. administrative therapy which, in fact, says: that, at the release of the government decision, advise on charges at its disposal, sufficiency and charges, as well as on which to direct charges. Therefore, the role of those involved in the matter should not be unsure about their charges. In addition, the majority contributes to a number of technical changes that do not require explanations. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristjánsdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. Signý That's a good story for a Sissy. There's only one thing that I wonder about at this short time, and it's how the situation is now with the social, child - care minister and his Ministry to hold on to the seminary and get into it this huge project that is supposed to be a financial gain, and hopefully it will be most of the time at hand. We're talking about electrical security that we haven't had much of a chance to see now how it's worked out. We're talking about fire control. Have there been any experts in the area? How is the Ministry's position today to carry out this new challenge?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. These are the cases of the Ministry, the Agency of Human Rights, made up of the Environment Ministry last year or early this year. I suppose they'll be kept around them in the way that laws and regulations require that they be natural and important. The house was in the ministry, so I expect to be kept out of it in the best way I can choose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm primarily referring to the Agency. At a council meeting, we attended a few weeks ago by the fire department and the ambulance doctors who simply told us that there was no professional knowledge in the Ministry to keep an eye on the affairs of the CREEP Agency. I can at least tell you what. A senator about it - because I believe him, for the record he had. Therefore, one might wonder, " Should it not have been the first thing to make sure that, before we began to unite, a human working organization, as important as it is? ' It's often that I've found myself building the antenna before the foundation is built.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u41	A respectable president. Yes, as a member of the Committee, we sensed that there was some concern in this series regarding the firemen, fire control, and so forth. We agree here. These projects have been handled naturally by a human working agency and by the noses of the Committee that it needs to be built and that these classes be held in the best way possible. I just trust it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for review of the Committee's opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee. I come up here because of an example material that appeared in Iceland's World Bank on this bill for the Law on Housekeeping and Civilization Institute. it is said, with the permission of a president to aim for the public to have access to safe and eco-friendly housing at an affordable price and in accordance with individual needs, regardless of the economy or habitat. It made Iceland's Secret Bank comment on this, that the word "no matter what the economy is and the residence was too open and vague, unnecessaryly open, and could be understood that creditors' ability should not matter. I want to hear what's going on. That's what a senator's been doing and whether or not the other part of him has wondered about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, we became aware of it and read this natural review. But they were so general concerns that we didn't necessarily think it was a reason to deal with this, because it's a little wide. This may not be a total cinder of opinion. At least we had to think that we didn't have to deal with this for a while. Then there was the natural issue for the Economic and Business Committee, as discussed here, in terms of this fund and I know that this concern was also welded there. I don't know if it was handled, but we didn't think it was a reason to take this into our opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm concerned with the position of a greater part of the welfare committee in this regard because there are, for one thing, two prime radios in the Generals treatment of this exchange at the Subcommittee Fund. In my opinion, it is irresponsible for the majority of the welfare committee to refer to another committee for the treatment rather than to the comments of the Bank of Iceland, which, of course, is not a stakeholder but a professional in this field. It is irresponsible not to respond to such indications from Iceland's Secret Bank on this matter, not on the other subject. I was asking who. A member of the Council of Iceland's Office on this particular matter. The committee says that this phrase should be independent of the economy, whether an apartment can be overemphasis, too extensive, that it can cause damage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u45	A respectable president. Is it causing damage? It wasn't that we necessarily took our stand for it, but it's just a question of how to squeeze it so that it could be met. There is now a minority opinion inside, where there is some change and there is a need to deal with these matters. I think it's a bit narrow, and I don't know if there would be any results in this. At any rate, the management of the Committee on the matter has not been clear on how to handle this, but we feel that it is possible to do so in general on the bill, that this does not necessarily need to be treated in the way the lesser part suggests. At any rate, we did not find that to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u46	President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, an authority on the development of structural software, whether or not the greater part has discussed the importance of being a member of the state's software. I ask about the discussion that has taken place in the Senate Hall, e.g. in the unprepared request to the highest level. The secretary of finance, where it was discussed in the context of Orri and the huge cost to the taxpayers and to the state when it comes to paying the government for the development or development of a software that is so owned by the company that develops the software instead of belonging to the State. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this has been discussed and why this is not guaranteed in view of the Supreme Court. A financial minister joined in this anxiety and said that it is important to consider the future of this branch office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This came up and was discussed within the rest of the section. It's natural to have the government run this software. Whether he needed to be owned was not necessarily the best, since perhaps this is done by an invitation and the most efficient way to go. If you turn the question around, are you sure we always have the best software, if it's the government? We decided not to take sides, but the government would handle the business and be naturally bound to the law to seek the best ways of it, but it would not necessarily make sure that it would be the best and most practical software if it belonged to the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u48	President. The fact that the software was on government property did not have to prevent some invitation to work was shown during this unprepared question period. V.E.G. In fact, a financial minister said that there is a danger that the State is almost caught in business with the people who are seeking to develop the software and who are its owners. He says, under the permission of a president: ▪ This means that breaking up in that business and looking for something else can become insurmountable. V.E.G. A financial minister has agreed that this needs to be examined because it is obvious that the current arrangement with which we have been paying for the development of software costs taxpayers a lot of money. I don't think it's being handled, so I don't want to stop it or at least has a discussion about how we're going to do this in the future before we start spending a huge amount of money developing new software without having dealt with how we're going to avoid repeating Orra.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u49	A respectable president. Also, it is not addressed here that the State is actually forbidden to possess this software, so I suppose if a secretary of finance has spoken of the most efficient means of searching, whether by possession of this software, running it, and offering it out or something, nothing is being taken for it. [[Up front.]] I trust this institution will look for the best way for technology and practicality for the role the software should play.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u50	A respectable president. We're in the middle of a Homeland Institute and Human Resource Institute, and I'd like to ask you why. A senator's concern about the fact that this matter is being done too quickly is not determined. It's in my opinion large mails, e.g. In connection with the fire defenses, such as it seems to be, according to what you have heard from those who have already known, that you have a lot of money, and not in the best condition you should have. But the other thing I'm more worried about is that they're not paying in security charges and other fees that should be paid to these institutions. I'm also concerned that Social Affairs is not the right place for, for example, the right place to do this. Fireproofs. I'm asking why. A senator doesn't agree with me that there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not worried that something is wrong or that there's something that isn't proven safe enough for us. This matter has naturally been in great preparation and has come a long way, as shown by the committee's review of the matter, that both the Enforcement Institute and the Congregation Book Bank were going to have to be done and must be completed now. The case received three weeks of notice, and we received a number of reports, so we got a number of visitors to work as fast and as fast as we could. I don't think any of this is gonna work out. But we just guarantee it and trust it, because this case has been prepared for months within the Ministry and between these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. They were worried, and they mentioned in a committee study that this was not the place for this institution. But there's something else I'm more worried about, since I kind of feel we're floating asleep to faucet, and there's burning protection. True, there is concern in the majority of committees, e.g. has to do with plant fires. I think that's a huge mail there, where all nations seem to have floundered asleep to faucet, not to be awake enough about how fireworks are affected. We've seen it since we've seen it in Sweden, and we've seen it all over the world. What I'm worried about in such a flubet, and at the Department of Social Affairs, is that something so forgotten. We are not doing anything or doing anything in these matters, we seem to be completely asleep. We can take the Valley of Skrara, for example. It doesn't look like anything about this, and that's why I'm worried about these things in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u53	A respectable president. These concerns came into the committee and were tore up there, and we agree with them in a committee party. We worry about these matters, and we sharpen a new organization to keep their arms tight. A decision on where this issue should be taken was earlier when the matter was being prepared within the Ministry and for others during the procedure was made, as it was shown in a request for a more acceptable monitoring factor. So we did not necessarily go to work to find out specifically when the decision was made. But we really care, and I agree. A senator that there must be a very tight grip on these factors, such as. There are other areas where this is a major concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u54	Mr. President. I recommend my share of welfare committees with an amendment on bill for Homic and Human Invasion Act. The smaller section severely criticizes the management of the government that was involved in making a contribution. On July 15, 2018, the government was published in consultation with a bill that ended a period of notice on August 13, 2019. There were seven reviews, but the bill does not indicate that they were taken into account. In spite of the above, the bill was not measured until November 11th. A number of reports came with the Commission, but the official narrative process ended on December 5th. Therefore, the committee could not respond adequately to all comments, calling all the parties to the committee for which they had reason. A minority also believes that the majority of the committee did not give up the case in a reasonable way, taking into account professional reports that were given to the committee on a significant point. In its review, Iceland's Secret Bank proposed a word - change of the 3rd Language of 1st. 2.g. The bill. The review says that using the law on public access to a place that seems unnecessaryly open and may be understood by the president's permission, that borrowers' financial ability should not matter with the decision to lend money. As a reminder of this comment, it suggests a change according to Iceland's Federal Bank, so that instead of the words 'independent economics and dwellings' to the 3rd issue of 1 mg. 2.g. come: with regard to economy and residence. In my opinion, the bill concluded too much of the new organisation's housing, and the report indicates that the cost of human activities has been stressed, including the costs of the Agency's activities. under fire protection and electrical control. Among other things, there was concern over the role of the Bruns School, where there was a lack of vision, tests that were out - of - date, and school studies were not assessed into a recognized system. Then the funds paid in construction and security would not be being returned to the Agency's activities. The European Union of Fire and Medical Transporters, Iceland's Acquisition Society, and Sammoor all pointed out that the importance of the safety element would not be put to the fore. This is a reminder, and these statements require careful consideration. This helps to remind us of the law of regulations of the 15th century. questions about electronic architecture arise. The possession of the portal is not recommended in the bill or in the members of the Committee. Also, it is not clear whether countries and communities will need access to the electronic portal. The bill's report on the Agency's payment rights in Article 15. not to be expected to collect services for the projects involved in the Agency's coordination and cooperation role in rural areas. Such an explanation, however, does not provide adequate support to the currency arrangement itself, causing doubt as to whether the electronic port will need to be paid for access. In view of these observations, the Commission suggests the adjustment of the Agency's implementation of a database in accordance with the laws of construction. All of the smaller welfare committees support the Committee's opinion and the proposed changes made and previously covered, i.e. that, instead of the words '-independent economics, and put them into the 3rd proverb 1st. 2.g. come: with regard to economy and residence. Second, the lesser part contributes to the second sentence of verse 15. Notes: The Agency shall also implement a counter-refecter in accordance with the regulations of construction. Those who sign this committee are the one that stands, the head of the welfare committee, Árnadóttir Kolbömnadóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee to Representation, agrees with this. Although there were a number of other factors involved in handling the matter on the committee, I would like to take a closer look at the comments that the lesser part makes. First, regarding the comments of the Federal Bank, the need to address the concerns of the actual administration of a Homological and Human Resource Institute to provide a public route to a place whatever the economy may be. It is an institution to care for loans and, of course, if borrowing is not important to the decision of housekeeping, we have come into a situation that I think is beyond our control. There must be a clear account of the House Fund in order to call for information on loan capacity. However, when the lawgiver has decided to legalize, housing should be granted regardless of the economy, the right to borrow regardless of the economy. And how do governments and more things go wrong? to deny loans to an individual when there is such clear orders in the law of Housing and Mobilization? These instructions are that regardless of the economy, the individual should be paid for or at least borrowing. There's no record of this possibility and nothing about it. This certainly pointed to Iceland's Secret Bank, and we take part in the smaller section in order to handle the case as follows this afternoon or tomorrow, as we fully submit a new proposal according to what is stated in Iceland's Pentateuch. When Iceland's Secret Bank gives such tips, it is highly irresponsible not to take their account. It's clear what's going on. There are no other views behind Iceland's Secret Bank. The fact that the committee has not had the opportunity to do this properly because of lack of time can cause great damage, and we have seen it, and we are, rather, more fortunately, that it goes down, the state's fund, with less than 6 billion people this year who have to be paid off because of a mismanagement in the General Assembly Hall of Congress. That's serious. It is a serious problem when the Allied Congress does not have enough time to handle the current situation. It's not just two organizations being knocked together. The other part I wanted to enter is the security and monitoring factor. This was made clear in the case of the representatives of the Agency for the Commission that they felt that the discussion was not really satisfactory. Although there had been some committee at work and such, they felt that their policy was very one - sided. It had just been decided, and the Agency had to adjust to it - and have been doing it because they realized early, as noted, that it was impossible to go back. But not only that, but, for example, it is uncomfortable to see such things as this. in the review of the Substitution of the matter, an eight-count list of the objectives of this institution, combined with these two strains, and none of these figures, none of these comments apply to two-thirds of the activities of the Agency. There seems to be the emphasis for those who have been most eager to continue this union, which I'm in my nature no conflict that may be practical and clever and all that, but that's the kind of work I'm worried about. Two thirds of the activities of the Agency seem to land somewhere in a drawer, fall between a ship and a dock. The safety, fire protection, monitoring factors are not taken into account enough, etc. It is the building program that will be left out when it comes to the premises. The building show will be an elbow child. This was already the factor, during the transfer, because it also was observed by the Department of Social Affairs that not only one status value from the Environment and Resource Ministry came in to the Department of Social Services moving the premises earlier in the year, not one rank, but the staff for which they were reassigning more projects. This is not a minor project. Then you wonder how a minister will see it coming. How do we see the more part that the staff that comes away from working under the committee's burden to introduce one thing after another - and when we ask them how they're just saying that they're running and running - and how do governments and Ministers feel that this Ministry should be able to carry on with this huge and important group of subjects, without making a big mistake? Because I'm worried that we're making a certain mistake with this and we'll have to set things straight for the next few years after we're out of trouble. I don't think so, Mr. President, especially good practice, and that's why I can't agree with that when more of the committee handles it in this way. A smaller proportion of welfare committees suggest the changes previously introduced and just hope that more of the council will see the sun when it comes to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for history. I'd like to come in on a few things. First of all, it's the adjustment proposals made by the lesser part. I think the change the memory part makes about the 3rd matter of 1st. 2.g. A great tribulation, and I can't say that I share in all the concerns expressed by both the Council Bank and the senator's opinion. If the article is all read, the article will say: ▪ The Agency should contribute to the balance of housing conditions, etc. and: 'Engines must be aimed to...' So, these are not non-employable regulations. On the other hand, by pushing it down to the minority, that, instead of saying that a non-dependent economy and living-infested economy and saying, "Yes, no, you belong somewhere else than in these hot areas, you live in cold areas, and we don't have to lend you any credit, nor do we have to take any thought of you. I don't see that it is in any better place when looking at the whole article because the whole article is with two, if not three, warnings about the ultimate role. Hence, there may be no need to worry about this provision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I disagree with him about being overcrowded, as this is a loan agency and therefore I agree with what is stated in Iceland's Secret Bank, which also says that in a bill with the bill it is stated that the Ministry of Social Affairs is in preparation for further changes in the legal requirements on the terms of loans [...] which are expected in that bill to be measured as a license to set the credit criteria for the Regulation. That is why, in view of the fact that Iceland's Secret Bank, and its smaller part agree, it is reasonable to conclude that the objective and role of the Homing and Human Industries will be clear enough to improve because of the regulations planned later for them to be strong enough. This is a bill for a loan clinic. How vital that we do well! This is not like some government policy declaration for something in general. It is a legal bill for a loan agency, so it is important that this is accurate to avoid what I called loss, to avoid raising a court of law, where the common citizen will insist on having his rights according to the words of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to say later that I'd like to introduce the senator to see if in the second adjustment of the memory part is not getting a little bit much of the structural mystery by, for example, actually. take away the obligation that will follow the legislation on rural areas to use this database, use this port. The role of the building foundation and the building puzzle is actually taken away because there is no longer any separation in the law. Or what? I don't know if I'm getting the wrong idea. I feel that this again is a bit of a tribulation. As a result, the role of the Homing Agency and the concern that the Senator would perform would seem to me, at least, to me. to 19th. .. with the review of both projects and the role of the Homing and Mobilization Agency, it is now a very long list of projects and no reason to assume that these institutions will continue to carry out their tasks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. No, I don't think that it's in any way being pulled out of the function of the portal or the purpose of it, not at all. The Agency is referred to as a research agency in accordance with the regulations of construction. There is a reference to construction, reference to other laws, so I don't think there's any need to worry that it's in any way a tooth extraction or preventing the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u59	V.E.G. President. I just want to have a place to talk to. Chairman of the welfare committee for the release of this case. Now I am an emissary officer on a welfare committee and as such, I agree to this minority party, especially because of the criticism shown there on the payoff itself. In view of this as far from being the only case here for the payment of the Hall, during the final days for a intermission that gets so quick, despite having been over a considerable period of government consultation and then having been for a long time in therapy, I would like to use this opportunity here rather than spending time on certain points that were very clear in a talk. The head of this minority party, to consider how this arrangement, which is now becoming two years old, has been conducted, whether we are achieving the results of the initial decision, or whether it is possible that it is possible to be done, which we considered to be a lot of, that this confidentiality, as important as positive, as it can be when it is used, is taking an unusual time for the council to work, so that they can handle it successfully. It's actually coming over and over again from the Commission, having a longer period of consultation, longer treatment after the statements made, even significant changes, and then scheduled to go through the council treatments and payments of this chamber. I'd like to hear some views. The head of welfare committees on this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Yes, this way of speaking - it was certainly a good thing to do, to communicate with the sufers, and possibly to have something to say, as well as that that which is transparent so that everyone could observe any reviews and opinions. On the other hand, it has been very intense -- now I'm not a senior president here, I'm just started, just over the threshold -- in the past two years cases entering the conservancy, coming in here, and those who post reviews into their consultations feel that there is a possibility that there has been a review and no need to do it again. What has also happened, even in large institutions, the European Union of rural society, or other big ones, is believed to be a matter being discussed at the council, the same principle as previously in consultation. It's turning into a real bastard. It has to be said right now. At times, after making big changes in our conversations, things are all too late to come into our home. At times, the matter may not have been taken into account in consultation, but it is all too late and it needs to be given all its legal treatment. It's all there is to it, and it's all a walk about whether or not the reviews of the discussion follow-up, whether they're published, which isn't always. As a result, there is actually a fog in the way, what has happened, which consultations have taken place, and what reports have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u61	Mr. President. We share these concerns with a measure of dissatisfaction by how this has been accomplished in many ways. So it must be the project ahead of you to get it out of order so that it will actually improve. I wholeheartedly agree with these examples. A senator noted that early reporters did not recognize these changes or on this double round. As an example in this particular case, I can mention at a meeting of the Committee, from the one who thought that most of the activities of the Competent Agency were placed overboard in this union, that they had tried, as they put it, to arrive at earlier levels. Somehow it was polarized over it, and then they stopped. It is as if they didn't realize that there was another treatment here, basically the therapy that mattered. By the time it was on the surface, the time was simply out, and it could not be done because of the problem. I just wanted to put it right here that I'll agree that it can't be a bastard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I agree that this is not supposed to be a bastard, but I'm afraid it's showing up as a certain bastard. Because we are now discussing situations that are in a state of crisis. The welfare committee, of course, is in trouble there. This is not the only case that came all too late from a minister. Rather, it is three cases required to be settled before the annual meeting and even the fourth issue that was addressed to the committee, which is a date, but it was clear to everyone that before the New Year's Eve. They received a variety of discussions. Some got to hang in there for a week, but they're still making some changes right after 2nd. and the one standing here doesn't know what's going to happen. These are the tactics the government is offering us, and of course, it is very sad that both the General and the Organization will have to know what is going on at one time. [[The president calls.]] This is the lawgiver, and we have to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u63	A respectable president. There are some big words and a little drama around the process. Some things are positive, bastard, bad job, or late in. But I would like to ask. A senator: Was it? Did the welfare committee fail to do this? We took 25 guests, and there were plenty of reviews. Was the matter a bad thing done under control. A senator? We've agreed that this case is late entering. That's not up to us. The case was a full review process. What do you think? A senator? She wants to say that the case has been premeditated. A senator, did he get a bad job out of the Committee? Could we do it much better? Is this a positive issue, or is it a bastard? What kind of accident is going on? It was shown that there would be a better level of monitoring and security involved in the MET. But I can do it. A senator did not agree that both those who came from the Human Rights Institute and Housekeeping Institute or Substitution were going to agree that this case would be adjourned and worked hard and that there would be a lot of work going on in preparation for this unity?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to answer and hear where she is leading the discussion - so that when she did this, the chairman did not do his job. The welfare committee. Then you should point out that when a case is developed in the Committee, it is usually an equal attempt to wait for references before calling in the client. This was not the case, for there was no time to do so, but the committee immediately began calling in the economists who may have been known to have something to say on the subject, i.e. The Ministry to introduce the case and then the representatives of the institutions who are now being added to one. You're right to point. A member of the council, in his consultation with the government, received seven comments on this matter, but to the council, I think, 30. There's quite a difference. When the narrative session ends December 5, which is over a week ago, it is clear that, at the end of the last week of the council, where a meeting was held last week, there is no time to recall anyone who gives the headlines in this case. That's the way it was. And because there would have been such reviews just in the final meters, it would have been better for itself, for the professionalism of the Allied people, to win the case longer. It's just that way. These are not the tactics we should offer, neither the personnel of the institutions nor the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u65	A respectable president. I'm not trying to weigh management at all. A member of the Committee. In fact, under her shaken control, we have managed to win this case very well in spite of a small amount of time, which we fully agreed to be short. But the worry that was wooded - it's common, I understand, I've only sat as long as I've had time. A member of the council, to receive visitors, even though the deadline is not yet up. I think we've managed to win this thing pretty well, pointing out the flaws and concerns that were shown in the reviews and the arrivals. We signed up and respected the work that has been done between these institutions about the harmony, and I think and I hope there will be no accidents along the way, at least not related to the work that has been carried out on the committee, which I think was just fine. I thank the head of the welfare committee for quick and effective work and guidance in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. I agree with my hopes, and I hope this works out well, wishing it's going well. But I'd feel better if the Allied Congress of Iceland and the government, when they come in with bills, were not taking such a risk with important organizations, leaving it in our hands to hope that somehow things will go, hope they'll do okay and that they won't get hurt. I'd feel better if we were to build the knots so that we could be pretty sure things wouldn't go any worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u67	Mr. President. At the beginning of this statement, I said in my speech that I was concerned that the professional element would not be sufficiently considered for us together. Then I specifically spoke of Human Fortress Society. I must say, Mr. President, I feel that both members of the Committee feel particularly smaller and, in part, that these concerns have been confirmed. It says in the majority opinion, by permission of the president: The bill expressed concern that the network's integration would lead to less emphasis on burning and monitoring the construction and electrical security. The concern was also expressed by the Committee's discussion. It is clear that the committee has been concerned about this, and if you look at only the memory of the section, he will say more strongly in this respect and refer specifically to the reports of the Landline of Fire and Medical Transporters, Iceland's Engine Association and Containment, which all said that there would be a risk of not doing enough of the importance of the security programme. A reminder is given to those views, and these comments require careful consideration. This is my knowledge, Mr. President, very serious comments made by professionals. I stress that these matters are discussed by a professional and are deeply concerned about them. We've been talking about how the institutions should not be united in government financial and financial support, but the professional element must not be allowed to suffer. Like what? A senator and chairman of the smaller section, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, specifically mentioned them in the case of a leading authority. A senator hopes that it will not be taking any chances and that it will be all right, etc. It is very argumentative that my knowledge is to present this matter in the eyes of a person's hoping that he will be all right now because this is a very important safety issue and must not take any chances in that subject. Only with regard to the management procedures to follow. V.E.G. With no evidence has a minister shown that the unity of these institutions will result in significant financial savings. V.E.G. Minister said even. that in itself this would not be the goal. I also believe that it is absolutely necessary to be completely clear regarding the Agency, which is under this very important category, not to be given any discount on this important element in the cohesion process. You wonder, Mr. President, if it would have been more reasonable to consider ways to combine all our security issues with one institution into the role model of the Norwegians and Sweden, for example, where all tasks are subject to the safety of the citizens and the ability to react to society, as it were, are under the same hat. These include prevention, prophylaxis, monitoring, such as Fire management, electrical watch, disaster control, hazardous substances, public security and emergency response, whether it would have been more inclined to combine all these important factors with one institution, but not in this way. You are deeply concerned that your security factors are not getting enough attention in a new institution. I don't see how the important part of the Agency's work is to contribute to the stability of a housing market. I can't quite get that connection. Of course, there's a connection there. It's good to simplify the system. I support my whole mind to the simple system around construction projects. It is all too complicated, so to speak. It's all important, and it's been discussed here in a talk that the building work is way too heavy and it's cost of construction, so it's important to simplify it, and I support it. If so, then, of course, it is a cause for rejoicing. But I'm still worried about the professional thing, as I mentioned. This is one of the most important projects of the Agency's research projects to move to an apartment loan fund and to this joint institution. To me, this looks a little bit like a camp loan fund is taking over an Enforcement Agency. I have the authority to say that many in the Agency are not comfortable with how this case has been conducted and that there has been insufficient consultation. In addition, it is necessary to know exactly which advice was involved, and I hope that there has been a discussion within the committee. I think it's necessary to get that out of this discussion. I thought it was interesting that came out of nowhere. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir that it wasn't time to call everyone for the committee. I feel that there's a lot of concern about a group of subjects that's such an important safety factor. I think it's only necessary to get clear answers that this will lead to better security for the city. That's what's most important. We know that it has been discussed here as soon as possible, and we are getting too tired. That's what I'm worried about, Mr. President. We need a report on this subject. Who really was the motivation for this unity? The minister has mentioned in the matter of increasing the force of engagement in the seminary, and then I would like to ask, "Is there a mild stroke in these matters, in particular, being subject to the Civilization Agency, important security issues there? " I really don't think so. This organization is handling very important safety matters, and therefore it is necessary to know what it is in the work of the Competent Agency as the highest level of activity. A minister feels that it is necessary to improve and whether he feels that the safety factor will be better when he cooperates. Mr. President. I'm not going to keep this for a while, but there are issues in this in my opinion that depend on the security factor, and that's why I have questions about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u68	V.E.G. President. In winter, I asked a few questions to the social and child - care minister who was protecting things related to the bill being discussed here. The bill also includes... Consider the role of the Agency. What I had even. Whether the construction facility would be entering a quality field that would be better off in the hands of a construction manager was a concern. So I asked a few questions about building puzzles and surveying pads. One of them, with permission from the President, is as follows: ▪ When did the work of an electronic architectural puzzle and assessment panel begin? The answer was: ▪ In accordance with the information provided by the Management Board, work in the need analysis of the structural puzzle began during 2011-2012 with the Norwegian partners from Estonia and Sweden. Then, in 2012, the Agency's e - mail office, called a construction puzzle, began working on the construction and construction projects. In 2015 a cooperative agreement was made with the awareness of the Agency's services (minor pages) and in 2017 the foundation was laid as a structural mystery. Strategies due to structural puzzles were won over 2016-2017 and generally implemented at the start of 2018. Electrication of structural data is always improved, and it is necessary to be accessible and preserved at the same site. Nevertheless, it is dangerous for an institution to be involved in the construction of a building system. This is why a large number of companies are developing in continuous development. The building parade mentioned in this bill doesn't belong here. I also asked the following questions in the fall, with the permission of a president: ▪ How, on the other hand, was the decision to build structural instruments and the assessment panel taken? Were there opportunities and if not, how was the decision to negotiate with suppliers for the project? The answer tells you: ▪ In accordance with government policies on increased electronic administrations, as well as the law on monuments, No. 160/2010, on an electronic construction database, the Agency set up a structural puzzle designed to serve as an electronic database on construction and construction projects throughout the country, such as the 5th quarter of 1 mg. Section 5. and 61rd pars. I'm going to fix the monuments. In 2010, prior to the start of the Human Fortression Institute, the user of the Bruna Research Institute has been issued by an electrical security database called an electrical security port. In that outing, the most favorable offer came from the software firm an intellectual. Building a puzzle uses the same basic systems and electrical security instruments, as well as much of the special work that had already been done for them. In agreement with the Kingdom Hall, it was not considered practical to provide the structural problem, and thus do not use solutions that were present because of the development of central electrical security systems. Thus, when a building puzzle began to be started, Annexes were made on the Communication Convention. Interestingly, this is where the bike was being invented. A large number of systems in the countries around us are doing the same job. It would likely have been most successful to search the developing countries around us. Already there are structures in the construction industry that come from the outside. But let's just get out of the question: It has been used by fire - defense servers for some time. The assessment panel of the Agency was determined to be based on the basis of the burn prevention assessment program, thus reducing the development costs of the assessment by the Agency. Experience from the introduction of the burn protection program has also been significant in the induction of the assessmentapps of the Agency. The Agency's watchbook is based on ratings that are part of the Manning Agency's study manuals. Therefore, the watchpoint is an electronic version of the ratings providing electronic data for further analysis. I'd like to suggest that my research manuals are living documents. They can vary from company to company, but everyone makes those minimum demands, and standard of such books is always at risk of standard procedures. I asked more questions, including... what experts would have been bought to advise, and this no doubt raises questions. The conclusion, however, is that according to the minister's response, the cost of construction is over 100 million, but the cost is about 3 million. Since the cost of the app is a small part of the cost but also the share that an enterprise can provide itself would have been natural that the Agency could itself determine the quality systems they used, as long as they met minimal demands, that they could use the apps they seemed to be using. It is not obvious who will eventually have to pay for these systems, but it is quite clear that someone will pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u69	Madam President. I'd like to enter one of the bill's articles, but in verse 15. The role of the new agency is laid up in its building structure and building care. It says, by permission of the president: The management centre shall implement an electronic database, a housing database, which includes data and housing information. The Agency shall also operate on electronic construction instruments that are to be used by rural society in the construction of the building permits and implementing the construction administrations, as well as on the information on construction and construction projects throughout the country. In this regard, the construction process is being adjusted to produce a building cover. There will now be a application for a new agency, but the role of a local construction representative will probably remain unchanged, but they have the law to include. The role of the safety and final handling. However, other parts of the construction department are important, a construction officer needs to be able to intervene at any time. What is yet to be explained is: Who is responsible for the future failures? Is it a new agency we're discussing here, or is it the construction managers themselves? What will be their responsibility after the arrest of the law? In the 15th. It is stated that the Housing and Mobilisation Office should operate an electronic database, a central housing database that includes a variety of data and information on these issues. In addition, the Housing and Manatism Agency shall operate on an electronic architecture puzzle used by rural society to produce a building cover and implement and hold on to information as I have learned from earlier times. Here I would like to point out that a structural puzzle is based on an opinion manual, which, of course, should meet minimum requirements. I wondered, " Is the duty of a construction manager to use a inferior system when there are a lot of better systems available? ' These systems are shown, and I think I've heard that there are at least some of them. Four such systems. In this regard, it should be noted that electrical security has to do with the administration of electricity security measures, which is entirely in the hands of the Agency. The architecture theory, or so - called the Agency's database, is a completely different species of legality and focuses mainly on collecting data from the administrations of the established construction agents, each of which is an independent control system and many already with an application site. All other data are collected into a structural puzzle and, on the other hand, an electrical security device. The society's somebody. If these infrastructure systems have been built, why has construction instruments already cost over 100 million, as noted earlier in today's case? paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson? It's not over yet, and then you can ask yourself: " Was it really a matter of reviewing how well electrical security systems were being replaced by this building mystery? Can these things be harmonized? In my opinion, it would have been normal to offer work on construction puzzles, as was done with the electrical security mystery of the day. There are many questions that arise. Why is e.g. The fire crew selling software services? It was only close. Is it specialized in that area? Is this part separated from the fireman's second operation, according to the principles of competition? There are many questions, especially who are responsible in the past. I'd like to quote a review received at the bill on this issue, by permission of a president: It is not a legal function for the Agency to create a central portal where a building permit can be applied electronically. The members of the seminary are members of the construction team and their communities, and they are not obliged and may not even be allowed to offer a building permit via the Cedric Enforcer's Board. This is what Ingibjörg Halldórsdóttir, former lawyer for the Manning Institute, wrote in a letter to the Agency, a day. March 6, 2018, on behalf of their candidate, Ajour Iceland. In other words, it is necessary to be clear where this administration is being made. It should be clear who should have this legal role. There are other sources of reviews, e.g. From the review of the Industrial Association, which says otherwise, by permission of Presidents: However, the SI should be able to think that it is even right to go beyond what is here in order to further increase efficiency and perspective in the seminary. In this context, there are organizational matters, closely related to housing and activities, that are at the hands of the Ministry of State and the Organization, but to housing and to-dos of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is true that organizational matters are within the same ministry as humanitarians and are made powerful by the Ministry of Residents. In addition, it would be preferable to examine the combined effects of increased cooperation between other public institutions serving in this category, e.g. Organization and National Records There'd be other factors, e.g. The legal and legal elements of firefighters in international airports, such as Cheflavík. Are they supposed to be a place in this process? Another question that I've wondered about, and we've talked a lot about is, are we really going to create a new Orra system? Although we share with two people in it, we eventually have considerable money if we contemplate the operation of such a system and what Orri has cost the State so far. Finally, I will say, as many have spoken of before me, that this matter has been taken for a short time. If I recall correctly, it was just as if we could not receive more guests. The welfare committee had come out of time. So we can certainly criticize all this process, we did not get enough time on the committee, and in particular, we can mention that there has hardly been enough time to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the speech. I would like to take a closer look at what the senator presented in his talk, i.e. Section 15. The bill. It speaks of a building structure and a building problem that not only members of this market have called for, people in construction markets and construction projects, but also the rural communities. Hv. A senator stands up to an adjustment proposal that, in my opinion, will completely pull his teeth out of this structural puzzle, i.e. that there are somewhere and electronically available the data needed to make plans, so that governments can plan ahead with how to manage these cases in the country, including factors such as what is needed at any given time to plan large structure in the country, whether the State needs to contribute, etc. I feel that taking the powder to the rest of the second verse 15 gr. is totally getting my teeth out of this idea. That's why I'd like to ask. A member of Parliament: Is the senator really worried about the local society and various executives in these matters unnecessary, that there is no need to wonder what is happening on this whole market, and that there is evidence of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u71	Thank you. A senator for the record. About 15. ... andI know that industrialists and those who manage these things have called for some consistent means or uniformly to have more clarity on things. It's all well and good, and I understand it, but I don't agree that there's only one way to go. There is a need to make something from which more than 100 million have already been spent. We know there are other roads, other foundations that can be used even now. That's why I say we're creating a possible new Orra system. It was set up and created a foundation system, but we know that there are plenty of other systems that can be used. This has cost me, and I'm sure it will cost too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u72	Mr. President. It is absolutely true that the senator has a hell to guard against them. Let's hope we learn in the administration, but I just want to remind you of what's been lenty, at least In the capital area of the community, rather than having uniform foundations and uniform information, construction agents and in some cases traders are driving around construction areas in Reykjavík and holding hands with what is going on. That's the best information we have today about what's going on on on this market. It's an unacceptable arrangement, and there's no way for the rurals, state authority or other executives to build a decision-making and plan on something like that. That's absolutely impossible. The Senator will tell you that money has gone into this structural puzzle. Yes, indeed, some money has gone into it and will have no doubt done so, but the financial resources in which there is no real - life plan, no information that humans can build before starting a project, would include even greater cost of sacrifice. It's still harder for everyone, and we don't want to see any kind of hollow out of unnecessary projects. We're not interested in either of the extremes, that we're stuck with a lot of apartments on the other hand, because we haven't been aware that they were missing, or that we're stuck with a lot of apartments that managers have gone out into, unfortunately, with the consequences we've known all too well in this community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u73	Thank you. A senator once again. We agree that we need a common database, it's clear, but just like that. A senator said that earlier there are examples to guard against them. In this regard, I'd like to recall that we are in advance with this bill to give one party a head advantage over another. That's what I'm criticizing. Why are we building a system again when we know that there are already some systems that can fulfill this role and may not even have to cost so much? Why are they afraid to go to an invitation? Why is this not the case? This reminds me a little of the discussion of the U.S. International Hospital's equal pay status when the National Hospital decided to make as much wage as possible instead of using what is available, as everyone else uses, and cost at least 300 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u74	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for a law on Homing and Civilization Institute. I'm sorry, but I have to agree with the voices that have been heard here, but I also apologize for not keeping a close eye on this matter. The pace was great, and this is a huge project. It is forgotten to participate in the treatment of what may be the most important factor in the whole bill. On page 18. 7 on the bill are listed as the work of Homing and Managing Institutes and 4th will be responsible for the access. One of the Agency's tasks is to handle the bioavailability, e.g. The disabled. I'd like to point to the survival profile of December 16th, which, in fact, says: quote, with permission of the president: As to the activities of the new Housing House and Managing Agency, the bill in 319 states: 4th the absolute bioavailability. The bill doesn't explain any more. Survival, MEND society and the WHO have long requested to establish a surveillance of the bioavailability of disabled persons. This has not been the case. Therefore, all you can see is that the discussed bill is not working properly in the work of the new agency. Therefore, it is essential that the welfare committee handles this approach as a bioavailability issue and at least Explain in the context of this bill. It is also essential that new structures not be built and put into use without full access to everyone! This letter also shows that a new service core is being built, such as. baths on Lake Saturday, in urban pay, and in Húsavík, where access is lacking. These are new projects. I think it was in Húsavík that I saw how the bioavailability for the disabled was arranged. It was really cool, it all worked out like a great design and facility, and all you could imagine was that it was all set out according to standards and rights. But when faced with a test, it was all wrong. Highs were not right, and they weren't broad either. It was designed from a view of beauty, not using it in mind. It sucks to think that construction is taken out and agreed that it looks like it's a access to the disabled, but it's not. It's only that because it looks so beautiful, it must work. It's minimal when men perform this kind of thing, they're supposed to work. This is made clear in the account of self - survival, quoted by the North Council construction officer's reply, by permission of the president: ▪ Reimulated some of the revenues that come into the company. It should be noted that the water supply is a private business not owned by public authorities. Marine baths' work permit is granted on the basis of a Regulation for bathing in nature No. 460/2015 The same architect may have written on the plans of the sailors and granted them a building permit... According to Survival Survival, it is turning the parts on their heads and delaying that everyone, including motorists, can enjoy the sailors as much as any other. These indications are of serious concern and should be considered. I will follow them, however this matter angers. I am, in fact, even more inclined to believe that Homeland and Human Resources should be an expert, that the Agency should be built very well and that all the income collected into security and surveillance systems will be paid to the relevant organisation. I can't understand that it can't be guaranteed when we secure committees like a human committee and a media board of money running at hundreds of millions where there are no lives, but here they are at stake. This is where the burn issues are, and as a result, we should make sure that enough monitoring is done. It tells you that something is wrong if this is the way the surveillance works, as it did in the middle of nowhere. An officer of the council before, that they should drive through the town, and that they should be counted as building. It's scary. You ask them, "How's the check today?" There we need to get an answer from the institution, the Human Invasion Organization, on how to monitor. I've also pointed out some kind of burns that I'm really worried about. We seem to be following in the footsteps of the nations around us, who are not concerned about fire defenses, e.g. Because of the risk of plant fires that have troved all out of the country. Looks like we're not going to learn something. We just shrug off our shoulders and think, " Nothing's happening, we're so northeast, and it's so wet in here that it can't start. ' I'm sure at some point, the Swedes have thought the same thing, but they've probably stopped thinking that way for a long time. We have the responsibility to learn from this and to promote this aspect, as I and others have noted. Here we are talking about institutions we want to promote where life is at stake. We have to realize that it is quite different to have institutions that are trying to ensure that people are not harmed. They are anything but routine surveillance agencies that check people's names, like names, or no names. I'm not gonna keep it all any further than I am saying we should have given ourselves more time. I've just seen that it certainly wasn't enough. We also need, as I say, and I'll follow up, to get answers from the Civilian Institute on how, in any case, these matters are not being observed. I fear that the answer will be made, but it will only be found that the Agency cannot observe because it does not have enough money to do so. It is a serious matter if she is unable to monitor these matters and see to it that the bioavailability of the disabled, burn, and other functions are complete. I think that's what we're supposed to make sure they're done in a bill like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to include some parts of a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson. He believes we've won the case on the bioavailability issues of disabled persons with such a hurry that it somehow fell off the board, but this report just came out today. The narrative was completed on December 5, and the survival account came 11 days later, but it is still very important. We need not worry that this matter will be missed. According to law No. 160/2010, the Agency cares for the bioavailability, and we don't think that these issues will be beyond our reach. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he is more certain that when this united institution, the Homological and Ministries Institute, will be subject to the Department of Social Affairs, which will be followed by the Ministry to ensure that bioavailability will be ensured. They are enormously important, just as important as the role otherwise played by the Civilian Institute. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator that these matters are better settled in this Ministry than anywhere else?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u76	A respectable president. That's right, the review was late. I really hope in this ministry that this matter will be taken more seriously. If it was to happen somewhere, it would be there. What I fear, however, is that there will be no more money on the patrol. I don't know what this surveillance is like. You're kind of going to have to ask that, e.g. With the waters up north. How can you make a great design for disabled people who are super hot and who don't work? Where's the patrol? I realize that he may not be disabled and that he does not realize what it is like to be disabled. In this case, probably no one is aware of the fact that unless he is disabled, he would need to be in a wheelchair so that he would certainly be correct. We need to change certain things, and it's not a good idea that once these issues are addressed to the social and child - care minister, they'll get back together. I'll challenge him to get them back in shape. I also sincerely hope that I will see to it that money will pay off. I don't remember what they said, but I remember that less than half of what they collect in security and surveillance charges pay. I'm saying for my part that I'm probably thinking that there's a minimum of what's collected into it and then I can imagine that a double of the Agency's surveillance could be achieved compared to what's being done today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u77	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. A senator on bioavailability. It's not just the surveillance program that you have to take on, it's all sides and the whole process, from the idea of opening up. This should be ensured at all levels, including in design. So many people come along that should be the point of paying close attention to these things, so it couldn't happen that such a nice, big building would not be suitable for all of the circumstances in which people live. I trust the Ministry will follow through on the case. I agree with this review, and I worry about her, even though she's late. We've already mentioned this, and hopefully it will bring back to those institutions that are now being established, and hopefully the budget will be set up in the Agency, and the economics that will become new for the unity of all good works, and especially for men to care for the safety of burns, bioavailability issues of disabled persons, and other factors that are so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with her. I agree with her. If we think only back, we'd receive a review from Emess Empress of the House of Scaring and a huge number of other envelopes, 30 if I remember correctly. We couldn't recall just a few sources, but that doesn't make any difference because it's going into this channel, and then we need to be careful to make sure that we have access to the disabled. I'm also putting an even greater emphasis on the fire show. It is of utmost importance that fire safety is in order, both for disabled people and for the criminals, and since then I have been concerned that we are neither fierce nor efficient enough to set rules already on how we're going to deal with fires and forest fires when they come, not when they come, but when they come. The last summer was extremely dry, and we were aware of how the fires played the Myers. We must be clear about this, and we should learn from those around us. Now we're just supposed to go to Sweden's school. In America, forest fires are on fire over and over again, lying in the same area, and I don't understand that everyone always seems to be so surprised. I think it's a terrible thought that we're going to get into something so weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u79	A respectable president. I bring here the opinion of a greater part of the Department of Health for a bill to correct any change in the generalized law, with subsequent changes, but this law is no. 52/2016. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a number of visitors, a total of 17 guests. The committee received 11 reviews, and I believe we have covered most of the worrying. The bill suggests a change in the law on general apartments and suggests that the tenant markets of the tenants will be increased so that a higher proportion of people have an opportunity for public apartments. Changes are also proposed to reduce the financial cost of stockholders. Then there is a temporary rule that the Substitution of the Substitution of applications is intended to apply at least two-thirds of the budget used for distribution each time goes to apartments intended for income and property memory of tenants in the labour market. It is suggested that the terms fall from value when stock contributions are distributed to 1534 general apartments intended for income and property reimbursement in the labour market. In 1st. The bill is ordered to be authorized to provide a form of growth in the form of wax payment. A few testimonials expressed a point where this warrant was not to be dismissed. No new applications would have been received through development in the form of wax payment from the local law, No. 52/2016, went into effect, but it might be a situation where candidates can see the practicality of obtaining stock contributions in this way. According to one report, on the part of a camp loan fund, it was suggested that the growth process in that form is inexorable. Therefore, the majority do not count to suggest a change in the above terms of the bill. At 6 and 7 mg. 10th par. the law on general apartments is the rules for the income and property boundaries of the tenants of general apartments. Target for lower quantitation, i.e. Twenty-five percent of the total wage of fully working people as measured by Iceland's Hausp. It's the same income and property limits that have been established on the tenants of the social tenant that have been funded by loans with special interest rates from the Substitution Fund. The bill suggests the change in income and property limits from 6 and 7 mg. 10th par. The law will rise to the level of income in the two lowest of the five countries, i.e. 40%. The review of the committee showed different opinions about the above changes. Bent BSRB says that the saving of an apartment society would have had to be turned the applicants away from the current criteria where they were too low. With the proposed increase, the savers'apartments could benefit more families in the lower income groups. On the other hand, the U.S.A. indicated that the increase in income and property boundaries in the law could not be at the expense of all the income and most in need. As advising the above points, the majority of the part shows that in a report of a stipulation to expand housing and other measures to improve housing status, a concomitant increase in income and property markets is expected to result in an increase in strain production to prevent reduction of structure due to the largest fifth level. The Government's declaration of government support for biographies stated that contributions to the general apartment system would be increased by about 2 billion dollars. Every year, a total of 6 billion bucks. between 2020 and 22022. This amount has been expected in the budget of the next year and will be maintained throughout the terms of the agreements. A social Ministry memo delivered to the committee on December 11, 2019, points out that the financial boundaries of apartments borrowed on the basis of earlier regulations 1 mg. Thirty-seven. Law on Houses, No. 44/1998, in accordance with local labour and property boundaries, are in accordance with local regulations. Would increase in income and property markets in general stocks, therefore, result in concomitant increases in income and property markets from rented apartments borrowed on the basis of earlier regulations 1 mg. Thirty-seven. and is intended solely for the approved tenants under certain limits of income and property. So it was noted that it was necessary to eliminate the above linking between income and property boundaries of laws on general and 1 mg. Thirty-seven. it's a law of housing. Therefore, the Committee suggests a change in the law on housing and property boundaries due to apartments borrowed by 10 June 2016, i.e. the validation of a law on the general population, and is intended for a group of tenants under certain limits of income and property, based on the recalculation of revenues and property boundaries of the current general layers. In the 1st Team. The bill says that the Substitution Fund should provide additional contributions due to the development of stock growths that took place in 2016 and 2017 due to the increase in the maximum cost of construction in the period. Build them for 12. Regulations on the establishment of Member States and municipal enterprises, housing centres and general quarters, No. 555/2016, however, according to a report, the cost of building was too low. It is suggested that the increase of the maximum structural cost criteria should be determined by the differences between the criteria for the implementation of the law and by the Regulation No. 1052/2017, about a change in the above regulations. The change took place on November 30, 2017. Commenting on the matter, it was noted that it was appropriate that the directive also applies in 2018 because of applications received in the latter part of 2017. If the majority do not agree to submit the changes made in the material, the applications taken for the payment in 2018 should all have been based on higher standards for maximum construction costs. In the C- team, 1 1. The bill is a preliminary directive that we cancel applications, which should be used by the Substitute Bank, at least two-thirds of the budget used for distribution each time goes to apartments intended for income and property memory of tenants on the market. If the plan fails, when stock contributions have been distributed to 1534 public apartments intended for income and possessions from the labour market. As noted in this article, the law of the State commitments under the Government's declaration of housing from May 28, 2015, as well as the government's declaration of arrangements for the preparation of collective agreements, is in accordance with the Government's declaration of housing. The decision is not intended to be permanent, but it will fail when the above commitments have been fulfilled. Comments are made on the above - mentioned regulations. Among the laws are the aims of improving the security of families and individuals under the range of income and property listed in Article 10. and has been described above. To accomplish this, countries and rural groups are permitted to provide planning for buildings and purchase general apartments in order to contribute to the potential for renting at an affordable price for those in need. The comments on the provision were that the law laid the top priority for less - income workers in the labour market and presented priorities for becoming at the expense of microenergy pensioners. The greater part points out that, as stated above, funding for the disposition of stocks has been greatly increased and should be met by increases in income and property boundaries and by the above priority principle that two-thirds of the budget used for distribution each time will depend on the labour market's income and property memory. The Commission reviewed a total of 11.7 billion U.S. in building or buying at 2,123 general apartments. In total, about 9% of apartments have been planned for disability and special housing resources for the disabled. Then the majority point out that 20% of the population's apartment housing is a rural population, while a large number of people renting houses on farms are disabled people who live in specialized homes. Then the more part points to the law - to - law bill that became the law of No. 52/2016, was part of the government's work programme to cover the development of collective labour markets at that time. The construction of 2,300 social apartments was then expected to include two thirds of them for income and property memory of individuals in the labour market. Is the law to ensure that commitments to those laws will be carried out. The majority of the shares do not constitute a basis for a change in c-jaw 11 g. The bill, to be directed to the Ministry of Social Affairs, to pay particular attention to the housing needs of the poor and disabled person requiring special housing procedures and to respond in accordance with their needs. This suggests that the new organisation will take place in the implementation of the tasks recommended by the bill. Also suggested that the Act of the Law be determined on January 1, 2020, to ensure such harmony. Finally, the majority suggest changes that are technical and adaptable but are not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristjánsdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u80	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill to correct a change in the law on the general apartments. This was clearly noticed by why. An authority in the United States said that there are concerns about apartments for disability. It has to be said just as it is that although it shows that about 9% of 2,123 apartments paid off to do something about it, we're only talking about about about about 180 apartments or more. Let's put it in context. I think that Bruves ◯ The House Fund of the Quantum Community stopped accepting applications at the wait-list of about 600. Consider an example. Let's count how many people at the rurals, underprivileged, are waiting for an apartment. There's a huge need there. We realize that if I have seen it, it is unacceptable to have disability in a public tenet to pay from, as I have seen, 50% and up to 8090% of their house - to - house income. It goes on to say that when people are in a position to have to pay so much of their money for housing, they are not needed. In fact, they struggle to obtain food, medicine, and other things that already live in a social apartment. People may have $35,000. in a month for all necessities other than housing. Therefore, it must be made sure that these people are provided for and are not left behind. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that in this case it will be so that waiting classes will be extended.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree, in part, with this concern, which we tore up at our committee party. But we are also directed to the minister that he watches it very closely. Also, it is as it is said here that rural society and various other societies, such as Braun and Development, take part in this role as regards the disabled. At any rate, I know that in many parts of the country, these societies are almost exclusively involved, and that's very important, and I'm not minimizing it. It is always a question of how to look to it. This bill should not take anything for their discovery, and we specifically direct it to the minister to monitor them and trust that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with that very much, it would be very good and indeed great if a minister kept a close eye on the whole thing and with all of it, and then he stepped in right away if the waiting lists began to get longer, make sure the people in the lists were getting smaller, watched through evolution. He is to be able to get this information, both from Emess ◯ House funds and from the local communities, on what a great need it is. But you don't understand what to watch, and the question to the question. The senator is: Should he monitor the size of the list? Or should he watch for what? I want more than just him to watch, I want him to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator back there. I suppose the Minister will observe all these factors and respond in some way, e.g. by raising or encouraging resources in that area for the disabled. I believe that he will be involved in monitoring all these factors, and we encourage him to do so, and we will respond appropriately, with either an increase in build-up or any adequate farm planning that is found.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. Kristjánsdóttir I'm so excited to hear that this is the end of the story. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of her being content with the way the committee had managed to respond to comments and meet important ones. To be honest, I must admit that I am amazed because what is most fundamental to the criticism that I and others have. Councilmen on the minority opinion made it clear that there was no time to do so. That's why I'd like to go to the first round, if that's what I'd like to ask. A senator is pleased with the performance of such parties as Reykjavíkurburg, who have risen in the management of social apartments and are responsible for this. In my opinion, the State government is also responsible for this cooperation as well as for working together on social apartments. Another group member is social network. Although these people sent in late news reviews, I pointed out that of the 14 references that came in, seven, half came, after the deadline had expired, which may be even more critical in the memory of our memory, that this process is not okay. This is too short a time, not to be spoken of in a case ready from our consultations this spring. If the comments of these parties were trivial in the eyes of the greater part of the committee that they could stand here, claiming to be reconciled to the treatment of the committee on this matter when it is known that the greater proportion did not count time or reason to meet the committee so that they could discuss the issues presented in their reviews and criticisms of this sect? Was the hurry really that fast? Especially do I wonder what I think. A senator of earlier times expressed his satisfaction with progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the counter, and again I felt satisfied with our work in this case. I'll say, though, it came in pretty late. 11 reviews were received, given a three - week notice, and received reviews within that period. True, after that time, the news of the city of Reykjavík was not new; they had come into play before. The Icelandic country partner to whom the city of Reykjavík is entitled to express its joy with the bill. I believe that at the time we had been successful in handling the matter well. I'm not worried that it was a bad job. Three weeks of application was given, and I find that the city of Reykjavík does not look more closely than send a review so late. There were no special or new concerns that we had not already received. I think we've got a great deal on our hands and we're pretty good at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and assuming I interpret it correctly. A senator's problem is, when it describes that the city of Reykjavík was once at the table, i.e. before dealing with the matter. All right, well, it's just an opinion between us because I believe that the work that is taking place is primarily under the company's authority, and hence the lawgiver will do his work, apart from that, more than once, during the short time we've been developing this procedure, has failed to realize that the case would be altered between the two treatments, so to speak. I'd like to look at a little later in answer to a statement received from social clubs that I think everyone can reasonably agree to have something to do with. With the permission of a president, I will quote the concluding words of the review: The Society's count so that there is a great danger that certain groups of people now enjoying social services will thus be paralleled for the next two to three years. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the organisation considers it necessary to consider the provisional principle c-joining 1 mg. 1 1. The bill will be revised. [[The president calls.]] In this case, the company will be prepared to assist them in the work. Company representatives are ready to attend the Committee... Did the majority also think that it was unnecessary because it had already appeared, or did the committee feel that the committee changed its proposals to all the wishes of these parties? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u87	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect the timeliness that are a crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u88	A respectable president. There was a review, and we called the European Union a member of the United States. The relationship is to take care of the interests of every member of the country, including Reykjavíkurburg. I think it was answered, and as I said, they were already worried. Social clubs desired to appear before the committee but did not have time to do so. Now we're winning this case, and certainly at a time of time, but it went on in a three - week review process. There's a new process of consultation that's there in the process. I think we're working on this rather well. I don't have time to tear it back, but the more part felt as if certain views didn't give the basis for a change in the c- team 11 gr. but directed to the Ministry of Social Affairs to pay particular attention to this matter, which was certainly torn from social clubs and others. [[The president calls.]] So we direct a minister and hope that he will only obey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. There have been significant concerns about this matter, and what I want in my previous answer is priorities. People in a labour market are being placed in high priority than those who are reaching out for social and social facilities. The comments of Reykjavíkurburg and social facilities show a fine analysis of the need. There is a significant cumulative need for social housing, and some 1,300 people are listed on the waiting list for housing. I have repeatedly called for a discussion about the general apartments and the part of the job market, some kind of need - analysis of how many apartments are needed, not just how many apartments are being asked for funding or permission to build. I have not yet found answers to these questions, and I ask them why. In view of the serious comments made by the city of Reykjavík, the largest person in our social housing system, the exact change in priorities in the bill, the need for at least one of the more general apartments that seems to be not available, especially when considering the 25% of the revenues listed, should be considered. That criteria do not seem enough. There seems to be a lack of demand for general apartments, which may be the main reason for increasing income targets, but at the same time put the most industrialised ones back in their priorities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I come back again to the fact that I'm trying to raise a welfare committee, but the smaller part is always trying to tear down the work we've put into the cases that have been submitted here. I think it was pretty good work. I'm also going to remind you that it's not enough for us to have had a normal system of consultation, we've spoken in consultations, but these are factors that were agreed on in the biography agreements. How much should we turn away from it? These factors were in there. Social concern is that the pressure will increase. I think that this system, under which it's being built, will reduce the social pressure and should meet it. I repeat, we're here to work on a case that's part of the biographer agreement, and although the welfare committee is well planned at every booth, I don't think it's our job to change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u91	Mr. President. I must ask: Is the administrative point, regardless of what was written in the biography agreement or not, simply satisfied with the priorities of being put before a significantly more efficient company in the labour market rather than the most efficient in the community, which is clearly indicated in the comments on the issues of Reykjavíkurburg and other members that can be left out in this trend? Would it not have been advisable to take a little more time to work this case, ensuring that at least this busiest group will not remain on the wait for housing? It would have been a slow game for the government to simply ensure extra financial resources into these resources to meet the largest income group. It must be unacceptable that the busiest group in the community are left behind because of some commitment that the government has made in collective agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. The majority agree with the agreement made in our lifetime agreements, and we're following its emphasis. [[Up front.]] Not necessarily, this is a temporary change in response to the labor movement's demands. As noted above, the group who may have expressed concern for those who fall off the board - which we consider unnecessary - is that they will be looked closely to this group, observed, and responded by certain actions. I think that's perfectly clear enough. It will be done, hopefully and definitely. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u93	Mr. President. I'd like to recommend my committee party. the welfare committee, but under this view, the printed material that appears here, the chairman of the welfare committee, and why. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Halldóra Mogensen and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer, is also in agreement with this opinion. These include the Committee's opinion of a bill to correct any change in the law on the general population, with subsequent changes. In that case, a smaller section severely criticizes the social and child - care practices that are clearly seen at the input of the case. The case is presented in connection with the government's declaration of support for biographies signed in April 2019. Early forms were published in the European Commission's consultations on May 14, 2018, with reporters in the same important language as these issues for only one week to respond and had to be submitted a review by May 21, 2019. A total of nine reviews were received, signaling that the speakers considered the weekly deadline to be too short to fully analyze the contents of the bill. It was shown in the reviews. Governments need to be counted worthy of charge when it comes to such extensive issues and extensive changes in the laws on the general population. Critics also strongly remind us of the lateness of this case at the Allied Parliament. As mentioned earlier, from May 14 to May 21, the matter was handled by the government, but it arrives here in Generalis in mid - November. or about six months after reviewing a problem. So the committee did not have enough time to work on the bill, including since there was no time to call all the clients to the Committee that made serious comments on the bill. As a result of the discussion that has taken place here, it is appropriate to state, in order to arrange and be sent to the book, that a greater proportion of the committee would request that the matter be taken out of the committee without the representative of Reykjavíkurburg and representatives of the Social Relations, the largest member of a social home in Iceland, be represented by the committee. The bill affects not only large groups of people in a work market, as indicated by their goals, the group under a so - called biographer contract, but all the inhabitants of the country. The bill is part of the government's campaign to improve the housing situation resulting from their apathy in housing matters that have resulted in lack of housing. The lack of money has been accompanied by a growing price for housing, both for real estate and rent. Increased rent prices have been made more difficult in the lowest terms group; microplies, older citizens, unemployed, and students as well as the group to which the bill is to attend, i.e. The income of the workers in the workplace was low. In view of the fact that governments are taking action that is now taking place without the need to be analyzed, the less part of the Committee is considered to be very reprehensible, with the most obvious view of the country's need and the situation in a general real estate market. The public property owner also has a need for careful housing practices. People's life savings are often in the real estates of the people of the country, and they have an increasing number of possessions beyond the need for the savings of local property. Therefore, the smaller part counts as abdicating that action is under way without adequate need analysis. It should be noted, then, that there were neither needs for different groups. The minority points out that the biographer agreement was made only with the working class. The majority did not take into account the comments made in the media base hf. which is the owner of the vast majority of the social apartments in the country, not of the well-being of Reykjavík, which serves most of the country's citizens, nor of the review of the Kurdic Community and Emesthes of the House of Destiny. Their comments pointed out that by means of the bill, there was a marked increase in the number of workers in a labour market that includes a general apartment law without looking to the impact that such changes would have on people outside the workforce. A comment is made in the subheading of the city's well - being field of Reykjavík. The welfare field is considered important to identify specific income and property limits that apply only to the tenant population that rents social housing in rural areas. In the opinion of Reykjavíkurburg, the same level of income is a factor for the tenants of the local community and for all other tenants who are under law on general apartments. This means that any person who falls below the income limit in the bill can, in other terms, be entitled to a community tenet from a local society. Counting the welfare area of Reykjavíkurburg it can hardly be in harmony with the original purpose of the law on general apartments. Reykjavíkurburg's well - being notes that each year's income may now be a place for them to be viewed as entitled to a social tenement in relation to the bill and that it is clear that the groups that so far have the rights should be those who receive financial assistance from the city of Reykjavík, i.e. that the desperate and unemployed, as well as those who have a low income, will remember the changes taken by more than a share of the social committee, with a reduced share. In the review of Social Relations Corp. There is also concern about the so - called social facilities. I'd like to have a place to live. that any change in the law of general apartments has a significant impact on society's activities and hence on all those who rely on the services of the company. The Society is the largest partner of social housing in Iceland with a property collection consisting of over 2,700 apartments. As more than 6,000 individuals avail themselves of the ministry, it is clear that a significant group is involved. Social clubs consider the bill to include a large increase in the number of persons who will be able to afford general apartments because of the increase in income and property markets and the plans for urban development where rent houses are scarce. The opinion of Social Relations that a community member will be replaced by a smaller priority for 2020,2022. On the contrary, the immutable laws now apply to the high priority of local society's holdings as much as 25% of their provisional funds. Social settlements point out that they have an ambitious design plan for social housing to meet demand, while it is seen that those groups who previously applied for social housing will be paralleled for the next two to three years. The lesser part agrees with the review of Social Relations Corp. to suggest that this is unacceptable because the government is sending the message that the development of social housing in the rural community depends mainly on the responsibility of the local community, at least for the period of the rest of the 2020/2022 season. This can hardly be the message that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter sends to those most in need of support. This also makes reference to the removal of municipal sources to provide up to four percentages of extra production for apartments in areas where rent houses are scarce and housing has been a small or special problem in obtaining financing at public markets. While a camp loan fund would be permitted to provide up to 6% additional donations from the state due to rent - flotation in the same areas, such a change is not made without a specific explanation for it. In this regard, the smaller part of it would be normal for societies to have such authority, and it depends on them whether or not they will make use of it. In that case, the priorities suggested for c- team 11 are set. The same as we have been at the government for the past few years. To suggest that the priorities have already had a direct bearing on the company's ability to meet the cumulative needs of those in need of social housing. If that provision is also legalized, the situation will remain unchanged and those enjoying the services of the Society will be put aside for the next two or three years. With the reference to the above, the memory given to the issue would be unconvinced, simply because it seems that it was taken as little consideration to a group of those whose foot is in a position and because of insufficient time was given in this matter. It is proper to note that the smaller part is not fighting housing initiatives at all, not at all. The smaller part is not to be opposed by the government making agreements with the labour market partners for housing initiatives, not at all. The smaller part is making comments that in the same cookie, those who are finally on the watch for a brighter time should be put in the same cookie, i.e. agreement with workers in a housing market but forget about a group of perks, i.e. The poor, the aged, the students, the unemployed; for the contract of life does not belong to that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u94	Mr. President. I thank Dr. Helga Vala Helgadóttir for the speech. She reviewed the viewpoint of the parts in her talk and, as a matter of fact, nothing special about it. On the other hand, she talked a lot about the comments about social status and the anxieties of society that they will not be able to do their job the way they once were. In this case, I believe that there is some misunderstanding because by setting up another alternative option for the group in the two lowest incomes, the pressure on the rural communities to provide social housing is reduced and therefore the need for them should not be the same. The Senator must agree with me that it is not a normal community arrangement that all those at 40 percent of their income should need to apply for social housing. I find it very difficult to imagine that the senator thinks it is, and I believe it leads to a fall in the pressure at social clubs. The rest is then a very interesting point again in the review of the part to the smaller part, which at least To some extent, socialism and, to some extent, the so - called advocates of the labor movement, are opposed to the approval of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator may want to start at the end. It seems like a dog. A senator has not heard the speech given here, i.e. the conclusion of the talk that made it clear to the group that it was not against the biographies agreements but against the current practices, i.e. not taking into account this group. Right away. A senator says that it may be a misunderstanding at the social club and welfare field of Reykjavíkurburg and Reykjavíkurburg. It is worth pointing out that the authorities also sent a review of their consultations during the week given to governments to consult these large parties, and the review of Emess of the Emessin Fund, the review of the Development Fund, and the Book of State, because these are the very groups that are trying to protect the interests of this group of people we are here talking about. The misunderstanding. A senator says that there is a status of all of this at least The committee was not corrected because when the minority requested to bring these parties to the committee to explain their comments, the majority of them were rejected. So I don't know where it came from. A senator has the information that this is a misunderstanding, whether he has heard it in social clubs or only somewhere else. But it's quite clear that all the members who sent in the reviews and pointed out that they may have been mistaken - well, well, well. A senator? I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u96	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers from what happened. Senator. It is now that the National Association of Iceland's members sent a review to the bill and came to the Committee, and at least I could not understand the comments or comment given by a representative of the Union in any way other than that it was relatively acceptable to the bill. On the other hand, they pointed out, like the oar. A senator, that they feel that the time is short and that someone may feel that it is a three - week deadline. Yet, it is the burden that has been largely taken here at the council to give three weeks for review. The other is that when there is a short period of time like this, you may have to restrain something from being called to the committee meeting, and I have to say that it seems most reasonable to me that these are the ones who send envelopes within the given time frame. In many respects, that is the most natural one. And to be warned that those in charge of the overall organization or the overall group to whom it is called would be done in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Yes, it seems that much of it would seem worth noting to call in people who give a review after the notice ends. But I have not seen such harshness in this case, especially in the case of the largest rural society in the country, to let it be like the time frame given, that the reviews and very professional tips of the parties who serve the most important group should be ignored by a greater degree. The welfare committee, simply because they're late. This suggests that the work of this bill and professional senators is just a matter of putting matters through the committee, not a professional one. Even large people can ask for a notice, and in the case of such parties, such as the city of Reykjavík, it is actually quite unbelievable not to consider the matter, simply because it is too late. It's not a media view. I'm amazed at what they're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u98	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee's bill to legalize property and owe IL funds for the collection problem of camp loans. I'm gonna try to finish this story in as short as possible. In general, the comments given by the Commission on this matter, in particular from Iceland's Federal Bank and SEC, were somewhat critical that the management of the IL Fund, as if he were going to work within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, was not clear, but it could be said, in general, that the bill's main objective was that it would be beneficial to separate these activities from those of the New Year's Recontinents. The committee took into account some of the statements made, yet they make several adjustments to the bill to sharpen the precise contribution of the fund's activities. In short, 1st C.E. Add that the fund's risk policy should be determined to contribute to its primary objective, which is to reduce the risk of government funds for these assets and owe to the apartment loans. At the same time, this change is made at 2 st. that a minister should, but not only be permitted, appoint a task management board, that it should be organized to a maximum of three years, and that those directors meet the appropriate conditions of the head of the head of pensions. At 5 mg. Section 3. is improved by two new conferences that focus on what should be presented in the report to the Council that should be submitted annually for the activities of the fund. Other major changes are mentioned in Article 6. it is again obliged to set up a regulation on the activities of the fund, which may include: The risks and risks management of the IL Fund should be determined how the fund's property management and monitoring should be conducted and the role of the task management in other respects. The Regulation shall also state how the official information market should be handled and about the handling of confidential information and internal business. It is then suggested that there be a preliminary addition of two new paragraphs, that a minister should appoint a task force for the first time before April 1, 2020, and that a minister's report to the Council for 2021, as per 5 mgr. 3. This should include information on the work that has been asked for a review of the law. I think that by the changes made by the majority of the Committee, a great deal of the comments were made regarding the matter in a review procedure. Under regard to the writings of President Óli Björn Kárason, Lord of Gílundsson, Brabbur Þorsteinn Brynjar of Níelsson, Brutísdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Jóhann Friðrik the son of Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u99	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill to set up property work and owe an IL account for the collection problem of camp loans. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows how much loss there will be in this museum for interest. I've paid a lot of money from a camp loan fund, for example. himself. The vibratory is completely complete. This is a huge loss, and it's talking about 200 billion going down to 140 or I don't know. Is the loss expected to continue and then how much? Is there any estimate of how much the government loses? Then I'd like to ask you something else. It is obligatory to appoint a three - man assignment and to accept the same conditions as the services of pensions. What reward do these men receive? Is their salary known? Is it similar to the pension fund? One of the really weird things is how many pensions we have, and we have a huge amount of pay there. I would love to know both about the loss and whether it is known how much it costs to have these three men in charge of the property.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer to the loss is that the information that the committee received on this subject is estimated to be up to 140 billion. Many of these factors still depend on substantial uncertainty, even attacking them. and maybe mainly from what the trend will be on long-term growth in the coming years. If growth continues to decrease further, this loss is likely to increase even more. But that in itself is not the subject of this bill. There's nothing that we can do to stop the loss that we've lost, it's been due to a failure in connection with the legal process in 2004, if I recall correctly, where there was a plan for payment on the loans of an apartment loan, but the bonds paid by the camp loans were not granted. This is the main cause of the great loss that has occurred in recent years. However, it was in accordance with the opinion of those who gave a review of the case, and I heard the committee agree, that it would be wise to take these assets out and, under direct control of the state funds, to try to minimize the loss of the risk as much as possible. Regarding the project management, the Ministry of finance has to answer whether any special pay will be given for a session on such a project management or not. My understanding is, at least, that it is with the Ministry's employees, who have part of the responsibility of being assigned to this project. But the Ministry of Economics has to answer for exactly how this will be implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. There must be research to see how this huge loss came about because of some mistake and whether it was checked to see if a person would learn from it permanently in this context. The active growth rates of the total fund are 4.34% and, as we do today, it seems to be the low level of growth that it will remain. The loss seems considerable, and it looks like it's going to grow. One must ask, " How could this have been done?'" Is it a shock to the loose end,'so it won't happen again? ' There's got to be something wrong with management when we're talking about this huge amount. This is no small amount. Many hairs rise on many people when they speak of some 101⁄215 billion to micromaths and older cities, which are well spoken of at a rate of another hundred billion. It's got to be a really good look.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u102	Mr. President. I can't help but agree with that. A member of the council said that such a fundamental error could take place is a matter of great concern. This should not surprise specialists, i.e. ... toexpect such a difference between payment warrants on the loans of the fund but to have no such warrant in the debt that the fund gives out for its own financing. This is basic in financial science. There's a risk made for the fund, which has been found to be very large and still completely unpredictable. If interest increases continue to decrease and further increases in the rate of payment of the loans that are under those funds, this may result in a substantial loss for the government funds. Whether it is to blame the unscrupulous discussion at the time, apart from the mistakes made at the outset, I am not going to cancel here, but this is a reminder to us that when it is not careful, the consequences can be very serious, as it is very clear and good example. When this arrangement was released at its time, a fundamental error was taken, and the taxpayers will pay the bill for that mistake, unfortunately. There will be no avoiding, this simply rests the state's responsibility, and the subject of this matter is primarily to try with all means to minimize the risk of the state's funds where possible. In the end, it will still be an account that ends with taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u103	A respectable president. I'm going to recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill in terms of a change in consumer law, which is being promoted by consumer protection. Of course, it would be nice to assume at the beginning that the bill comes from the Employment and Development Ministry and is based on the work of a staff on the review of the work of small loan companies appointed by travel, industrial and innovation ministers on July 11, 2018. The report concerning the work force produced suggested various actions and the bill at the highest level. A minister proposed a change in consumer loan laws to promote consumer protection in financial markets. The bill included part of the proposals of the group, which was evident immediately at 1st. already at the highest level. A minister recommended for the bill that many people did not feel that it was far enough to reach the target for which the bill was intended, i.e. to further increase the value of consumer protection. Hv. The Economic and Business Committee received seven reviews from different sources, and our meeting with people from the Department of Employment and Development, a federal agent from Creditinfo, the Neythal and the SEC. Besides, we received some written reviews, including From Ecommerce 2020, the only source on this market that sent in a review. Hv. A financial and business committee invited them to appear before the committee on two occasions, but they could not speak at that request. As mentioned earlier, the bill was aimed at increasing the protection of consumers in the fields of loans, especially in terms of small loan companies offering relatively low loan levels for a short time, with high costs for borrowing. The terms of the bill justify the indiscriminateness of the law, the clear rules of legal selection, state that a consumer is not related to paying total loan costs if it violates the laws of consumer loans on annual rates of cost. General support, complete, was given in the progress of the bill. Take it easy to be critical that the bill's goals were not far enough. With a discussion on the subject, the Committee discussed the Oddný G. bill. Harðardóttir. Councilmen to legalize the operation of small loan companies, as shown in Article 14 of the current legislature, where the bills had the same objective, were to try to get close to small loans, and to increase consumer protection at the time of their arrival. The majority stress that following the implementation of the bill under consideration, the government continues to monitor the trend on this market as well as the development of a rule of the suit elsewhere in the North countries. Among the points discussed in the Committee and in the rest of the part, it is reasonable to consider whether it is right to sharpen the requirements of creditors to perform a credit evaluation and to base a decision on it. There is also a reason, a respectable president, to say that here we are, in effect, dealing with a bill that is a change in consumer loans, and that means that below all types of consumer loans, whether it's overdrawns, serials, economs, or so on. The song text today does not have a definition of small loans or small loans. The committee was even. pointed out that much of the problem we face with the activities of so - called small loan companies is equal to the collection factor and that it is even so that the main hope for the profit of such companies lies in the collection. There is something clearly defined in the Icelandic law on both primary and intermediate, but it is not a legal matter. Therefore, the majority feel that it is very important to explain better the rules on the activities of lawmakers and to monitor the activities involved. The Commission has been informed that this work is being done at the Ministry of Justice and Department of Economics and Economic Affairs. Encouraged by the extra work to be speeded up as possible and by the aim of a bill with the aim of improving the legal base of the collections in this way will be submitted to the spring Summit. The committee also suggests adjustments. One of the requirements for a so-called registration, but among the tips given to the Commission on the case, it was to adopt a permit or at least a license for hosts to lend which could be defined as a small loan. The committee was even. It was noted that in most of the neighboring countries of Iceland, such obligation was given and that in the northern part of the country, the tendency was to adopt the right to permit registration. Perhaps, a respectable president, should be able to say that one of the reasons is the highest. A minister when she presented the bill was that such a obligation was too burdensome for the companies on the market, and of course, it must always be looked to to as if on this market an enormous innovation occurred. We have quite a few wands that are walking into the market of the traders and thus also entering the market of consumer loans. But the more part agrees with the tips that have been identified on the case and suggests that there will be a registration warrant for the consumer loan laws for consumer loans as well as financial companies in the sense of a law on financial enterprises. At the same time, lenders will, as well as so on, be added to a range of 1 mg. 2.g. money-covered and underprivileged by the FDA, on the basis of their laws, as per 1 mg. Thirty-eight. In order to avoid double registration, a greater proportion contributes to the permission of a consumer agency to share information on registered members of the Commission. We believe that by contributing consumer loans to a law on how to operate on the financial resources and finance of terrorism, public control and monitoring of the operation will increase as a result of a follow-up on the basis of their laws is different from what we are referring to consumers clinic surveillance on the basis of consumer loan laws. The majority hope that at this convention the authorities will receive a broader perspective on the group of lawsuits that pay for appropriate reactions when cases are difficult to deal with. The Commission is aware that a general review of financial resources laws and related issues is coming up at the Ministry of Justice. So the question was, Was there any reason to wait for it? But the majority of the findings do not seem to be a reason for waiting for this change to take place. However, a greater proportion will be encouraged to take a special look at this review and to include the use of small loans. the experience of the recording of the registration and follow-up required by the majority of the arm now suggests that the programme is subject to changes. However, it should be noted that the changes we propose in terms of registration and registration also in the SEC suggest that the majority of the changes will be made in terms of a change on March 1, 2002. One of the significant discussions on the committee is paragraph 26. turned on consumer loans which recommend that the annual annual share of costs on consumer loans be no more than 50% plus operating growth. There is reason to guess, a respectable president, that in the report I mentioned at the beginning of the talk, this aspect was not specifically discussed, and experience in the North countries seems to be on the way that the companies who try to get past the law repeatedly find other ways to add up the cost of this annual cost. Nevertheless, it is clear to everyone that 50% plus flier growth is, of course, an enormously high interest level and thus contributes to a change in the bill and decreased to 35%, as well as a management interest. Then there is also reason to point out that the case of Article 3. The bill is suggested to add new numbers to the law that consumers are not related to paying the total loans when the borrower violates the law. It should be clear that violating this law means that a borrower does not have to pay the cost. This means that if the total cost of paying is exceeded by law on HAK, the consumer should pay back the loan of the head and obtain a reimbursement on the lender's hands, he should have paid over the head seat. I think it's a very important law, and we on the Committee are not aware that such a law is in the law of the other northern countries. The identity of this wax loss in the other countries is considered in a panel of committees. She's been turning down in general. Finland has had 20%, Sweden 40%, and Denmark have no roof, and neither in Norway, I understand, but Danir is talking about setting up a specific roof. It should also be noted that the rules may vary, to form in Finland, as this ratio is the lowest of our neighboring countries, i.e. 20%, but there are about 180 fixed expenses, which, of course, means that the percentage may be much higher in low sums. Then we also discussed the identity requirement. On the committee, we have been advised that small loan companies do little or no demands on identification when applying for small loans on the company's website. This is the case with borrowing in the name of someone other than actual borrowing, and these are known to be true. In order to improve this, the majority of the item contributes to the terms of the identification for loan agreements to be considered committed, either by autograph or valid electronic signature in the sense of the electronic authentication and trust services for electronic business, No. If the loan deal is made in telecommunications. Then there is a reason to point out that it is as if the majority of the account suggests that these changes will be acquired to a value on March 1, 2020, allowing them to have some room for market parties to respond to this increased demand. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusfsson writes in advance this opinion that he considers the bill, along with the changes made to a greater extent than walking might have been allowed to achieve the target. Under this committee's opinion write, plus mine, whatever. Óli Björn's Kárason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzus, with the above mentioned warning, Brubbar the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Jóhann Friðrik the Friðriksson of Friðak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u104	Mr. President. It's a bill. It's a TV. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers on changing consumer loans law, No. 33/2013, improved in the treatment of the Economic and Business Committee. A smaller section of the Committee feels that the changes in the greater part of the budget are greatly improved, achieving a much better objective of improving consumer protection. Small loan companies have been criticized ever since they started to land in 2010, especially because of loan costs and aggressive marketing loans aimed at young people and people who are vulnerable. The consumer groups have noted that there is a great lack of consumer protection and help with the borrowers of illegal loans seeking their rights. It is estimated that a large group of people have suffered financial damage because of insufficient resources, lack of surveillance, and lateness in the system. The consumer organisation reveals a great deal of concern about the position of fracture - resistant small loan companies. Because of the nature of the case, the organization feels that governments are responding rapidly to protect the interests of the offender and to help restore money that has been illegally taken care of. This concern and a challenge to the government for quick action is shared by the minority. As shown in the Commission's list of parts, some of the problems we face turn to the collected fractions. The smaller parts agree that the greater part feels that there is a greater need to clarify laws and monitoring of the work, that the speed at which possible work, and that the bill for improved legal requirements will be submitted at the spring Summit. In this country, small loan companies are not authorized or authorized. All other Norwegian countries have disappeared from registration. They've adopted their rights. This is a trespassing if the companies repeatedly violate the laws and regulations about them. The minority suggests that there will also be a permit taken up for the small loan companies in this country and look into the experience of other Norwegian countries in this respect. The list related to the one the greater part contributes to a change form, but since the experience of other Norwegian countries is on the verge that it is insufficient and that the permit will yield better results, the less part will follow. The lesser part agrees with the view that small loan companies should be employed by the laws against money fraud and the funding of terrorism. According to Section 26. on consumer loans the annual annual annual share of annual costs on consumer loans can be more than 50 per cent plus operating growth. The minority feels that there is a yoke growth and that a reduction in the target range is necessary. The majority suggest maximising the HK drop to 35% which is truly improving, but the smaller part does not count enough to be done with that suggestion. Therefore, the smaller part suggests that the AHK of consumer loans should be no more than 20% plus operating growth. This figure is not made up of loose air; it is viewed as an example from Finland to the peak of U.S. consumer loans in that country. A greater proportion of the funds suggests a change in the terms of identification required for the loan contract to be considered committed, either by personal signature or by valid electronic signature in the sense of law on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic business, No. If a loan deal is made in telecommunications. The smaller part supports this adjustment proposal. The minority suggests that the bill will be adopted by the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under this opinion, the person here writes a letter. Congress members of the Chief Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and Smári Mccarthy. Mr. President. As mentioned in the speech of a spokesman for a major part of the Economic and Business Committee mentioned earlier, there was a concomitant change in the law on consumer loans from the highest level. A consumer minister will discuss my bill on the special law of the small loan companies. This was discussed together in the Economic and Business Committee. The issues were given at about the same time. I'd like to say this here, Mr. President, that I was very pleased with the way the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, handled these matters on the committee and signed members of the committee's proposal to discuss these matters together and ask visitors both about the Minister's bill and like the bill I was the 1st transporter that, although it was arranged by special law for a small loan company. These adjustments were made in the treatment of the committee. Although the smaller part wants to go further as per permit and lower growth rate, there are, as I said before, changes in the majority of the items to a great improvement. However, we do not have enough work to do, and we need to continue to monitor these companies. It may be necessary for a small loan company, but we need to define it well and have a box around the small loans different from other consumer loans, such as reviews, etc., because of the special status of these companies and because of their experience and how they use both their markets and their collections and theirs. But that was not the conclusion. Now we're making changes that improve consumer loan laws but continue to monitor these companies. I'd like to finally, Mr. President, thank you for your cooperation with the Economic and Business Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u105	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on Economic and Business Commission's Committee on a bill to correct any change to various tax laws relating to eco-friendly vehicles. 741. The bill suggests that new temporary tax parks due to eco-friendly cars and new energy and clean energy vehicles, as well as the proposed changes to the elements already in force for the import and sale of electrical, hydrogen, and related automobiles. There are also new temporary tax threats to electric and carnivores, light - wheeled automobiles, and bicycles. I quote the committee, but I believe that it is proper to comment on key issues. A report by the BSRB noted that few economic inducers were present in the pursuit of clean - powered vehicles and vehicles despite a third of their emissions from roadways in 2017. For BSRB, assessment of the burden and benefit of economic impulse is required in different revenue groups. The Commission recommends that this assessment be carried out along with the necessary assessment of the results of tax catalysing energy exchanges in transport. A statement published by the European Union stated that reimbursement of worthwhile taxes due to work in the setting and buying a loading station for public transportation and rural society to conduct schools and disabled and older citizens driving services. In this regard, the Committee points out that in the bill there is such inquisitorship for housing, but it is reasonable to conclude that it is wise to consider how to support the development of municipal loading sites and those involved in public transport. The committee feels that it is right to suggest some changes in the bill and also emphasizes that the tax returns due to eco-friendly vehicles, etc. status review with regard to obtained experience within two years of bill execution, particularly in terms of number limitation and spending limits. So direct the Committee to the Ministry that such a review will be carried out in 2021 and that at that time the work will include the project. looked to the indications that have been discussed on the bill. The bill suggests that from January 1, 2021, only electrical and hydrogen vehicles should be included in provisional XXIV laws on mineral taxes rather than on motor vehicle vehicles. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that the delinquency of motor vehicle vehicles will slow down the nation's electrical vehicles, since decommissioning might reduce the willingness of salesmen to sell other types of eco-friendly cars to the country, car manufacturers feel unable to achieve their goals. The committee has some understanding of this and does not believe that it is a cause for the indignity of contact trucks to collapse with everything at the end of 2020. The committee suggests that the currency mark of the inquisitor drops in stages and that its time will be extended to December 31, 2022. The committee also suggests a change in the total number of these cars that will be raised to 15,000. The bill suggests rentability for the eco-friendly vehicles that meet the provision of temporary XXIV law on cost taxes, on July 1, 2020, and a value until the end of 2023. The Commission's review suggests that the time of this injury will be extended to the end of the year 2026 according to the workgroup's proposal to reimburse taxation of vehicles and fuel. The Commission does not suggest a change in this regard but encourages the Ministry to consider whether there is evidence to extend the appeal when the law is reviewed in 2021. The review will also assess whether shorter durations will reduce the impulse of rental companies to invest in clean energy cars. The bill also suggests that the number of imported vehicles in the public drive that uses evaluable, methadone, electricity, or hydrogen as energy sources will be set up and allowed to eliminate worthy extra tax from prices, or that would be considered an exception to the company's well-being. It's in the reviews of that bus bus bus. and the European Union is critical of the mass limit, with a considerable number of automobiles falling below. The committee agrees with this view, considering the number of people who may fall under the directive, there is reason to increase the number of limits and suggest that they apply to 120 cars. However, the Commission aims at the Ministry to review this limitation if the roof is reached before the date of the law is over. Then the commission points out that it also includes organized travel services for disabled persons, organized travel services for the elderly, and organized delivery of schoolchildren. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be accepted with the changes I have made briefly and on the deck. 742. Hv. Congress members of the Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Smári Mccarthy, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Ísleifsson Isusunsson sign this in advance. They believe that the bill, along with the changes made by the Commission, would have gone further to reach the target. Under the heading "Fond Friurk Friðksson, " along with this reference, the Bryndís of Jóhann Friðriksson, the Haraldsdóttir of Harðardóttir G. Hardydótt, in advance, Ólafur Ísleifsson, in advance, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, in advance, and the Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wímur. V.E.G. President. I want to know before these discussions finish, the 3rd of us. changes to the bill have to be made. On the one hand, it is a subject change, but it is related to the changes proposed by the Committee on Link Cars because of our perspective on the Committee's management, and to the exception of the taxable sales of nerve cars in the year 20213/423. It is essential that the amount of money drop in the same steps as the discount I had previously been able to make, i.e. Steps down from 4 million to 2 million in 2022 There is also a technical adjustment proposal that needs to be dealt with on the 3rd. In 1st. The bill consists of difficult and complex changes in regulations for temporary XXIV in terms of cost taxes, especially where 12 of its letters are to be applied in four different times already, January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, which are further explained in Article 4. This, in turn, is further entangled by the Commission's change proposal of merit tax deductors that slow down trucks. It is shocking that the provision of the provisional principle would have to be read at the same time as Article 4. Change bill to 432. For the next three to four years, consider the current court. It is better to take up the provisional principle in the sum of the total tax laws and to make clear the rules and money targets at any given time. So the motion is made on the 3rd. I thought it was proper to bring it to the attention of the United States, but this is primarily to explain the provisional principle so that it can be understood clearly and clearly by the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for delivering this committee opinion that I sign. I'm very much in favor of the bill and the changes we made on the Committee. Still, I thought there was reason to mention some of the factors here. First of all, I reiterate the importance of this bill in achieving the goals set out by the government, first of all, in the government's administration contract, and in the work programme adopted by this council for the exchange of energy, and particularly in our plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to increased carbon binding to the Paris Convention by 2030, and in the 2040's by the government'. I think that the measures taken here are very important and greatly improved, and I want to give particular credit to the ide that we take both the electric wheel and the traditional bike into these provisions, both to work on the goals I have mentioned, but not as well as certain human health goals. I'd like to reiterate what is presented in the committee's opinion, and I'd like to say why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee Óli Björn Kárason came in to direct the Commission to investigate as soon as possible how it can be used for the use wheels and bikes for motor disaster, and therefore to complete a review of the customs class of customs registrations for them. We received fine comments and comments from the Quantum Community on this matter. I would like to mention the importance of putting this public transportation into this package. It hasn't been so far, we haven't had a down payment on the cost tax for buses, and I think it's very important to us in terms of energy exchange. The committee and I raised the greeting but also directed to the Ministry to review the limits if the roof is reached before the time of the law is over. Then there is reason to note that inside this part, public transportation is also saturated and appreciated. Methane cars get their money back, but that's not what it means when it comes to the home car, and I wanted to mention here that the reason is probably because the record cars are competitive when it comes to the gas and diesel cars. Still, it seems that we have had very little success in evaluating the car. It's very sad, considering that today we are incineratingled with finesse that could be enough for 4,000,45,000 small cars. It's a big, big environment, and I'm not gonna talk about it when we remember about my next year double the production of estimate. It is a Witness, an eco-friendly, international fuel, and the evaluation will be made from our wastes, whether we like it or not. Now, we're investing in an enormously expensive and important gas and fossil plant up in Eelfunes, thus increasing the estimate production, so it's a sin that energy supply is not new. Therefore, I would especially like to point out that although we have not been able to match these views in this bill, since these coincidences do not apply today and we are primarily extending them - the main evidence has been that the record car is relatively competitive at a price - I think that this is something that the Ministry and here we need to consider whether there is any action and what action it should be, to promote the evaluation made here at least new, and do not have to burn or waste it in any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u107	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss what I'd like to call the expansive content of this bill and the modification of the bill. The Economic and Business Committee. I'll talk to them as vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee. The changes being made, such as extending the valuable tax taxes for electric and hydrogen cars for a few more years and raising the financial boundaries, creating changes in what was expected of the next car linking, entering motorcycles, racing bikes, bicycles, etc., loading stations, and the gang transport parties - all of this is very important, and I especially want to commend you. The Economic and Business Committee for extending invitations to link trucks because they are, despite all the importance and in some respects, the only way to get the money provided to the country, e.g. electric cars, i.e. doing business with the other cars because they are produced in considerable quantities, and there is a slight link between the production of connected trucks and clean electrical vehicles. I also agree with what you say. paritaprevir The Enquires of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, calling it another fuel. We have to make sure that we're behind a lot of horses in this because we have to reduce emissions from traffic very fast, and the power vehicle alone will not guarantee that. I'm also gonna mention the rent-in-the-art equipment, i.e. Carnages, to match their ideas and wishes, that I don't talk about road cars. It has naturally been much slower because it is not necessarily an electronic device. Rather, it takes care to eat and eat. All I want to do is say again that I support the bill and the changes in the Committee. These are all important actions in terms of climate and less emissions and in total opposition to all too common words of government, government, and General, in the absence of action in climate matters. We can hear it in a few hours, and that's all they can do but undermine the work they do and this bill and that treatment. The Economic and Business Committee shows that this is not the case. It can always be done better, we all know, but what's being done here is good, so it's time to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u108	Mr. President. I signed a committee opinion on this case in advance, and I intend to make a brief account of him here. There's a lot of positive things on the bill, including... is a postmortem of worth-employment tax on bicycles and electric bikes that are greatly improved. But what always bothers me in these matters has been the approach of the Ministry of finance in terms of the will of this kind. There seems to be always an underlying fear of how they work. Therefore, we still have roofs on a number of automobiles that can be enjoyed in this way and with the change being made, much of the good, in regard to group rides to public transport, is still covered. I would have either wanted to see these roofs more loose than there is, or just that they were not there. Based on the environmental interests of the environment, it is of utmost importance that we take in energy exchange in public transportation, and it is positive to see that we have space and we can look ahead to the bus's road. to divide the fleet into full or as much as possible. So I think it's unnecessary and I might be more ambitious not to put such fences in there. Just as I would have liked to see it put in context of the government's action programme on climate, no matter how much the measures these might take in energy exchange, what we might expect to see. One of the main criticisms that has been placed on the government strategy is that everything is missing over time of time, and that there are no better steps to achieve energy exchange and the efforts to reduce emissions. Similarly, when I first learned that this bill was to stop the coincidences of a linking vehicle, I was greatly disappointed, but fortunately the committee changed that approach. I would have liked to go further and simply extend this appeal to the end of 2023, such as by electric automobiles and automobiles until we saw our country more closely in the pursuit of transport energy exchange. Visitors to the Committee, including from the vehicle account, it pointed out that there are no predictable reductions in these automobiles on the coming stages. This could affect the motivation of the manufacturer, who are in fact dosing these vehicles into a unique market. This could affect their interest in selling such vehicles to the country, and that is why, especially when looking for the success of the changes in the composition of our automobile fleet have been in the exact same set of available linkage cars, although, of course, it would be desirable to see more clean electric cars inside it, that it is still the site where the homes choose from these options. That's why I thought it was premature to step this injury down, as it is done here. I'll repeat what I said at the outset, there's a lot of positive things going on, but I would've wanted to go further on these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u109	A respectable president. We are very much involved in encouraging electricity and other environmental transport devices to be used to the limit. But I think it's important that we all be realistic when it comes to this and we realize that things may not be quite as simple as we think. I wouldn't have liked to have only electric cars in the north a few days ago or a power bike. Let's get this straight. That would not have been helpful to many.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u110	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee to recommend a change in rural income and rural law from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by members of the Ministry and staff from the European Union. There were also reviews from several rural communities and the Children's Protection Agency. The bill suggests a change in the law of rural society's capital, as well as the law on income farm members, including with the aim of destroying the conviction of the court following the Supreme Court from May 14, 2019, trial No. 34/2018, in which Grimnes and Graffunspectures went against the Icelandic government after contributions from the fund were reduced based on a Regulation authorised in 3 mg. 18th par. The law. The judgment counted with reference to the law of law 2 mg. 78th par. The constitution that the legislator could not have been allowed to substantiate legal revenues by regulations, as it would be permitted only on the basis of law. Thus, the Icelandic state was sentenced to pay back. The results of the sentence include impact on the five rural communities that send in a collective review of the bill, as is attributed to its report. In order to respond to the above court of Supreme Court and to end justice, there are some proposed changes to III in the bill. the part of the law. The law shall be added to the requirements and the calculation of proposals previously in regulations and regulations set by the law. According to the European Union, the need for the changes laid down in both countries and the decline to prevent further trials is considered necessary. The joint review of the five members of the community and from Reykjavíkurburg provides the view that with the adjustment proposed to the b-join 1 mgr. 1st par. are being excluded from legal divorce requirements in 2 mg. 78th par. The constitution, referred to an explanation for the bill. The review says: "Is the law intended to establish the understanding of the two - mg [2 mg] income share of rural society. 78th par. The constitution is considered to be the distributed contribution of an equation fund once it has been decided by a minister. The majority of the funds in this context point to the role of the fund in terms of 1. Section 8. The law to equalize the needs of different incomes and tax revenues of rural society with contributions from the fund based on laws, regulations and practices set up on its activities. Municipals are assigned from the fund on the basis of the above rules. However, they have direct incomes of real estate taxes based on 1st-line. 1st par. The law and the sentence by the C-invent of the same paragraph, but the governor does the job of stress and collect an answer on their behalf. Therefore, it has to be estimated that there is a physical difference between the income stocks of rural society expressed in the a- and c joints they have direct control over and in the b- team, which is an intervention on the basis of the law. The majority of the articles show that in chapter 2 with the bill, judgment of the Supreme Court is reviewed, and motive and the need for legalization follows. Among other things, the nominees are referred to as Supreme Court, which states that, in view of the administrative status of fellow members and the orders of 2 mg. 78th par. the constitution will be the law of the law of the law only interpreted as being allowed to eliminate entire and partially except by law. So the majority count the changes presented here to III. the section of the law matches the 2nd. 78th par. The constitution by legally establishing a clearer rule on the equal role of the fund, as stated in Article 8. The law, as well as 2nd. 1st par. The law says that the income companies of 1st mg. Apply what is determined in the law itself. Separation of the equation. In Comb 4. is suggested instead of Article 12. The law will bring in three articles, as it says, in which there will be a more precise framework for changing the equation and suggest that the regulation of regulations from Regulation No. 1088/2018, where rural groups are divided by population. The rule does not include the calculation of the mean reference class income of the individual rural group which is 50% above the average. Seven. is responding to the court of the court of justice No. 34/2018 by legally establishing rules allowing funds to reduce the equation budget and set a clearer basis for decline, taking into consideration the above formula. The joint review of the five local members makes a comment about the new chapter 12. the calculation of the average population of each reference group is not defined by any 50% criteria. Thus, according to Reykjavíkurburg, the view that the city is not equal to the intervention of rural society and therefore rests on the city in comparison with other rural areas. The city, including the city, shows itself. that it may be the only member of the upper panel group of 70,000 people or more, according to the adjusted adjustment to Article 4. The bill. The bill expects a decline in equations made to that class. Then it came to the view that the distribution of budgeting donations from the fund is indistinguishable to look at total tax revenues from rural society. The greater part of the report shows that in view of the role of the fund on balance costs and the value of rural society on comparable grounds, it can be considered objectively that their overall income is considered to be taken into account in the decision to distribute an equation, and that the factors considered in the expansion and impairments of these factors are also being considered to be consistent. Following the conversion to Article 4. for detailed definitions on the basis of an equation proposal, and in Article 7 of the paragraph. on validation warrants for impairment to specific criteria met in Article 11. the bill suggested that the legislation be added to an Annex on the basis of the calculation of the budget. A member of the Icelandic rural community comments on the fact that the B section of the Annex is a project adopted in a community plan, the rural driver's service. The relationship relies on the view that contributions to new projects do not impair contributions to rural society. The relationship also encourages confirmation that the Commission will be assured of a new budget for this project or that the directive will be dismissed from the bill ethic. The majority feel that, according to the official comments made by the European Union on the split between state and rural society, it was right to keep the above projects at this time, while also directed to the government that it will be included in the discussion that will take place between state and rural society with the aim that these factors will reach the results that will be agreed on to the future. So here's a chapter on community unity and subsidies. In the 10th. The bill is proposed to set up temporary terms relating to the intervention of rural SEC due to special circumstances, on the other hand, on the basis of the cohesion of rural components, and on the contribution to rural development in relation to the above judgment of the Supreme Court No. 34/2018. The greater part of the report shows that the Commission's review of rural society stresses that before the bill becomes clear on the law how both the cohesion and subsidies are funded, as shown by the above - mentioned Supreme Court. The relationship also points to the following: The issue of judicial cases involving a total of five societies leads to a total of 1,300 million. K., of the financial resources that would otherwise have an equation, will be taken into account in order to meet the crisis demands of the Soviet unions on a government fund. This arrangement is required for Article 10. The bill. The importance of preventing further government judgment requirements because of possible failings on the legal basis of the fund. This may also be due to the reports received from rural communities that opposition to both the funding of specific contributions related to the cohesion of rural society and the implementation of rural communities following the trial. So the majority of the figures are that the suggestions presented in the provisional arrangement need more attention than the committee has time before the year. In view of this, the greater portion is right in referring to the points proposed by the provisional decision to the government for further discussions between state and rural society, with the objective that such factors can be met together so that they can be restored on the bill. So the majority suggest that the arrangement be removed. In between 12 and 13. The bill is presented with a change in rural law, but the main ingredient of the bill turns toward the income populations of rural society. The committee discussed a synopsis of a policy-making program on the affairs of rural society, and it points to its proposal to agree with its action programme on the change in rural law, including in connection with the funding of cohesion and exchange of projects between state and rural society. The majority believe that to maintain harmony, changes in rural law will be in one bill, directing it to the government that they will be brought into a published bill for changes in rural government law. So the majority suggest that the arrangement be removed. In his review to the Committee, the Children's Protection Agency points out that the bill suggests that it will be in 5 mg. 13th par. The law required giving information about students saved from the Children's Protection Agency to the Church Fund for its collection. The majority of the data shows that the country's budget is based on 2 mg. Section 8. The law allows personal information, including sensitive personal information, to meet the criteria for the performance of personal protection and the processing of personal information. The information suggested that the fund be called by the Children's Protection Agency in connection with payment is of the same hurt and is also subject to the arrangement without the need for adjustment. The Children's Protection Agency also points out that there seems to be a misunderstanding in the bill that the agency has the legal authority to save children outside the home. Child - welfare laws provide legal clearance to the national child care committees in order to make a decision on saving a child outside the home. On the other hand, a child - welfare agency has some resources that the committees apply to the living room for the children they have decided to save outside the home. At the same time, the living room points out that it is important to note in the lyrics that the costs of school are due to children in primary school who are saved in treatment homes. The majority agree with that view and suggest adjustments in the rendering of the law code in Article 5. The bill. A joint review of Skulling Stumps and the Þingal Islands points out that the State's cost in agreement with music schools is expected to be paid by local contributions to the balance fund. The greater part points out that, according to a report on the bill, there is an update in line with a new agreement from December 3, 2018, between state and rural society. So here is a brief chapter supporting biographies. In its review, the European Union proposes to add to the bill a preliminary principle to the so-called biographies signed in a spring labour market. In connection with this agreement, their relationship with rural society began to increase property taxes by 2.5% in 2020. The provisional law would prevent those communities that reduced real estate taxes in 2020 and 2021 from being affected by the loss of real estate taxes. With the reference to the above, the majority of the objects contributes to the terms of the d-d-dimer 11. Gr., like 3rd pars. The bill, will be temporarily deactivated for 2020. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Hv. Officers Bergþór Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason are signing this opinion in advance. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Council and the Council. General Jón Gunnarsson. Brjánsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ari Guðmundsson and Orri Páll Jóhannsson also sign this committee view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u111	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's list my share of the change in rural income and rural law laws (previous distributions from an equation fund). The one standing here alone on this minority party is a good idea that I wondered whether my criticism of the matter would allow it to be helpful to sign with a warning, for in substance I do not disagree myself. But what I'm interested in, and I'd like to express clearly, is critical of the trial. I thought she'd be better off in a committee party. It's short and sweet, and I'm gonna slide over it here. A smaller proportion of the environment and transport committees strongly criticize the practices involved in the collection of the bill and believe that the treatment was unacceptable. The minority points out that it was open to the government's consultations between June 20 and July 5th. and its conclusions then published on July 29th. Four months later, the case was recommended at the General Assembly, where it went to the Environment and Transport Committee on November 28th. In view of the short time it took before Christmas for the scheduled election, only the notice was given on December 9th. There were 8 reports everywhere, two of which, after a reported notice, i.e. December 13th. The only guests who were invited to a meeting of the Committee were from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and the Union of Iceland. Other than that, the committee could not respond adequately and call other sources, and then still others after the events, to the committee as indicated. It is proper to mention here, in fact, the city of Reykjavík that wished to follow the direction given to the committee was too late. That request came, if I recall correctly, on December 13, and the committee had been resolved. So it was taken out of committees two, three days after the report came out. The greater part of it was not a reason to bring in the city of Reykjavík, the largest community, to such an important matter as rural society. Given the occasion, I would like to mention that this is not the first subject we have had on a program today, which has to do with a short work period in Congress and rural matters. It has been observed in the case of some members of the Parliament that representatives of the European Union could be viewed as representatives of all rural society. I'm not going to make the shoes because it's generally accepted approach, but I still think it's a reason for us to cope with evolution that it is viewed as being viewed by the political treatments of areas that are still very many and quite different, both in size and in strength, and also in the way of individual matters. It must not be that the result of bix's consultation with the government and, unfortunately, the negative influence of the government, merely being said on a political basis is that the United States Union is fully able to speak for all members of the community. I specifically mention it here. The minority may agree that it was important to respond to the Supreme Court decision from May 14, 2019 in case of No. 34/2018, where the Icelandic state was sentenced to pay compensation based on the prohibited expeditation of the legislator to the Commission. This does not change the fact that it should have been easy to give the Allied Environmental and Transport Committee an acceptable time to discuss the matter. This supports the memory of the factors in financing related to the cohesion of the local government being suspended until the next year. The smaller portion, though, is to be found in the bill for other factors requiring more attention than the one listed here. Now I see and have to deal with the idea that I haven't wiped out what follows in my opinion: to the level of real estate taxes to be suggested. There I had taken out a much longer sentence in favour of a shortcut, so I need to make sure this is fixed. The minority reiterates that it is unacceptable that committees of Congress receive important matters from the government to discuss with such shame that there is not enough time to ensure adequate treatment. So, with reference to the above, the memory part cannot support the progress of this bill. I'm right about the reason why this minor opinion is here is the point of the case, not the very nature of it. I support the ones I managed to dive into, and the more part insists on being the two biggest, I just don't have the basis yet to evaluate and I strongly criticize that the conflict that arises in the account of Reykjavík's city on the calculation of the distribution of the specific donations from an equation fund which directly refers to our constitution does not have half of the committee's share, although not sufficiently important to at least to present a meeting with the representatives of Reykjavíkurburg before the case was resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u112	Mr. President. This is interesting. I agree, and I understand why. A senator of what seems to be my work gets more and more visible. In the beginning, I can also say that I share my opinion. A woman who is a member of the Icelandic community as useful and as good as it is is is representing rural society, ranging from tens of population to 125,000. We are familiar with examples of this, e.g. as the government planned to improve the opinion of local societies, the disintegration of rural society, naturally just because they had different interests. It was a gap between them, as they say, and it'll probably add some community to their books while other societies have to carry it out. This is a perfectly valid point. I'm curious because this is happening in other cases. It's going into a court date this spring. Then you will not hear a language until late in the fall when there is little opportunity to respond. I'd like to ask you what. Friðriksson Katrín Friðrk's woman, who still didn't count her time to make extra meetings and to bring in the clients, including Reykjavíkurburg, making serious comments to some of the factors involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We still seem to be trying to figure out the rhythm of this new arrangement, and I'm not going to make it up to anyone to go deliberately on the World Council Committee on these matters. The overall fact is that it is not just members of Congress but even the highest. Ministers still realizing their tactics. There have been repeated occurrences, e.g. At a council Hall when discussing these matters and with some criticism of the arrangement, exceptionally the highest. Ministers have answered the council so that they can only look at the reviews that have come into their consultations. It is a crazy approach, first with responsibility, respect, and the work of the council in mind and second because there are changes in the meantime, and we need to be able to observe the whole process. When it comes to this particular question, why? I'd like to first say that we all have to discipline ourselves in the whole process. If that means putting down a fixed date about the minimum time the committee gets to discuss the matter after it comes out of a consultation puzzle and then it comes out of the Department's care, it's one thing. In the case of such issues, the scope and complexity of this issue because of differences in interest and approach of those involved in these laws, it would have been important to obtain at least This client is meeting to discuss the matter. There was room for this, one thing has happened that there were committees here at night or along with other meetings. The comments of the greater part show that there was no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u114	Mr. President. I find it strange, if specifically mentioned, that there was no reason. One thing is, if it's not possible. I apologize, Mr. President, for the fact that here we are not in a material discussion on this matter, but it also matters what the procedure is. No doubt we need to call for a special discussion on the subject. A senator mentioned earlier. I wondered, " How will this puzzle benefit me? ' We've seen things, but not those things, which were put in our consultations, were given a lot of reviews but failed to make any material changes, yet they are so late that they can't be discussed. Then you ask if a minister will view his consultation as some sort of setup window: see what I'm putting on! Or, See how democratic or democratic I am! When nothing is done with the reviews and the Generals, I ask if they're all fake. I feel that there is good reason for us to take up a discussion about it, and even if only in that light, I feel that this minor opinion is very important to me. It points to things that we obviously need to do during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u115	Mr. President. I thank you again. A member of the council for the counter, and he wholeheartedly agrees that this was the very purpose of this minority party, to fix it down. This is an attempt to break down our feet so that we can unite in better practice. I just have to say, I can't bear to think that we're going into the spring with the same kind of work. I understand some of this. There are plenty of cases and the issues we've both been referring to in addition to this particular case are many in some way linked to the collective agreements of last spring. There's been a lot of pressure on the problems involved, but it's completely unacceptable that all that process, i.e. Quicks the action, then the finish line, a political treatment for legislation. These are important issues, and much is hanging around the wood, the ministry is subversive, and they are deeply involved in work. The legislation itself should be most sacred of all this process. That's what we need to watch out for. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator that there is good reason for us to discuss the matter in this large context after the year because what is to be considered most important is that the experiment of communication is found to be stillborn in the sense that she will be either as good as dead. A senator called with the correct window of twitting, an empty word, rather than a sound of mind. It can be used for good legal purposes, but it must be the procedure itself and that there is the best way to handle it here, which is most important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u116	A respectable president. I'll agree to the whole thing in the opinion of my share, and I'd like to add a little bit. "B" Unit 10. In this bill says, by permission of the President: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. b It is permitted to make use of up to 1,300 million. K. to deal with the five rural settlements that were paid too little from an equation fund in 2013-2018. The panther fund is not permitted to hold after a maximum of the same amount of the total equation budget according to the d-d-duty 11. and a- force 1.mg. 13th par. The law of the law, in the years 20200/226 that should flow into the Realty Fund of the Companies, compare with Article 13. b.◯ They're taking money out of the Communion Fund to settle this difference, and it's being reimbursed. In this respect, it should be all right for the real estate fund, which is well supported but - there is the big doubt - the Council agrees with certain donations and calculations for the balance fund and distribution to all rural communities according to the distribution, to the five non-employees who received too little. So I think that it is not possible to keep from the rural communities to pay off the subsidies that were given too little money. It was simply Generalis's decision that the amount of money that went to all the other rural communities was right in terms of the decisions taken during the council, so it is actually a failure to take back those contributions from them, but I don't think it will work. I believe that b-joints 10. is simply not good. It is to be taken out of the state fund to improve the rural areas that were too small to be donated so that all other rural communities do not have diminished donations in the years ahead because of this contribution, and in effect, the Realty Fund of rural society. Second, the trial was very strange. A meeting was announced on a very short notice, 20 minutes in advance or so, at the end of a meeting when the case was scheduled, in order to get the bill started in a review process. I missed that meeting party, so simple it is, I just had time to look and see that, with half an hour's notice, the situation should go through. At the time, I did not expect the matter to be over by the end of the year, but, of course, it was intended without knowing it, at least I felt that way. This line of work doesn't work. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson is the therapy of the church, the procedure itself, that should be handled by high-rankers. Those who can make sure that they are in the greater part of the council. There's nothing more complicated than that. The majority of the council simply do not want some subjects to receive quality care. It is the only conclusion that can be drawn from such matters as these, which are run through in a moment without a review or any other therapy. It is simply their shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u117	A respectable president. We're here on the Committee's opinion of changing the bill to legalize the law of the state, the administration and practices of the National Church, the rights and duties of the employees of the state, and the law on the head of the head of the state's pensions (the State's addition agreement and the National Church). I measure the opinion of more of the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by General Haukur Guðmundsson, the Deputy Director of Justice, the Fanney Óskarsdóttir of the Ministry of Þór and Guðmundsson of the Bishop's Office. The bill suggests changes to the law on status, government and conduct of the National Church, rights and duties of the employees of the state, and the law on the head of the head of the state. The story of the matter is that of September 6th. The representatives of the Icelandic State and the National Church signed an additional contract on the 1997 Congregational Conference and a 1998 contract for further implementation of the church meeting. With the additional contracts, the 1998 accord will be removed, while the church agreement will hold its value with the changes included in the additional agreements. The added agreement is part of increasing the independence of the National Church in finance and in staff. The contract goes on and on. estimated that the Church is fully responsible for its own finances and that it will decide for itself the number of its employees and that it will care for all the salary, accounting, and pay. The contract puts it up to the National Church to cover the salary of all its employees from January 1, 2020. It is clear, therefore, that the changes proposed in the bill are essential to the implementation of the contract. In view of the majority of the committee, it is important to ensure that the terms of the contract are implemented. As a result, work can be done to simplify and update the legal environment of the National Church, reflecting the social changes that have occurred in recent years. The majority stress that the additional contract does not include new obligations on the part of the State. The agreement means that the benefits - or the opposition - for which the church meeting applies are defined in a different way than before not for a decrease or increase. In other respects, the majority have no material comments to the bill but suggests minor technical adjustments. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st After 1st. A new article, as follows: Instead of the words. See The Watchtower, No. 18/1975,2 mg. Section 4. The law comes: law on written religions and principles of life, No. 108/1999. 2. After Section 6. A new article, as follows: Instead of the words "President of the Priests and Preachers, " of the 2nd Language, Article 34. The law comes: priest and preacher. Under this opinion, publications are written by the writer here. The council of Árnadóttir Colbek Arnad, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Steinunn Þóra the Árnadóttir of Aarna, and Þórarinn Ingi, son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u118	A respectable president. Two things here in particular. First, it does not include new obligations on the part of the State. The additional agreement underlying in this adjustment adds 15 years to the commitment of the State over the 15 years, which was for the Church Convention's revision. But now it has been shown in this discussion that 15 years do not pass government laws, so it is definitely quite a commitment to the State to the legal environment we live in today, in contrast with what we were living around the original church meeting. On the one hand, such opposition to the 1997/1998 Church Convention is making a complete contribution to the property arrangement made by the Church to the State. Considering the need to define how it works, how can you enter an additional 15 - year contract without showing us the status of the arrangement? Have we paid half the debt yet? What is part of the arrangement for this service? What part does the Constitution of this agreement have? And after all, when will we be free from debt that has been taken from the State by secular and permanent property?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u119	A respectable president. I simply respect the opinions of the case that were presented earlier. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear, which is a matter of opinion. It's, for example. much better for him to answer how this does not pass the constitution than mine to answer how it does it simply because I don't see any evidence that this does not. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Leví then needs to show me which articles do not meet the constitution. Similarly, he makes a statement without arguing with the question of whether or not this involves private spending on the part of the State. It has been suggested by the Commission on this matter that, in the long term, this does not include any changes either to increase or decrease, in financial obligations resulting from the State. This is, of course, a change in the nature of the contract. This is not a service contract, not a service contract, by definition, but by nature. Rather, it is seeking to separate the state from the church in this respect. But this is not to say that it is being purchased from the State Church defined a service, such as. The number of priestly works there or anything left out of the streets, so this is essentially not a service deal on the part of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u120	A respectable president. Hv. A senator needs to listen a little. It has nothing to do with opinions. I didn't ask if this was a constitution. I asked how it fulfilled the Constitution. I said that 15 years of age did not pass government laws, so that it would be clear. There is an increase in commitment on the part of the State. What, for example. of the number of priests paid for by the previous agreement? The number of records in the National Church has decreased since the church meeting was held. Today, nearly half of those born in the National Church are now registered, so that in the coming years, the decrease will be even greater, in comparison with that core picture, compared to 90% of this contract having a built - in pay number. Because it is no longer based on the number of enrolled persons, it is an increase in commitment. Similarly, there was no comment on how the secular possessions that moved between the State and the church were dealt with, for they are finals, but this agreement does not assume a resolution of the final property.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u121	A respectable president. Well, I don't have much to add that I outlined earlier. Perhaps there is some phrase that involves a big difference between asking how something is conducted in a constitution or how something is going against it. We assume that if things do not conflict with a constitution, they must resist them. [[Up front.]] No, I'm having a bit of a problem with this, maybe you'll have to put it straight. In case of a moment. With permission, what were you asking? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u122	How is this being fulfilled in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u123	Hv. A senator makes a major difference in the question of how any item meets the Constitution and the question of whether any part will last. Well, I myself don't make the whole difference, so he'd have to explain to me better in what the difference was. But if you do. A senator has doubts that this will match the constitution, if we use his own wording, it would be closer to entering the chair and how it did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u124	Mr. President. I measure the opinion of the 1st minority of the General and Education Committee. An additional contract by the United States and the National Church was signed on September 6rd. The bill suggests legal adjustments to support the objective of the contract, i.e. to simplify the legal environment of the financial ties between state and church and the financial arrangements made by the State Department. The additional contract was signed by three councilmen, the bishop of Iceland and the President of the Council, and was not signed under the Allied Council for approval or rejection. Thus, the General Assembly is not intended for any additional workload but to ensure that the legal adjustments resulting from the contract are carried out. However, a memory of 1st points out that if the bill does not have a legal basis for the contract, the contract will smile, and it will not take effect. Furthermore, the 1st small part of the warrants that it is the General Assembly that has the legal authority and must be considered extremely unfortunate, therefore, that the Council has not been given the opportunity to create a contract that has so much financial value in the long run. A meeting of the Commission and the bill shows the view that the contract is not forming new commitments on the part of the State but, rather, merely specifying the benefits in another way on the basis of a so - called church meeting. A smaller section, however, points out that the addition of this contract contains fundamental changes from the previous agreement. The function returns the mean value of the distribution. from making the contributions of the state to the number of bishops, testiest, priests, and other members of the National Church, and also from making a connection with the State's contribution to the proliferation or reduction of members of the National Church. In view of the steady decline in the number of members of the National Church in the past decade, it is expected that this trend will continue and the staff will decrease at the same time, it is likely that the removal of contributions to the number of members and workers will include changes that in all likelihood will lead to higher financial expenditures. The first minor section points out that for the General Assembly it is just a proposal for action from 11 members of the four Parliaments and one member of Congress outside full dissociation of state and church and new overall legislation on the activities of religious and principles partners. A smaller portion supports full separation of state and church, i.e. As a result, the financial and legal support of many of the bill being discussed and the willingness of the additional declarations of the Convention contributes to such separation, while the above mistakes of the additional agreements are so significant that a smaller percentage cannot support the bill and thus indirectly add to the Icelandic and National Church contract. According to the above, a 1st smaller section contributes so that the bill will not be accepted. At this minority party is the man with the sledgehammer. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u125	A respectable president. I present the Committee's opinion of the second memory of the General and Education Committee in case of No. 469 of the bill for a legal adjustment of the law on status, government, and conduct of the National Church, in particular, the additional contract of the Icelandic State and the National Church that has been discussed here. I'm going to start by reading up the committee opinion, not far but nuclearly in my opinion. An additional contract signed on September 6 by the United States and the National Church. This includes an review of the 1997 church meeting and a 1998 contract for further implementation of the church meeting. With the additional contracts, the 1998 accord will be removed, while the church agreement will hold its value with the changes included in the additional agreements. It is a lower estimate that by signing the additional contract, the government is taking care of the interests of the State Church rather than the taxpayers. It is reasonable that the government's contract aim was to make the pay that was negotiated by the church meeting final. The need for the government to provide a boon for an unpredictable future for property that the State has already received and paid for for over two decades. A smaller portion of the church meeting is considered to be a very peculiar arrangement and a peculiar arrangement for maintaining it by the government. If the government's will for the real segregation of state and church must go further, but such separation must only be extended by decommissioning the Constitution of the National Church as well as by decommissioning laws that guarantee national status over other religious and biological institutions. At that time, 2 smaller things claim that he supports such separation, of course. A reminder shows that the fact that the case is a blow to the case is limited by the Generals. This is a contract that involves significant government interests and taxpayers. In spite of this, the General Assembly is reserved for a formal approach, i.e. to confirm the legal modifications resulting from the added contracts, and to argue that the government's approval of the Synod outweighs the approval of the Generalis. The procedure of this matter has been narrowly established where the matter is late, when there was no time to dismiss it, and where there was limited possibility. This practice reflects in the opinion of part 2 of the less peculiar attitude of the government on the affairs of the church. A smaller section feels that individual features of the bill are in themselves fine, but in view of the fact that the bill is based on the church meeting, which 2 smaller things consider both nonverbal and unreasonable, 2 smaller things are not open to support the situation. In view of all of this, the lesser part suggests that the matter will not be accepted. Under this opinion, the writer of this report, The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. As indicated in this committee party, my opinion of the matter was shameful, and if not, I don't know what it was. The matter was not only too late for the council, but this time it was not even allowed to be told. This is typical of the state's attitude when it comes to church meetings and affairs; the government, anyway, this government, seems to consider it a personal subject of the National Church and a government at any given time, as if it had nothing to do with the public, has nothing to do with getting public opinion on it, or a town or any General himself, if that is the case. I understand that this bill's carriers want it through, but that's not a rationalization of such practices. A respectable president. This matter was to be passed long before the council was due to receive adequate treatment. Now it may be that while the case was not submitted, one review has been received, written today, from a member named Vanity. It says that the additional contract contains new commitments on the part of the State, contrary to the claims of the members of the body. Now this is something we would normally discuss on a committee. We would have a lack of faith at our meeting, we'd ask them questions, they'd be able to share their views. Then we would ask someone else who is coming or ourselves, discussing something, and then we would reach a conclusion, not by the speedy approach used in this matter. Another subject that has been discussed briefly in a committee of the Ministry or Bishop's Office, which I do not remember, is that not accepting this bill is said to turn the legs off from the added contract. First of all, a respectable president, I don't think that's a terrible thing. Then parties can just sit back to the table and negotiate a new date or anything else, negotiate these currently paids, according to the 1997 Church Conference, which is still in force, an infinite height, i.e. They cover an infinite length of time, despite the finality of the earth and the establishment of the government. I understand that even the state sold some of that land, so they can't be returned. It's really a little bit like buying something, but it's payin' all the rent, it's actually both a contract and a lease. Speaking of which. People here in a pita has often been talking about what a terrible organization the Church is. All right, let's just do it. That doesn't mean she should have any special privileges over other religious and biological institutions. There's simply no reason for that. Then come members of Congress here at the pontu and celebrate the church's services, which may all be true and right. But then they always act as if they were not of other religions, such as other religions just shut the door on people or that other religions do not provide psychological care and salvation. They do, and they don't need special privileges beyond other religious and biological institutions to do this, they just don't need it. And see that they are all, every one of them, much smaller than the church of the people. The church has overwhelmingly the largest congregation, is the highest of its charges and greatest support, even if it is not considered to be a special law against the National Church or the Constitutional Protection. If there were only one religious and laboratory organization in Iceland that could live up to that role without this government support, it would be the national church, but they're now dozens of them and they're all kinds of people. There are more Christian congregations, all sorts of Christian congregations, including Lutheran, Evangelical, Catholic. There are Islamic congregations, at least two of whom I believe, and then there are biological organizations that cover over non - activities based on so - called religions. It is also worth considering, when we talk about religion at the Council, how unnatural, to say more, to discuss religion here. The person standing here has a personal conviction that in his view is of little value to the public except in a discussion of religion in some other way. I don't think it belongs here, some Bible reading, or a comparison of books to produce alleged contradictions in which we deal with the truthfulness of the first book of Genesis or how to interpret the book of Revelation, which is now a fair task. However, the protection in a constitution makes it really unreasonable to discuss religion in a material sense here. Suppose I, as a politician, want to change the constitution in some way. There has been another occasion when members of the council think of changing the constitution. Let's say I want to fix something in the constitution, for example. 2.g. I want to explain it better, to have some experience or knowledge of the court system, and to believe that it can be improved. So, what do I do? I come here to support that change in material things. I come here and explain to the public and to the Senate and to the president who best I can understand why I feel that this change should take place, based on some underlying truth that I believe I have about how the judiciary system works and how the protection in Article 2. The constitution is not enough. The same applies to all articles of the constitution. If a senator is interested in changing them, he must give material reasons for this change. But that also applies with 62. ...theGrandian? What if I'm a Catholic? Suppose I'm a Catholic, I feel that Catholicism is right. What happens then? Yes, I should probably come up here in a pita and argue why the Evangelical Lutheran Church should not be the National Church of Iceland, and therefore with special protection but because the Catholic Church is the truth. Then I would study the Bible and explain why I thought so. This would rather be absurd as part of the General Assembly, a respectable president, and I'd allow myself to claim that the entire U.S. Population agrees, let me pass it on. I'm actually interested in a discussion if someone disagrees with it. I feel that everything that needs to be said about how unfortunate and unnatural it is for any governmental order that is to have some kind of national or national religion, just as I feel it is crazy to have a lack of nationalism or a national outlook. It's just out of the management field. This goes beyond the government's work, beyond the council. We can't even talk about it materially without everyone feeling silly or crazy. That's what I feel about the point. I would also like to mention that this does not involve any material criticism of underlying religion. I'm not personally that religious belief, but it has nothing to do with it. It is not about the quality of the Agency or the work involved. This is about the nature of the administration order, the nature of the government's relationship with one of the most personal things in the life of all of us who are religions or atheism or what it is. After all, it's a personal matter that doesn't concern the public much unless people are interested in talking about their own initiatives, as is the person standing here from time to time on the Internet. But just as we would not place some national taste or national opinion on food taste, we should not have national beliefs, no matter what the historical context is. I can't help it because the Church has made a big part of Iceland's history, a story that isn't all positive, but, of course, it does. I don't think it's going to go away, and I'll bet that story doesn't go away taking away this special protection. It's going to be history. Writing sources continue, and the church will continue to play the role it chooses to play, and its members will seek from it and pay for it, even by tax returns. I'd also like to stress that this is not even an objection to the state's support for religious and biological institutions. I think that's another discussion. I'm against parishes, but I think it's only natural that there's some support for religion and philosophy, just as the state supports football companies and other things that some might think are a frightening waste of time but others don't. The important thing is that religious and biological organizations are equal in relation to the state, not whether the Lutheran-evangelical religious convictions are true or false. There's something I don't feel appropriate about here, but I still have the odd position to convince others to change the law, more specifically, the constitution, I have to go to a material religious debate that is ridiculous. I specifically mention this because there has been a lot of evasion in the conversation I notice and in the media that here are some attacks on the church, and it's just wrong, respectable President. That's wrong. It is an attack on inconsistencies, an attack on unreasonableness, an unspoken, unnatural and unreasonable agreement, on an unhealthy and unnatural relationship between state and church. These are the points of criticism. It wouldn't matter which congregation was at stake. We've come up here anyway. Councilmen, like what they're doing. 5th a.m. Smoke. So let's face it, the person standing here would support this contract if it was a philosophy of life where I myself belong. That's not true, Mr. Honorable President. I'd refuse it on the exact basis that I'm against the charges in that club, so I'm just saying. I don't like it. I don't want it. If there is no reason to have a government grant to that partner or any other group over his head. Although supporting them may seem challenging to me, I don't see any particular reason for doing so. I think it can be demeaning as long as it's equal. This raises another question: What will you accept as a religion? Is it just something that existed back in the day? Can't it be new? What if I get new ideas? What if God is speaking to me today, bringing in a completely new truth that rewrites the whole story, as illustrated by the historical record in both the New Testament and the Koran, and the Book of Mormon? From time to time, someone feels that he has gained a new truth and becomes a religion. I wondered how we would begin to appreciate it today. I think we could do it badly, a respectable president, and this does not necessarily stress that these religions are all wrong, there are other and better circumstances for that claim, but the unnatural relationship between Church and State. That's what this is about. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I have realized how bad I feel about this treatment, from the content of the matter, and I expect this discussion to continue as long as this abnormal arrangement exists. But at the end, I have to say, at the end, that I am celebrating one of the additional agreements allowed to reevaluate it at the end of 15 years and, if I understand correctly, that if the agreement is not reached, there is still a period of 1997 in which it can be stated. In fact, I now find this also an awful deal, if that's the case. I can't see how it would take place from the lawgiver's role, going back to the church meeting without the added agreement. What would the government pay? How would the State change the law? Well, that would be a very complicated discussion, anyway, I think. I have felt that it was the direct goal of this church credulity to make this as complicated and impossible as possible for future generations to change this arrangement. That is, a respectable president, if it is true, dishonest, and wrong. People should be ashamed if they participate in such activities, in my opinion. A respectable president. Now I've once said I won't have this any further, and now I'm gonna say it again and this time to mean it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u126	A respectable president. Let's start with the comments just mentioned in the answers to the majority opinion of the carrier. I have no doubt that the bill is the Fulfiller of the constitutions. This is far too much to do. I'm asking how the additional convention is or what part of it is in fulfilling the Constitution. How does the addition agreement meet the Constitution? That's what I'm asking about, very simple. We have the amount of money in this additional meeting that is not divided according to the duties of the government, the government, toward the Constitution of support and protection of the church. We don't have it broken up with regard to the service we expect to get for the money we make for this agreement. We need to make that breach because part of the government laws on public finances and the agreements that the government makes is monitoring the quality of our service. It cannot be released when convenient. Finally, it is the provision of the church meeting to begin with that it is the complete payment of their possessions. In 1992, we know exactly how to answer the question of the old senators that the approved property was expressed in the opinion of a church committee, a 350 - page list of property that is divided between the rest of the population, the church, and the commons of the earth, the benets, and the houses. It's a sum of the sums of them from real estate assessment of the Church property, $1 billion. This amount can be calculated further, just 72 million more than 1 billion dollars, probably at the price of 1992. At an updated prices with an index price, we are talking about just over 3 billion in 2018, which is based on this government's ownership process. Since then, something has been added, and the Ministry refuses to comment on the property involved. Perhaps because it is so embarrassing to say that this $3 billion amount was being paid indefinitely. Possession. It is certainly true that soil has been selling at higher prices than real - estate estimates, but it is also impossible to answer the difference between real estate and prices in general in recent years. It should be easy to see it in senators, the real prices before and after, but we also have no answer. That difference will never be ten times that, at least I don't expect it to happen. The additional meeting is, as mentioned in the discussion, taking away the provision from the church meeting work, which is increasing or reducing the number of paid priests. They were 138 and have reached 136 according to the change in number of lists in the National Church. This is clearly not true, since it is being removed at a time when church registrations are reduced and the number and the number of new registrations are now below 50%. As a result, this additional agreement, which is now not made, as it is said here, includes new obligations on the part of the State. However, this contract undoubtedly includes more commitments because 90% of the amount stated in this contract is updated with a pay number, not increase, or decrease. There is no decrease in number for priests, and it is not revised for the next 15 years. A study of the law on government finance simply cannot be successful, since it clearly stipulates a maximum of five years of contracts. It may be possible to have an exception, but it is not even an attempt to explain it or to argue that 15 years are necessary and that this is not necessary. I could understand if it took another 15 years to renovate this piece of property, it'd be fine, but it's not even tried. Thus, in my opinion, this must be an illegal agreement, and as a result, it is not usually valid and can be recorded every year because financial laws are adopted each year. After all, it is the General Assembly, and in the end, it is Generalis to decide whether this contract will be financed or not. It does not have a time span forever, it is not possible to live in accordance with official financial laws. He does not agree with a 15 - year revision principle; he does not work according to the formula for which the public financial law assumes. That is why the contract will apply only from year to year, as the Council agrees. When the General says no, he simply falls for himself. If the church believes that it is the case or something in the form of property that is behind it, the church will simply have to bring it to court. Then we must place all the data in that case and end up in the final amount, not the infinite amount that we now live in. This has been said of the fact that there is not really a separation of Church and State. There's so much to go on. All the additional regulations in this contract and all that are yet to be done in the first place are not enough to complete the separation, since there is exactly a lack of the financial separation, which this definitely is not part. However, there is a constitution to protect and support the church, and somehow it has to be fulfilled. It may not have to be fulfilled by financial commitments, who knows? I suggested that I make adjustments in the budget to support the public in paying for the promotion of a diocese. Otherwise, this could only be applied as in any other nation's congregations and institutions. All other tenets use their fees to cover pay - or additional memberships or other sources of funds. [[Premium: Or social fees.]] But based on that, it's the charge. They are not updated according to the pay sheet, but a contract with the National Church is tied with a pay sheet, and in addition to that, the local church receives the charges, on top of all of this. There is the difference that you are trying to draw attention to. Yes, it may be behind this deal some payment on property, but we do not get the answers to what it is, which amounts are behind it. And the list that has been referred to as the opposite of this contract, the amount of money that we are dealing with in the contract permanently, matches impossible with the amount and value of the assets involved. There's been an interesting tip. In the 2018 State Department Review Report on the State Department, the National Reconclusion of the Council concluded that a certain official financial legislation is being completed on the founding of all state property and the commitments of that property. It's supposed to be over this year. This means that all the property that is under the list of church properties is seen in the founding economic accounts and that is to be seen in the commitments to each other. But there's nothing that's so damn likely to work, I would think. The amazing thing about this is that the National Church has also requested that this act be settled, requested in May 2018. She asked for information on the situation on these assets. The church itself wants to know what they're about to get paid for their possession, but there's no answer. This is an enormous issue as we examine how many billions are under it. So it must be a priority for the council to get information on these figures before we go into some major adjustments in the arrangement as it is available here. Then I specifically talk about the experiment to put it at 15 years of time. Of all that's here, it's the 15-year period for the revision principle, which is the most fucked up. The other items are chicken steps in the right direction, I'll totally agree with it. Not knowing, though, how the switch is between the fulfillment of the regulations of the Constitution, the sale of services, and property, is absolutely unacceptable for the council. I don't think there's much work to be done for the council. But as in many other matters, more parts of the council skip the matter because it comes from the Commission, from their advisers. The case is held silent and silent and injected here, and even, as shown in the case of the 2nd smaller parts, with no history and no political treatment. This is especially common before the assembly or the end, and it is something that we must work on. Only one part of the council can fix this, and that's the major part. It's more of the part that shovels it through. This is entirely the responsibility of the greater part, and it will be his.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u127	Mr. President. I recommend more of that committee party. the welfare committee to propose a synopsis of about 300,000 dollars. Minimum social security advance. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by visitors, as well as the reviews received from the National Institutes of Development and the Economic Community of Iceland. The proposal suggests that social and child - care minister be assigned to prepare and present the bill that full of disability pensions, rehabilitation pensions and pensions, secure 300,000 dollars. Minimum progress per month, tax and inadequacy. The majority of this calls for a review of the social security system and is hoping that the products of the work will soon become evident. In addition, money has been set aside for system changes in both financial and financial programs to reduce the loss of disability. Remember, 4 billion bucks. doing that work in the coming year. Among other changes that have been made in recent years, the so - called crown has been reduced to a dollar's degree. At such times, the arrivals of the elderly and the disability of the health clinics have been dropped, and because of new changes, dental services in the long - suffering elderly and desperate institutions have now cost no expense. The more the point is that there are no costs, but the costs due to such changes have been thought to run at tens of billions of dollars. Clearly, there is no room for such financial expansion. At a meeting of the committee, the view was that the proposal was to discriminate the wage population from micropair to the elderly. It also stated that jobseekers and students often find themselves in a position similar to that of those whom the proposal should include, and it would be impossible to follow the course suggested in the proposal. In all the structural changes introduced in recent years, it has been guided by the use of the most efficient income. In this way, when new release income tax changes are fully implemented, income taxation will decrease by more than 90,000 dollars per person with minimum income insurance. every year. The interpretation proposal includes only microenergy, rehabilitation and sensibilities, but not other groups of people, such as unemployed, maternity or working people. Thus, there is strong doubt that the proposed proposal will last. There is no evidence that these groups should be exposed to parentheses by such specific measures. When all is weighed and assessed, the majority of the remaining part estimates are not premised to attack the proposed changes. In view of the above, the larger part suggests that the proposal will not be accepted. Ásmundur Friðriksson was absent from the case, but reports under the opinion given at 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the headings of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdótttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Árnason Arnam.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for his history and advising the majority of the welfare committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, since he speaks of 4 billion who should spend the year to meet the declines of this particular group, where he has found that number. I'm just a weak senator on a budget board. I've completely missed the 4 billion. Last year $2.9 billion were found, placed in a dollar - to - a - dollar way, while 1.1 billion up to the present 4 were to be put in place this year. It seemed to be so ill - thought - out that disability are simply terrified. Does the senator realize that there is a bit of a difference between whether we're talking about a dollar against a dollar or a minimum foundation advance to 300,000 dollars, tax and impairment? I'd like to ask you what. A senator has come to realize that what is being asked here is to meet the rights of about 30% of the population that have truly been broken equal in the past ten years. There's not trying to break equals on one or any other, but I guess that's what. A senator observed that in the so - called biography contracts these groups are certainly not included. So at first, I'd like to ask him if these parties, for example. Be positive when reviews came with the suggestion and whether or not. A senator realized that this is a Senate resolution, where we hide a minister to look after it or if he thinks we're here with a bill, where we have to work on how we're going to finance it. However, it may be fun to assume that this is one of five cases in the so - called well - being package of the real people that we recommended at the outset. We're so lucky that this is the only case we had after a great jap, jam, and asked for negotiations to take out a committee. Now it's here, why. Senator. I'll ask you something next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. First of all, what the senator entered last time. I simply don't know if there were any other cases from the Floki people that were ready for review from committees, but I knew that this case was a response first. Regarding how we consider 4 billion, or whether we call them 2.9, or what we call them, and the senator naturally knows that in financial programmes, these 4 billion will continue to be available, not just this year, but the next, and the next, and the next, and the next, and the next, and the next. This is a permanent change in donations made to the party. That's what the Senator knows, and that's why I specifically mention it. [[Up front.]] Part of this amount is used to meet a cent in return, not entirely, as is the case with pensioners. There's 45 far more money than a dollar, and it's 65, respectively, across from a bird's farm. I suppose the Senator agrees with me in that it would, of course, be best for both groups to do the same. But this motion isn't about it. It's about asking a minister to make a bill that would guarantee the inadequacy of the first 300,000 dollars. for all. I don't see how you could create a bill that was about something else. How should law-employ specific groups of people who have any tax per cent other than others? That's part of the problem with the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm going to start by saying that I'll be happy to write this bill, that's the least thing in the world, and so there's no way out. We're talking about, like, cot. A senator mentioned earlier, 90,000 k. which will be fully implemented immediately before the next election if dead bodies occur, which is $7,500. in a month to the poorest social group, the group where 121⁄215% of children live in poverty, the group that has been left behind. The main weight in this proposal is correction of the spontaneous development of these social groups, less than 30% in the past ten years. They haven't been allowed to follow the 69th grade. Social security legislation requiring them to receive their once-a-year remuneration according to national pay development. It was, for example. violation of an equal rule when possible. The members of Congress received a 43% increase in their salary? Is it a violation of equality when the president of the Country Reservation receives a double reward in five years? When the bank's bank manager's salary rises by 1.2 million, that is a violation of equality. K. In a year or in violation of human rights, do thousands of people go beyond the poverty limit? This is the work of men, and that is all. Let me reiterate that I will gladly put my arms around the matter and build this bill personally and in prison myself if you don't feel up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u131	Mr. President. It is very important, and I have often said in a speech before, that at any session there are advocates of the greater number of people and that members of Congress take up a fight, each with their nose, and understand the groups under which they stand. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Gorand will agree with this. The senator has fought for the interests and affairs of people with disability and older people, and she is to be honored for them. Sadly, this does not change the fact that the case presented here does not know that it can be completed as it is suggested. Regarding the senator's comments on dress and grooming, I came into it in my indirect history to choose more than just the wages people earn. A heart is also involved when curses are dropped. A heart also includes paying less for medical or dental services. [[Up front.]] As a result, the total context must be viewed. I think the Senator and I agree completely that the task of improving the benefits of those who have least in this community is a lifelong project, and I know that the Senator agrees with me on that course we should try to move on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u132	A respectable president. We'll discuss a council decree of 300,000 bucks. Minimum extension. It's a little weird. The manager of the greater part would refer to the tax taxes if we watched what taxation was like in 1988 when those individuals were taxless. At that time, pensions from the Social Services Department were tax-free, and even the rest of the money was in the pension fund. It tells us that the discount has never been followed. There are huge taxes, and I'll take it later when I give my speech. Then there are 65 pennies, in turn, against a dollar of 4 billion. How did this work out? Is it equal putting it out, and then it cuts out special rents and a variety of compensations, so people bring zero out of it? What is that equal? Is there any such thing as a lack of employment 30,000 dollars? higher encore than micro-piercing? Is there any such thing as getting 80,000 bucks? A Christmas bonus while the others get $44,000.? You talk about equality, but in between, it's completely ignored. I think this presentation is very strange. This is a synonym that goes to the minister and if it needs to be changed, a minister can change the tax environment and anything. It's not like it's a bill that's going to become a law. Rather, we're pointing out this way because it's totally lame to know how this group is treated. He's been waiting. He hasn't had any increases. The taxes on him are large-scorrowed and diminished and all of them. It's got to do something, and we're trying to do it. This would make the system very simple. Hv. A senator must agree with me that the system would be very simple if it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. The Senator mentioned taxes, tax limits, personal discounts, and changes in standards and boundaries in recent years. I agree with the senator that there has become a change in our current system to take more taxes from the lowest wage than we should. For that reason, we are now changing the tax system into a three - step tax system in an effort to answer some of its views. We can fully agree that everything you do cannot be done at once. You cannot take all the steps at any given time. However, this is one very important step, I want to mean, and I think that what. A senator would agree that these include groups that need special attention and by general action. What is suggested in the suggestion is not a general procedure. I reiterate what I said in answer to what I said. paritaprevir Sæland, a single policy on taxes and taxes has to be valid for all social groups, and therefore these groups cannot be taken out of parentheses as suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We've created a completely amazing system, the social security system. I'd say we're simplifying it by taking out this impairment. We're about to go for 10,000. tax and decrepitable for disability now for Christmas. Why did we do that? It may be 4 billion to have 65 dollars in return, instead of a dollar in return, all in the State Box or in the local box. What kind of equality is saying to people that we're going to help them, and then all of this disappears? In some cases, the country society will come and also cut off when the state is cut down, as with the Christmas bonus. Because he's taxable, he'll be completely damaged if you like. with a special future in the state, and then the special compensation for the housing system in the rural community is also impaired. In the end, that kind of money can get lost. So, isn't there something wrong with us? Do we not have to take this system into complete review and simplify it very much to stop kidding sick people who cannot protect themselves? They take the money and think it's getting something really good, but in the end, they may lose their money to receive these hunger lice, as I call it, what they get in their pockets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u135	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is grateful for the struggle he has hosted in a chamber for the desperate and those who may not be allowed to do so in the community. Of course you know why. A senator that, basically, we agree that the decrease in pension and in the social security system is not allowed to put people in a poverty trap. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees. On the other hand, when we have limited funds, we have to make arrangements so that they will come to them first and most of all need it. That's even. conducted with the social security system, like what? A senator came in, and I am not convinced that the simplicity like this would be the best use of the government's resources. If we have a requirement to make an improvement for someone with 500,000 bucks. from social security would be tax-free up to 300,000 dollars. would the State really be denying certain funds that could be used to improve the interests of the worst. In a system where we do not have endless funds, we must try to direct the most urgent ones where the need is greater. On this basis, I do not see how it is possible to make a suggestion. ... aman. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u136	A respectable president. We're dealing with a proposal for action at $300,000. A minimum social security advance, and I'm going here for a smaller share of the welfare committee. It's a conquistador of the Stockholm people, ours. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. The proposal suggests that the Minister of Social Affairs prepares to present the bill that full of disability pensions, pensions and pensions guarantee 300,000 dollars. Minimum improvement per month tax and inaccessible. Advisorys and members of the Committee were generally in favor of the proposal's contents and agreed that it would be necessary to ensure adequate production of energy and sensibilities and that it would take into account the development of pay. In this context, the committee was, among other things, a member of the committee. pointed out that unemployment rates had gone considerably higher than social security pensions. In this case, it is rapidly miscalculated at the end of unemployment improvements in thought as short-term resources, while the pensions of public security long-term resources for individuals who, at all times, have no way of improving their interests, as set out by the Corporate Community reference from 28 October 2019 to budgets for 2020. The smaller portion is in the front, the ideal microenergy donor is not able to comply with pay development, which has led to certain failures. This reminds us that pensioners cannot take advantage of the same resources as wage workers, such as strike rights. In my opinion it is important to ensure a minimum tax- and impaired progress in pensional patients. Then the memory assessment of the section suggests that these include the necessary dresser reforms and the importance of the laying before the end of the current legislation. If we think about how logical it would be to have a 300,000 k. We have to watch that, as I pointed out in my last speech, that in 1988, at the start of the market payment, the government's insurance agency was free of charge, and people had up to 30% to pay their pensions. Today, microenergy pensioners pay from $36,000. and up to 67,000 bucks. I'll tax you. It's those who have the highest disability compensation. This tells me that in recent decades, a clean and mature tax increase has taken place. In fact, it may also be looked at from the other angle, that if the unrewarding hudging would have done much better than that, the tax numbers would probably be even higher. The personality discount was never accompanied by it, it was left behind. As a result, he's a little jumpy today. If given correctly, the number would likely be about 300,000 k. ... whowouldhaveno tax. It has to be said as it is that this shows black in white how much tax recovery has increased on those to whom it should least be paid. On a discussion by the Committee, she received two talks, one from the Qualified Community, which states under the permission of a president: AS A result of a suggestion, many of the movers agree that pensioners have been left behind during the last few years, and it is necessary to add a considerable amount of money to this group. As the United States has noted, the budget primes of recent years have resulted in a significant return from other groups in the community. Is it so today that the pensions of an unemployable person who does not enjoy domestic replacements have less than basic employment benefits, but many have to live in pensions for years or even for the rest of their lives while unemployment is short - term provisions. IN THE United States alone, members of the Parliament encourage all members to agree on this proposal so that funds will be set out in order to ensure that all pensioners will be able to perform decent human living. There is no difference in the fact that the Quantum Community takes its heart to this council resolution and also points out that we have a spectacular system at the same time as we are told that this is a violation of some consistent rules of rule because unemployed students are not following them. Unemployment is temporary, no one expects anyone to be out of work all their life. I hope they don't think it's like that. I also hope that we're not built up that we'll have some loans for the rest of our lives. It doesn't make sense, it says itself. However, it is clear that a large group of disability workers remain in disability for the rest of their lives and lack the ability to work. This is the group we're talking about. You can't say that this is just a pact proposal that can go to a minister who can accept it and make things okay. In the second review of Developmental Help, it says under the permission of a president: Thanks to the Development Committee for receiving the Parliament's resolution and to want to share the following with a health committee and the Council on it. The group of people who live at the latest in Icelandic society are those who have no income other than government insurance benefits. This improvement is due to unexplained and illogical reasons considerably lower (about 30,000 K.) But unemployment gains, which no one is too happy of. The fact is, however, that unemployment rates are temporary while disability workers are in this crisis for years and many all their lives, without opportunities to earn money. In recent years, microengineerers have repeatedly been left behind. The increase offered on the budget for 2020 is much below the minimum wage increase. It is therefore inevitable to remind the government and the Council of 69th par. track No. 100/2007, on social security, which reads: social security, as well as pay Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22nd But let it be changed annually according to the budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. With reference to the above, the National Society describes the development aid to the proposal and encourages the welfare committee to promote its acceptance. According to the report in the greater part, the proposal is not reimburseable, expensive, and essentially lacking funding. But just look at the story, all I have to do is look up a speech I held here recently in connection with a camp loan fund. They're dividing up the Human Fortress and the Substitute Bank and setting up an apartment loan fund especially in the management of financial ministers. What are we talking about there? It's a mistake. Someone made a mistake somewhere that I think cost us at least 140 billion. They can do well over 200 billion. Nobody's talking about it, nobody hitting their head with the stone because of it. Where were all the calculations at that time? If you saw that this mistake did not take place, it seems to me that there is plenty of capital. If you can make such a mistake and push your shoulders over it, over 140,200,000 billion, I don't see that any catch should simply be financed. These funds would last a few years to pay for changes in the social security system, but this is not a cost. Nor should we ever view this as an expense, always calling it an expense if we are trying to get people out of poverty and prevent children from being in poverty. On the other hand, if government presidents or members of Congress have to get a huge salary, no one will talk about expenses. [[Up front.]] It just seems very fair and okay, it's only natural to raise everyone, double your salary for Landing, no problem, just fair because the director has such a lot of responsibility. But where is the responsibility? Is not every government responsible for year after year to make sure that the poor don't get the helm, their taxes are enlarged - and who is responsible for the damage? Let's talk about the damages. The first thing I did when I arrived at the council was to make sure that taxes were stopped and that there was a reduced strength to drugs and all kinds of medical equipment that people needed. It was adopted because people suddenly realized the fact that they were handing 10,000 people with one hand, but even taking 15,000 with the other. What kind of violence is it that you can create a system that says to people: Hey, we're gonna help you, we're going to give you a $10,000 call to make it easier for you, so you can buy yourself some medicine or whatever you need, and when that person takes it a year later he's taken over 15,000? What kind of help is that? I say it's financial violence and it's against the constitution. It's so violent. To think that years after years they can do this to sick people who can't defend themselves is absolutely amazing, and we at the High Council for shame. So they say, "Hey, we can't do this because of the 90-year-old rule, we're breaking the rule of 90. And then I'll be stopped, and I'll be speechless because it tells itself that it doesn't make any sense. I really hope that they'll start seeing more than this blonde they've seen in connection with the 10,000-thousand-the-thousand-lums call, they'll just get a light bouncer and see that the best thing they can do is to agree with this, 300,000 tax- and impairment-free, and then we'll just go to the simple system. Then the damages are gone, and people can begin to live decent lives. Unfortunately, we still have thousands of children in poverty, thousands of people living under poverty, and we have a large group in desperate condition. There seems to be some law in it, some inexhaustible, and I hope that men stop kissing themselves by putting 4 billion into a crown that does not yield alone or anything except in the cards and are about to do what they've done now and have already figured out, such as the 10,000-call, putting it in a tax and inequities, and now putting in the tax and indelicate 300,000 call, tax- and impairmentless Christmas bonus. Discrimination must be stopped. If anyone gets 80,000 bucks. A Christmas bonus is for everyone to get 80,000 bucks. Christmas bonus. Don't double-discriminate people. If the Generals are in desperate need of 180,000 bucks. A Christmas bonus needs 180,000 bucks. Christmas bonus. We're supposed to stop this indiscretion. Where's the balance? I'd like to hear governments over what kind of equality is in that we get 180,000 call, an out-of-work 80,000, the ones with long-lost babies a 60,000 call, and the desperate $44,000. [[Up front.]] Who found out this rule of 90? I hope he comes here and explains to me how he found her out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u137	President. Of course, I support this good thing. $300,000. Minimum improvement is not much. A large proportion of the micro-organization workers have children, so that the approval of this proposal might help with them. V.E.G. A social minister says that he is interested in eliminating the poverty of children, and this synonym would be a good step toward that goal, but if you consider a greater part of the health committee, the step is not to be taken, and the reason is only to be taken. In real life, President, at the Committee Department of Health Services, there are shameful excuses. It combines weak excuses for not doing anything. One of them is that there is no cost to the Senate arrangement. It's just a council proposal, not a law bill, President. If this proposal was approved, the Ministry of Social Affairs would have to submit a bill and so on at home, not here. In addition, it says by permission of the President: The rationalization proposal includes only microenergy, rehabilitation, and pensioners, but not other groups, such as unemployed, maternity, or working people. In this way, there are strong doubts about the recommendation of the proposal to live up to the rule of 90 years ago. To argue that the contents of this proposal will violate in some way the Constitution's equal rule is at best outback. Of course, the above opinion does not support the way this offense shows itself. It cannot be done. Helping those in need is not a violation of a rule of equality. It's a full-scale decapitation of the rules of 90-year-olds and what they represent. For example, if we want to talk about violations of the 90's, it is to keep microsurgents and sensibilities under minimums for years and decades that may be the most clear example of discrimination. Not to ensure minimal progress makes it necessary for us to cause them to become involved in society and to limit their ability to pursue the necessary service and to participate in it. It is not discrimination to improve the interests of people who have lived in discriminatory ways for a long time, even though other groups of society also enjoy such discrimination under government rule. Everything's turned to the head here, Mr. President. If the desire of more than a share of the welfare committee had been made to improve the welfare of disability, older citizens, and others in need than to find difficulties due to the 90th rule, an adjustment was required to allow 300,000 dollars. Minimum contributions also include unemployed, maternity clinics, and working workers. Of course, such things are not to be found here, for we all know that this is an excuse for the greater part of not allowing good things to come from someone other than himself. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u138	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by saying that we in Floki's people have repeatedly pointed out during the present term that the government's actions, whether in the field of dental health or in whatever other matters are being assigned to representatives of the government that are supposed to improve their worst interests in society, are not going far enough. It tells itself, when we have just received a report, on February 28, on the assessment of Icelandic children's position in Kolbeinn Francis H. Stefánsson, that there are 12,95% of children with varying degrees of shortage. He specifically points out the most painful social group in the report, which is a group of disability. When we have this in our arms and are going to try to justify it in some way that we here, the legislator with the power of the money, are not a town, and are grudging to meet this group, we have a potential violation of an order of equality. I've heard all kinds of ideas, but this probably tops most of them. At first, too, I would like to point out that this case is about 300,000 k. The tax and inadequacy for social security workers who have nothing other to rely on than this forward is one of the five subjects we've already recommended in the fall of our so-called well-being package. One of the five matters that will not be brought in unsuspectingly is the exact way we are going to finance it. I expected the matter to go no further, and I'm just happy to get it inside because everything is being put to sleep on a committee. It's a bad reason to defend any government that's already paid votes against granting a minister permission to submit a bill at 300,000 dollars. The poorest people in the country, tax and poor. It must be a terrible cause to defend, I'll tell you only that, and especially for a government led by the left movement of a green bid that has given itself out to want to meet those whose feet are in this society. But that's what it's all about. Here are all kinds of items, e.g. $7,500. a third tax rate reduction, which will be carried out immediately before the next election. Then you can be proud of the highest peak and say, " Look what we did. ' We dropped your taxes by $7,500, but that's gonna cost 23 billion dollars. Is this a normal setting for financial gain? I say, "No, reducing taxes by $7,500 isn't the normal priority of the budget. " After more than a year and a half at the same time the government piles in all kinds of taxes and additional expenses on the public in the country. I don't even have an idea flight to mention all the taxes and all the spells that are now being imposed on the population. We at The Gang of the People opposed current financial programs, including because funds were missing in order to correct the combined blundering of a pensioner's social security. Nothing was done with it. What does it mean, a respectable president, when a group of members are left for ten years while others get autopsies? What was it like again after a crash? Has anyone forgotten the crash? We've never properly renovated it, and we're certainly not against the society we're fighting for here and now, which we're trying to draw up here to 300,000 bucks. Minimum extension. No, it should be linked to others who have much better living and a much better chance of survival. One of the five cases in the so - called well - being package is at least 350,000. paid for working people in the country to prevent such sad stories as read in a magazine the other day, about a young woman working in a nursing home suspect. She works a full-time job, a single mother with a little girl rents a 40 square hole for 150,000 bucks. a month, and it will be paid 240,000 bucks. If she's lucky. To think, a respectable president, at the same time, speaks the highest. The secretary of finance on how we're gonna be positive, how much we're gonna score at OECD, how great we're doing. It is always good to be able to live on average and to minimize how many tens of thousands of Icelanders really have to bind. In fact, it is quite indistinguishable as to how low the idea - flight is in the majority of barriers. A welfare committee, but as I said, you have to try to invent something that might sound good here, something that might work as if it were reasonable that it is not at all. We commit a minister to prepare a bill for him to take it into his arms, to get his department's cost evaluations approved. Besides, it's best to assign the Ministry to prepare such a cost assessment, not true, although I have volunteered to do so in the past. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson that I would like to write this bill myself because he wasn't sure it was possible, it would be so full of shit and a difficult subject. A group of people have suggested gatherings that would undergone expeditation as a result of correction of the human blunder of social security to a pensioner. If the General's will correct the cumulative status, there is no problem. We've pointed out some things. Various routes are available. Who doesn't know the sale of government property? Who does not know how we have been sold far under cost? I'm not even going to get into it here and now to who, for whom, and why. That's not what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna let it lie completely between things. But the common people speak and rarely lie publicly. Of course, when confronted with students and jobseekers, we will joyfully accept any suggestions aimed at securing their interests. That's what it says. However, this suggestion is reserved for one purpose, one set of material, and it is to guarantee the poorest people in the land 300,000 k. tax and inadequacy. I have been in that situation myself, spending more and less time there until I arrived at the council. I've had to watch my four children and worry about Christmas. I know what it's like not to be able to give them anything stirring and thank them for being able to feed them. There are thousands of such parents out in society today. It is all man's work and all it takes to change it is the will of the rulers. And who's in charge? Independence category, forwarding party, and left movement ◯ green supply. At their command, the situation is the same as it is today. It is for them to change her for the better. It's their job to show that they meant something with what they were talking about before the last election. It is not enough to speak of 300,000 k. A minimum wage, a respectable president, when the knots are arranged for $42,000. They are taken of them directly to the state again in the form of taxes. It is incorruption that the majority of the welfare committees use evidence against this suggestion that it violates the rule of 90. The proposal is to work against the persistent discrimination of the system to carers of public security, which does not guarantee that the Allied Committee will not provide the terms of pensioners with pay. That is exactly what the suggestion aims to correct the accumulated jaw. The collective crawling of Social Security is the actual violation of the sovereignty principle and nothing else. The government has shown no intention to correct that rule, but rather, it uses the rule of equality to back up the worst. What kind of song is this, Mr. Honorable President? Why would this greater portion that has come to the Constitution's equal rule have forgotten 1 mg? 76. g. The constitution that makes it clear: ▪ All its needs must be legalized for sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar experiences? Why would he forget this article of the Constitution and make virtually nothing of it? The proposal is by no means restricted in any way by the interests of unemployed people, those who work at birth, or those who work for them. It's a very different matter. Birth stock and unemployment benefits are temporary resources, however, the pensions of social security tickets are a permanent guarantee. So here, then, there are physical payment classes, and they cannot be determined by an equal rule. I really look forward to a vote. I look forward to a roll call. I look forward to seeing the people in the country really want the Lawgiver and the financier to meet our smallest brothers and sisters. I allow myself to doubt that those who say no ever knew what it is to be poor have ever had to worry about Christmas because they can't even give their baby shoes for Christmas, let alone. Every incident the poor family needs to make, which is not a good idea to make, such as buying shoes, suitcases, clothes, coats, costs too much, and they can't afford it. What a joy it would be in my heart if it were. Councilmen and the highest. For one day, ministers realized how poor we are in the rich land we live in. I did not want to be the man who makes the decision to deny justice to these people, refusing to participate in the prosperity that exists here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for her talk and advice on the best interests of the people in the country we need to care for much better. I remind you of our Conspiracy proposals where we go as far or as far as the price line. This will cost about 38 billion if we correct in a way that is, of course, a lot of money, but we are talking about groups in society, even if we are not to do so, about disability on the other hand and about older citizens. These groups are in terrible condition. According to the older citizen's community, only about 26% of the pensioners reach 300,000 dollars. Minimum revenue per month. About half of the micromasks are below 220,000 k. and 70% of the sufferers earn less than 300,000 dollars. in a month, and that's before we start talking about the tax. It's twisted, it's ridiculous, it's like what it's like. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson came in earlier, that even 36,000,46,000,700,000 k. I tax a month of my earnings. Before the last election, the last election, and even the election there, that minimum income was promised, 300,000 bucks, and I'd like to ask why. A senator whether to destroy this possibility now and whether it will bring about the reductions promised for the present government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson for his counter-sponsore. I'm going to start by saying, of course, 7500 bucks, especially when extra taxes are added to the public by still higher amounts, so that afterward people don't stand in just the same amount of minus, people who don't have a knife or a spoon. With regard to the 38 billion cost package we are aware of. A senator and others shared us with enough money. We do not have to start a national fund while trying to get people out of poverty. In recent years, we can benefit from some 110 billion upcoming land induction interest payments; we have received 127 billion from the Bank of Lands. If we want to, we can prioritize money for the people of the country and put it first, as I know it. A senator deeply agrees with me. What has been said about the increase of election stores has been shown through the ages that there are poor imitations that can stand in front of an international nation every four years, and sometimes smaller, and promising gold and green forests knowing that some people will believe it and will be tempted to put X to them while the rest of us better know that there is nothing to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. She's very clear, and there's no question where she wants to put her hat. The groups we are considering do not have a strong contract rights, and those of us who are involved have not helped us properly in these matters. They've fallen behind in terms of elections. We know that. We're having a bad time with them. I'm asking why. A senator as to how their interests have been made, compared to others, did not improve as they should. Why have they been so drawn back? Why don't we do better? Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson used a talk when following the Commission opinion that there may be a review of social security in this regard. That's the whole thing, isn't it? Don't we need to take this up a little bit on a broad ground? It's also the damages and how we've gotten them involved in these difficult systems, such as wiggling them. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson has been telling us about the use of a speech chair. Don't we need to take this up a little bit? We need each working hand, every powerful hand, whoever can offer something, an opportunity to be worthy and to appreciate it, whether in the case of disability or of the elderly. Three members of the Parliament have now proposed a number of judicial decisions that, in fact, take place. on the concerns of the elderly in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u142	A respectable president. What can we do, and how does all of this stand? Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The situation is that nothing is done for these groups. They're not just in a bad contract, they don't have any contracts. This group of people feels as though they are third - rate members of society. We've been called the disability load by many executives. That's what desperate people call the "excel" file because we're not returning it. After you have worked and slaved and paid taxes and duties, no one is wondering what you had done before you were crushed or injured. You've turned into a rundown, and your feet have been lifted off. What we're talking about, too, and I'd like to mention to you. paritaprevir The Brjánsson's Godnail is that we in Floki's people have suggested a falling personality discount to get extra money for exactly this. When we talk about the priorities of funds, we've said: "All right, me and the senators are on the super-duce, maybe not if we're going to aim at some governor in town, they're all worth a lot more money. It was a little bit of an addiction to me because you don't have a single single word when people work in a town that works for the State are even more rewarded than the prime minister of the country himself. Falling personality discounts include, as we ordered, that as soon as they enter the high-gravity tax level, the person simply no longer receives a personal discount. He doesn't have to do what he does to the person who gets paid $230,000 a.m. We want to get the people up to 300,000. Minimum improvement by moving money into the system to those most in need. We call it a falling character discount, and he's just one part of how we can, if any will, put things through. As I say, this is a work of men. It's in the hands of the current government, and let's see how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u143	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party from what? A financial and business committee and I'm going to allow myself, considering that this is a short committee opinion, reading it. This is a committee opinion with a bill on billing to legalize the rights and duties of the citizens of the State, No. 70/1996, with subsequent changes. This case has been called an increase in retirement. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Andri Valur Ívarsson, of the Coalition of Colleges and of the Hrannar Már Gunnarsson of BSRB. The committee received reviews from the Protestant Alliance and the BSRB. The bill suggests a legal increase in the peak of government staff retirements from 70 years to 73 years. Similar matters have occurred several times in recent years, as was the 37th case in the 149th legislature. Advisorys and members of the Committee were generally in favor of the topic of the bill and agreed that there was a requirement for working days to be considered, including Based on Labour Code, No. 86/2018, and other age-related rights. However, according to principle 52, it was noted that consultation would have to take place. The law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state, which reads: In accordance with the legislation of these non-aggression regulations, as well as their review, the Alliance of state-and-city personnel, the League of academics and the European Union of Iceland shall be able to observe and sing for their partners on the issues of conflict that may arise. The Commission agrees with the above views and considers that it is necessary for a complete review of the law and the rules of working in agreement with the above parties as well as other persons who may have a interest in the case, such as the European Union of older citizens and the National Association of older citizens. At that visit, there will be a difference. Whether the maximum age law should be removed and other criteria for appropriate individuals replaced. So the Commission aims to consult and other work on a review of the above points will begin immediately, at the beginning of 2020, and that the Ministers provide legislation with proposals for a change in the autumn Council. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be referred to the government. Under this committee's opinion write with me why. Óli Björn's Kárason, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ólafur, Þór Gunnarsson's son, Jóhann Friðrik's Friðriksson, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzzal, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Smári Mccarthy. So the committee suggests that this case will be referred to the government and will work even further. All members of the committee are positive about this matter and feel that it is important to reconsider the rules of retirement, since there have been many changes in demographics. It should also be possible that this is not the case with the use of pension rights. It stays the same. I've chosen to consider this a matter of freedom, i.e. The freedom and choice of individuals to work longer even though they are still talking about their age at 73 years. It should be noted that during discussions with the Committee, the question was, Is this really a reason to make the dates clear? I'd also like to add this, a respectable president, that I've long believed that I needed a complete review of the staff law called, or a law on the rights and duties of public employees. In fact, I would have wanted to go so far as to say that the law could be abolished, except, of course, of course, that it is clear to officials where it is necessary to have laws on rights and duties during the time of order and other such. To this end, we encouraged the government and, in fact, expect a review of these laws, especially on the subject of age. However, in view of the recent events and various discussions about the rights and duties of public employees, I feel that it is most appropriate to accept even more of the laws of this law as a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u144	Mr. President. It's a well-to-do case. 129 people have appeared at the General Assembly three times, if I recall correctly. The person here has measured this matter three times, and to the news that the committee's opinion can give us is torn between two emotions. On the other hand, the impatientness of not being able to make this bill unchanged by law at the end of the year. It is not only the one standing here who is impatient about the end of this matter but also the large group of people involved. On the other side of the handle bar, however, is the voice that says that there is a need for legal application, a careful review of each case, a careful consideration, and a consultation with the person involved. In this respect, I am fully satisfied that this bill, as it says, refers to the government for what is presented at the end of the Commission, by the permission of the President, by the permission of the President, and by other reviews on the above grounds, will begin immediately at the beginning of 2020, and that Ministers will submit a legal hearing with proposals for a change to the fallage of the Council. The man standing here trusts the highest. The financial and economic minister is very successful in working this case on these grounds. To tell you the truth, I count on it, trust it, and believe it to the highest. Economic and economic secretary will immediately begin the next year's consultation so that the summer can be used to write a bill, present it at the beginning of the autumn Parliament, and issue it as a law from the General Assembly by the end of 2020. I think it matters a lot, Mr. President, because this concerns a considerable number of government employees who have been sold to pay to retire in the month after they become 70 years, no matter what their physical condition may be, and whether their minds are behind them to continue working. They have been legally forced to retire after that time. Many have been identified in both the language of both here and that of others as a waste of talents, knowledge, and value. The head of an older citizen's Union has put it this way: "You don't go past the last day of sale, even if you add one year to your life. " That is exactly what this issue is all about, correcting the injustices involved in that one group of workers at work is sold off 70 percent, and secondly, we cannot afford to waste their talents and value. Because there has been a very long debate in the Middle Class for a very long time, I expect we will attend very strongly that a minister will present a bill very early in the fall. We will be careful about this, and, in the meantime, we will bring in more matters that concern the elderly, how they earn their income, how they pay their taxes, and how they now have to pay 100,000 dollars. Free income target that's not encouraging a job. All of this needs to be considered, and the middle class will not leave its mark on such issues. To say this, I am delighted that the matter is now carefully viewed and carefully reviewed, to consult with its concerned people, and to produce a new bill at the beginning of the fall, so that we can live with what I said earlier, to agree that the older people in the state can work longer if they have the mind, ability, and will. It's a matter of justice, and then we'll stop the waste that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u145	At the end of the votes that now go hand in hand and are quite large, and at the very end. The prime minister will recommend a hearing and that we vote for it will take a short break at a meeting, closer to this moment, for half an hour or so for committees they're going to meet. After we have stopped, we return to the program for a discussion that will be completed. The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting than the Senate is for obvious reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u146	V.E.G. President. We're paying a vote on a bill's confirmation of a second time in line with the official financial law instead of the last budget. I think it's important to draw here, first of all, that the bill is much simpler than when we agreed earlier this year on a government bill for 2017 which contained a stock account. Now the bill is merely a reference to the total published bill and a request that the account be confirmed by the Council. This is not a reference to information related to founding interest accounts nor to the Alleglerary's sources for the transfer of sources or excess fees from year to year. Second, sign and review without notice, including the U.S. to illustrate the financial status of the state at the end of 2018, the survival of the year, and the change in handmade funds. And, of course, it is positive and important to have a positive management budget of 84 billion and a higher financial standing allow for a more efficient approach to the economy without compromising the basic state's financial resources on sustainability and safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u147	Mr. President. We're here to vote for a change in law called temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland. There are issues that concern the Western nations, cooperation and harmony. This bill is in the spirit of building up, helping and favouring but not just that, not just reason, fairness, and economic interests for Iceland and those nations who become members of the remuneration system in force. It's Iceland in the relatively rare position of being the big brother in the partnership. It's in the spirit of good northern cooperation, so of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u148	Mr. President. Here we vote for simple acts and a change in various layers of food. It was decided to wait for the Food Fund to be formed, as it were, with this bill that was to unite the AVS, a fund within the water supply department, and the Aviation Fund for agriculture. It was decided to have a better conversation with the partner in the agricultural sector and to better control the role of the Manufacturer Fund within the new Food Fund. The Agency has appointed a major role, and they wanted to ensure that his interests would be guaranteed within this new Food Fund, which is meant to bring a bill about next year and set up the Food Fund. It is very important to have a law on food in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u149	A respectable president. There are a number of interesting things in this bill to make up the simple rule book, which is a cause of joy, good rules, and pressure that may come from. ... throughEES Rules. The bill was also interesting, as it was on the part of a minister who then withdrew into the country along with the majority of the Committee on Food Fund. I'm sorry that this step has not been taken now and that I started working together as soon as possible with the Food Fund, which, in my opinion, means an enormous opportunity for Icelandic agriculture, European food products, fishing, and agriculture to go on that assignment. It's not like it's just gotten here. I've been working on this, I've been talking to the stakeholders, and it's time to make this decision and put it into practice, and I'm sorry that more of the Committee, the government groups, with loyal support from the Central Party, wants to postpone this case. I'm sorry, but there's something else here, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u150	A respectable president. We're taking care of a change in food law, but food reserve is one of the factors in it. It is a public fund designed to strengthen development and innovation in the production and implementation of food from agriculture and fishing grounds. It was suggested that two funds would be united in it, the product fund of agriculture, and the AVS research fund for the fishing road. As we progress, we rejoice in the establishment of the Food Fund, for this is part of the government's counter-impliatory activities in the freezing of frozen meat on the land and the establishment of a new Food Fund on a broad foundation. As a result, the fund was called in. We can expect the situation to come back after the years, and the anxiety that appeared will be met, for example. in the review of Iceland's Farm Association where it's a contract condition for the Agency's collection. In this regard, contributions are placed in a cross contract on the general conditions of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u151	A respectable president. This article may be a manifestation of the complexity of the system. I'm the highest. A minister to proceed with this matter in an effort to simplify the food - related routine. It's too complicated, and then I mean that they're on many hands, not just from institutions, but from cooperation and surveillance on the part of the state and rural society on the other hand. I encourage the Minister to record this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u152	Mr. President. This is where we pay a vote on livestock and customs. We know what has been in the import of unemployable goods in agriculture. The advisory committee that has been there and the implementation of the imports that the Minister has since decided. We are going into a new arrangement where we see how this has been over the past ten years. We have also made adjustments in the matter beneficial. We've stopped importing large amounts of pig pages, and we're looking at how it's being carried out for the high imports that came into agreement with this EU-tfolkvota. We also change the gardening arrangement and draw together where the import of vegetables is to be opened, look to the experience on how to succeed, and set in a revision code.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u153	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill on major changes in customs and their distribution. One of the most dramatic changes is to establish the annual distribution of tollovate. The Committee made good changes on the bill, and I think it's important because we're going through this system. We proposed close monitoring of this trend and the development of customs protection in general. We increased toll protection on certain species of vegetables, such as potatoes and carrots, important to us. We took out the pigs, and these changes are important as well as a period of seasonal agriculture. We arranged for a flexible system, for what we don't want and not a vegetarian is that we see a lack of certain products, so the flexibility needs to be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u154	President. In 1st. Arrangement has been implemented for tollquatans, i.e. The minimum price is a high price which means that there is a potential reduction in consumer prices unless the store itself does, at least. as has often happened when Customs have been reduced. This has not necessarily paid off. But it's good for the Minister to suggest this. Then there are other changes over time, etc. On Customrots, I suggest that all who do not want to increase their food bills in the country's homes resist any changes made by the Committee. All the Commission's proposals press on to customs, which means higher prices to consumers. Otherwise, I just want to say that more than a part of the employment committee is looking after the temporary interests of farming in the country, but it's not good to have these tollocates. They should be taken and placed in direct support. The farmers, the farmers, who do their business make money, make money for consumers, and the government heals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u155	Mr. President. Of course, in this matter that many other matters fail, more parts of the job committee fail. When the committee sees an opportunity to shut down the freedom and space only, she does so naturally. I agree with what happened earlier. The changes the committee has made in this case are not improving. They were saying that the end, end, and read, and they heard that at the council suddenly it will be appreciated instead of giving an estimate of who the market is best for what we move in to make up a piece of pork pages. They're calling for it. Among other things, in view of the increased number of tourists, the pig pages were demand a great deal, and a majority of the Parliament's committee knows better and so intends to make a choice. After this matter was handled by the Committee, what has been said has not improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u156	Mr. President. Here we are votes for a contract on the working conditions of cattle farming. It is an agreement with the article on this matter, and it is a pleasure that farmers have agreed to this agreement with 76% of the votes. This is increasing awareness, and it is evidently a firm desire for cow farmers to have a milk - producing greeting system. They voted for it, and they wanted 89% of them to keep the saying system. Now this agreement and a contract are being made to add to the awareness and help farmers in their management plans. It is known that much frost has been found in a milk market, so to speak, not completely in a group anyway. Young farmers may now be able to shop milk to prepare for their preparation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u157	President. First, I would like to mention how the matter was handled on the committee. We received this into the committee of December 3. It wasn't sent in a review process, it's called in three parties, first the Ministry, then a group of stakeholders, and then the Contestance Control. The competitive control just says that this will limit the production of milk and, therefore, is a market manager for it and that costs consumers. In fact, what this bill is about is taking on the demands of interest groups in milk production to stop tracking up the milk company, to back up it. The Kingdom has been working to trace it, and now it is due to be restored. This procedure at a council called just stakeholders at the table. [[The president calls.]] I asked, "What about the Neythal Association? I don't want to talk to them. " They have now spoken something about it when the matter was in their consultation, they were told: 'Bascally have consumers and their interests no opportunity to come to the table.' It's just running through with milkmakers' interests in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u158	Mr. President. This is a very controversial domestic agreement, so it would have been reasonable that this case had received more coverage. It's an agreement with farmers, it was a vote, and according to the contract, we must follow it. I agree with what's been said, there's no fair treatment, but this contract has to be followed and, of course, the government needs to keep it. What is surprising, though, is that the government and government did not have enough to address other matters about the milk market while doing this that would precisely strengthen the rights of consumers. Then, for example, I'm talking about laying down the prices board and letting the common rules apply to the milk market. But the government had no initiative, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u159	Mr. President. This is a provision that increases market freedom, increases consumer rights, strengthens transparency, and encourages the general rules of competitive agriculture, milk industry values, and does not involve one company above another. The matter goes on, and it's interesting to see which categories are against it. Some are not surprising, but it is of course surprising that freedom groups do not strengthen this matter. Here, votes are paid against the general competitiveness of the dairy market in Iceland and, unfortunately, it seems to me to be cut down here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u160	Just to add just what was stated on the committee, I'd like to say that the parties were signed and agreed, but they are dependent on the approval of the Generals. That's what we're doing here, which means that these contracts are not binding until we accept them here so that the responsibility is here in the end to make it perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u161	A respectable president. We now vote for a stage art bill. This is a bill that aims to promote stage art and prepare them for what is most favorable. The committee, however, made significant changes in the original bill, which appeared before the committee, and I believe that the committee did it rather well. We thus say that stage art is a trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u162	A respectable president. There's a lot of good in this case, and I'm going to support it. I consider the majority of the changes made by the Committee to be improved, although I admit that it is a matter of concern regarding advertising in the national theater position after five years to bring them to a conclusion because other standards have been valid for cultural institutions. However, I simply respect the work and proposal of the committee and especially welcome this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u163	Mr. President. This is where we propose and agree with the expected seventh European Commission action programme on equality. It involves 24 tasks, but of course it is not exhaustive. I just want to kill on what we most handled on the committee because there were a number of factors, e.g. The importance of this, in view of the fact that we have agreed on the sexual autonomy that this program is designed to take to people of all genders where we belong and especially to vulnerable groups, to form disabled people and non - Israelites. There is also a national policy strategy for the Eastern Convention, a thorough investigation of equality within the police force, and improvement in the role of women in the profession. This is in line with what we have seen in sports to try to do better, and it is suggested that the remuneration of the remuneration of large groups of women, in comparison with other classes of education and responsibility that work in the public, which, in fact, would be carried out, be suggested here for special consultation groups. In this work on sexual equality, there are many good things to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u164	Mr. President. We pay here the vote for the increase in the length of small vessels. To protect the interests of professional groups and the full security, the need to change the demands of education for those who have the rights of a 40 - foot [12 m] ship to bridge the gap up to 15 meters [15 m] of ships. This is being carried out by review of the time each issue is under Regulation, No. 175/2008, in cooperation with law enforcement and institutions. A committee article highlights the need to ensure that the number of crews of small vessels conforms to the working order of each calm and that the rest time rules are fully respected. I encourage the House of Congress to join with what it is. Environment and Transport Committee to accept the bill unanimously.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u165	Mr. President. How happy I am that it seems that the World of Congress is now being united in this matter of Congress! It's a Senate case that I first proposed to the Council 15 years ago, and now, 15 years later, it seems to be passing through. Somehow, it is appropriate to unite with depression at this time of the year when all too many people are in pain. The percentage of older people suffering from depression is twice as high as it is in other age groups, and it appears that this group of people have committed suicide. Anxiety and depression should not be a normal complication of aging. The discomfort of older citizens involves not only that group very deep but also all its members and their families. Mr. President. Loneliness is not partial. Depression can strike all of us, but together we can overcome it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u166	Mr. President. This is an important suggestion and sheds light on a disease that does not automatically call for our attention. As noted by 1st, it has been in the dough for a long time. There's something we know about depression, that's all. We know that the use of antidepressants increases with age and is most common in people over 70 years of age. Living in a hospital and further in a nursing home is growing. There is limited research on its actual incidence in Iceland or how we react and what advice we have. So this proposal is long overdue, and I'm happy to give it my vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u167	A respectable president. We're paying a vote for a concierge proposal for the education of biomass and a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services. This proposal suggests that a health minister will be assigned to employ education for the general public in terms of histology and will have a review of the order of a highly targeted rehabilitation services that is of utmost importance because it is a chronic, common disease that affects up to 12,000 Icelanders at any given time. Over the years, prejudice has been linked to this disease. Women who are middle - aged are mostly with him, and it is important to approach the subject respectfully. It is possible to eliminate prejudice by means of progressive training on the disease, as well as by focusing on getting these people to work early and taking the disease as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u168	Mr. President. This bill to legalize a change in the law of surgeons and public health is not a big thing. It is characterized by a lack of self - control, but modesty is a beauty. This is an important change, called to organizational policies, information and focus on health care. There is a lack of record in the medical system. The surgeon general should make sure it's okay. This bill presents various offenders in that area. We know very little about the outcomes of a group of patients, which consider nearly 5,000 individuals, a group requiring professional specialisation, actually from the beginning of the analysis. We need to make things right. That means it's a good bill, and I'm a supporter of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u169	Mr. President. We vote for a small, superior bill, which, however, is of enormous importance. With the approval of this bill, we brought up brain disease during the discussion. We are, in effect, saying that these diseases are extremely important to us as a community and that we as a community want to know about those who can know. That's a lot of joy, and thank you very much. The welfare committee for work on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u170	President. We members of the Central Party are involved in this, and we will expect to accept it. However, we do not feel that it will go as far as we would like. That is true of more matters, and because we are in a time pressure, it is clear that we are to discuss the matter clearly at a meeting of the welfare committee. As the situation is now, I am not taking single parents into account, and I feel sorry, but I still say that it should be about the child and the children, so we are on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u171	Mr. President. Of course, we support a longer deliveryor. We want the birthworm to be 12 months, but I'm just coming up here to express disappointment in the government's tactics, which will drive this situation into the U.S.A. too late. A welfare committee could not earn it properly. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrunnaddóttir's late meeting. The welfare committee, where I understand that the major part is going to introduce us to one of the changes in the bill you would have thought was relatively simple, to extend and complete your womb properly, which makes it quite difficult for him to create quite a complication in the last stages. Of course, we'll vote on the case, but I'd like better tactics from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u172	Mr. President. We're here to vote on a crucial matter. What a great joy it is that as a community, we are taking this step! As noted by other members of Congress, the bill needs a review between discussions and the committees, but I reiterate what has happened to other members of the council, it is a great joy that we as a community should be taking this step. This is part of the government covenant as well as part of the lifetime contracts and is a cause of great joy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u173	A respectable president. It is a great joy that we shall be paying here votes on the prolongation of the birthworm, and, of course, I support it. However, I find it important in view of the recommendations made by some of the senators who have mentioned that it is clear that the overall reexamination of the delivery system is being carried out. We'll probably get that in a very careful discussion here when we get there and that job will be done. I have studied the work of the review committee, which is a question of all the rocks and analyzing all the things that need further attention on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u174	Mr. President. I agree with the above - mentioned people that it is a special joy for us to be in the place where we should have more than one place for an extended birthor to 12 months. We'll back that up. However, there is a particular point to consider, and it must be those with concern too, at least is my concern, even in a case that has this broad support and works as simple as this is, and has as long preparatory periods that can be complicated by the introductions of the committee that it needs to be brought back and discussed again. I'm asking for better work here, but we support the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u175	President. Of course, we support the prolongation of birthworm. It is time and need for change, but perhaps I now use this opportunity to direct it to ministers and senators regarding the work that is taking place now, an overall review of observation of maternity law, to consider that in this committee, as the situation is now, only members of the labour market, members of the Ministry of finance, and I might be forgetting someone, but these are the main members of the labour market. On that committee, for example, being an agent for children, but there is no spokesman for children, and there are no single - parent advocates, and in reality, few people who have different viewpoints are affected by different family patterns. Thus, the results of work with such a homogeneous group may not be the best result. So I want a minister to look at this, please, and make sure that we get from the important work conclusions that can be settled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u176	A respectable president. I agree with what others have said, this is a very strange thing, but I believe it completely, you can't help it, and I'm just hoping that the revision to be done in the maternity will be hurried and that the moment will be taken to take everyone. There are certain groups not included, and they have complained that they would not receive the birthmark as they should. It's a rather strange thing to do, but you have to accept it because it's important, but it has to be rushed by a legal review so that everyone can be caught.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u177	A respectable president. I agree with those who celebrate the release of this case and the prolongation of maternity. We make these adjustments to a class with those who give all we can to young families who can be very supportive in this regard in the future. I'd like to use this opportunity to express pleasure in the matter, but at the same time, I also want to point out what is too often overlooked in a discussion about these matters, that these rights are funded by a section of the insurance bill. At the end of this year, we changed the birth ordinary reserve because money from the stocks of stocks exceeded expectations in 2019. Because of this, we had to change the share of the insurance fees in order to support more fully the obstetrical part. With the extension of the birthmark and what lies ahead, we will need to go further in that direction. They will be much less left to the other aspects of the insurance policy to depend on the factors it is intended to face, given the overall share of the currency that is intended to be paid for the payment of pensioners and microenergy pensioners. [[The president calls.]] This must be kept in mind in the future, and we will take much deeper thought on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u178	Mr. President. The matter we vote for is improved, and we in the Central Party support the tour in order to unite these institutions, but we believe it would have been wise to take the step further and achieve the organizational issues under this hat immediately at the first hour. Since that step was not now taken, we must be absolutely careful that, regardless of how soon it will be, it will be soon or during the next election period, the steps will not now be taken together to press on to the possible unity of the organizational matters. We believe, as so far as we have learned, that the group of paintings as a whole would be more relevant to transport and rural administration than it is in later years. As I say, we support this matter even though one thing and another might have been better off, and I agree with the criticism that has often been presented tonight, that the matter might have been made earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u179	Mr. President. Here's another thing coming from the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, who is not prepared into the council at all too late and gives the best. Unfortunately, the welfare committee does not have the opportunity to work properly. We discussed this with 1st. how sad it is that the matter is so late, and it became evident in a review process that numerous comments were made, including of Iceland's Pentateuch, a majority of the Committee, did not want to consider. I don't think they're worthy of imitation when the General doesn't respect the reviews of such an important agency. There's a lot of good things about the idea, but I'm afraid it's not ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u180	President. I agree with what you're saying. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of welfare committee for the bill. We had too little time to discuss the matter on the committee. This could be a good change, but I don't feel that I can make enough informed decisions about it over the short period of time that we came up with, and because reviews were actually ignored. Besides, we didn't have enough guests, so I have to sit by. The Congress Group of Pirata is on the side of this case, but of course we'll vote for the change in the smaller section, because we're in the government stand together on that committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u181	Mr. President. We take to heart the agreement between the Subcommittee and the Cactivation Agency. This is a brilliant subject, and a part of it is the product of an effort group on the premises represented by the labour market, some recruitment, and others. It's important to finish this thing now, and thank you. The welfare committee and its chairman for the work being done on the subject. It's true that time was running out, but I believe we've reached an excellent landing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u182	Mr. President. I agree with what has been presented in the case of others in the memory of a health committee on this matter. The matter is good in many ways, the purpose is good, and therefore it is much worse for the case used in this case that not only the welfare committee did not have enough time to do it properly but it received a very clear message from many of those who sent in reviews and came to see the committees that it would have been wise to have more time to consider the matter. The aim of cohesion that I think many in this room want to see will not be realized next because the parties involved were simply not given enough time. In view of the overall situation, all we can say is that there was a handshake, so despite the support of the whole affair, we cannot support this kind of effort. We're sitting next to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u183	Mr. President. My whole mind is to simplify the system and the work around construction projects. That's important stuff. However, I am concerned that we are not sufficiently concerned with the professional aspects of the arts of litigation today, such as security factors, and direct them to the comments of the National Association of Fire and Drug Transporters. In addition, I'm putting up a question sign that the jury will be taken under the Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs. I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u184	A respectable president. I believed that there would be a special vote of 1 5. ... butit'snotit. I just wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to bring my concerns about the fact that Human Rights Agency has worked rather hard on software and software projects in connection with the anthropogenic puzzles that are now being taken into use. I think from the market there are some useful technical solutions that would have been more reasonable to use. Despite these defects in the job process, I think that the interests of achieving the objectives of this electronic portal, shared information, and any of the following, except for of course, a lot of savings in the paper terms of the workers' construction, I think the factors involved in the 15th parity. ... there'sa great deal of improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u185	Mr. President. Here's the third case from the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, who has not yet been assigned to the council, despite being part of a so-called biographer contract. This issue was discussed for one week during the last summer by the government, and it took six months for the matter to be delivered to the council. There were very serious comments from the Social Services Corporation, the welfare field of Reykjavík, the Environment Alliance, and the Emess of the UN as a majority of the Committee's houses that were not taken into account and have to say that it is very disappointing to hear so much of the important statements that were not heard by the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u186	President. We vote on a case where we are the members of the Central Party sitting by. As we have seen, the matter is maligned, and it is inexhaustible, hurrying in like other matters from the government that turn us into trouble. A welfare committee, especially from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children. It can be said that there are still poor people left behind as well as older citizens. There are no actual needs, and it seems that we are going to be made, and this makes us feel utterly unacceptable to members of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u187	President. Senator Pirata's party is behind us at this vote. Its reasons are well explained by the minority of welfare committees, but I am adding that there is another huge case going through the council and the committee in haste. There are many comments that we would have had to consider and see more guests, but we did not have time to do so. We have, for example. The concern that there are many of the changes in our time and that we are meeting a group that needs this help is an appearance like this on micromasks, students, and pensioners. I'm sorry that we haven't had time on the committee to take a good look at it and make sure it isn't before we make such an important decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u188	A respectable president. We're here for this matter. In many ways the matter is good, but what is bad about it is that a large group is forgotten, the desperate, the social workers. They don't make sure they get anything. We need to realize that over 600 people are on a waiting list at Brudda's house fund and that the wait list has been closed. There's an amazing number of people waiting for their farms. When you add up, there are another thousand waiting. It's not addressed in this bill that's unfortunate because it's the group that also really needs to get their way. That's why I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u189	Mr. President. We'll vote for a regular apartment bill. This case is part of the Life Treaty, and it is a great pleasure that we are now taking care of it. It is proved in this matter like many others that the current government is capable of meeting members in the community when important things have to be done and settled. Thank you. a well - being committee especially for the work and its chairman for bringing this matter to its conclusion. It was not easy for the crisis of the time appointed by the committee to do so, so it is important that the committee have been properly directed in that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u190	A respectable president. We're here to play a game called keep me up, let me go, and the smaller part represents. The matter may have been a little late for a welfare committee, in November, but it went on a three - week reporting process. The committee discussed this, called to many guests, took the hearsay received, and I'm sorry to witness that here the less part cannot support the changes the labor movement called on in its lifetime agreements, but we're just signing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u191	Mr. President. Yes, we're at the Allied Congress of Iceland just signing up for what's being done, aren't we? I completely deny that this is about some game here when each anti-continental senator comes up and expresses disappointments that the case has been handled in a political way that people feel that they cannot support it because there was not enough room to do it properly. That's what it's all about, and I'm really sorry. Group of Revolutions is sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u192	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote on a matter related to the biography agreement, a case of changes to the general housing system, an apartment system that we're going to secure next year, and that in the next few years, there will be 600 new apartments built inside this system. The matter has to do with the biographies that many in this hall felt would not be possible in a general labour market. But why was that possible? That was even. Slow down as a result of the government's affairs on housing. We knew that these actions would call for legal bills, and we knew that it would be challenging to get it all through the council in a short time, to form bills, to bring them into the council, and to complete them in the coming winter. This government is up to it, including for the benefit of cooperation with the labour market partners. But what is also revealed at the council is that the government's opposition shows that she had not been trusted to reach the living document contracts because she is not ready to do things with the quality and speed necessary. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] I'm incredibly proud to be part of the government that's finishing the biography deal with this bill and the other two primary projections that we voted for earlier. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u193	Mr. President. To make it clear what the government is doing, I'm pointing out that there are plenty of reviews in this case, from Reykjavík, from the Silicon Union, and other sources - that can be the highest level. Social Affairs Ordered? [[Flmrh.: The biographer contract.]] [[Flmrh.: I'm fine.]] What is clearly clear is the need for analysis in the social system of approximately Two thousand missing apartments. However, there is no need for analysis of the general apartments being requested for the labour market. It's not available, but the government is putting the social system in the backseat with this issue. [[Flmrh.: Wrong.]] It replaces the social system with the commitments the government has imposed in collective agreements. That would've been a slow game, top dog. Minister of Social Affairs, simply to contribute more money to ensure the interests of the most profitless people involved. It wasn't done. Because it's the highest. Minister of Social Affairs is snooping about doing so well, I'd point out that this matter came in an consultation course during the summer, but it took six months to make it undiscovered to the council. [[The president calls.]] That's how you clearly stack the sleeves at the Department of Social Affairs. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u194	Mr. President. It was kind of amazing to listen to the highest. Social Affairs acquiescing out of the bowls of his heart over the Senate, but it's only the matter that he trusted to keep the matter in his consultations for one week this summer. The guys who told them that one week was not enough time for such a big deal. Those who are not members of this lifetime contract fall off the board of the government, dropping off at the top of the horizon. Social Ministers who should also think of those who are desperate, those who do not have a knife and spoon each month, senior citizens, students, and those who are unemployed. These people are everything on the top of the subject. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. These people will be left out in this process of government that could not end this case properly, unfortunately, because there was only one group who got the attention. It seems that the government can't think of but one group at a time. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u195	Mr. President. I'm here because of this amazing speech from the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. She was amazing. Could it be, Mr. President --
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u196	Give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u197	Could it be that it was - perhaps it was agreed on? [[Take it up to ask the President to give peace to the speaker.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u198	The president begs to give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u199	It could be that it's right by the highest level. Minister to the biographies agreements, including Is there any way to negotiate to set aside microcreatures and delicate groups? That's what they call the highest. Ministers of great and good agreements that no one would have achieved except him and the government, now led by the left green. This is outrageous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u200	President. I'll be the first to say that when living agreements were made at the time, it was a cause for rejoicing, and I know no better than that we in the government stand have rejoiced. That's not what it's about. I'm afraid what's going on right now is that this case comes too late from the Ministry to us. It took too short in the consultation process, and there are reviews that make very serious comments. Those we are concerned about are those who did not participate in these contracts, disabilityrs, students and pensioners, those who are not at work. It seems that this change of law will take on them and their votes. These are the comments that have come, the reviews we have been reading, and that is why we make very serious comments about the matter. It's not part of any play, it's just the fact that the talk is the highest. A minister once thought that there was a lack of judgment, that he was ready to undergo such major legal adjustments, a fundamental change, without carefully considering whether this will really take the bite on those who are the most vulnerable in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u201	Mr. President. I'm not going to take to heart the tasteless comments of the highest. Minister. He's three times today probably set up Iceland record in bad practice. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's a miserable government that hits with the title Life Testimony Convention when it does not reach the weakest groups of society. [[Taken out on: right.]] That's fine, and I can be very well able to manage the German Union and the labor movement to accept this bill, but it's pathetic to know that people are going to take knights and talk about biographies when the weakest groups in the community probably have to wait two or three years. It's a disgrace, and most of it's a disgrace to the highest level. A minister who has shown that he is not a man of his work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u202	A respectable president. It's amazing that the situation is the way it is and to the highest. Hence, a minister should give in to the fact that the quality of life contracts are not for disability. This is exactly as if the heartlining is not for disability or for those who need it most, rather than for increasing according to the pay sheet. This statement clearly shows that there is going to be a waiting list for disability. It's to make sure that a waiting list of Empress's house funds cannot be registered. It's unlikely that they're always taken off the worst part, that they're put in the back. I'll bet you that it's not acceptable to the labor movement. I don't know why he thinks it's only for those who are working but he's supposed to respond and take everyone with, but don't take one group out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u203	Mr. President. The efficiency of the social and child - care minister is different. Thus, he often struggles with simple inquiries because he fears that the answers will not be tolerated by daylight. On the other hand, the bomb he threw in earlier would have had a set value of entertainment if it hadn't been so stupid and pathetic. The reason the Central Party sits by this vote is because the middle class does not want to be responsible for accepting a bill that is thrown into the council with no notice right at Christmas when men had all summer to work. As I'm saying, the efficiency of social and child-friendly ministers is different, as you can see from answers or non-warrants, we will naturally ask those who enter the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u204	Mr. President. The changes we're about to vote to turn to consumer loan law. They're going to reduce the activity of small loan companies and improve consumer protection, which is long gone. These changes have been called for for a long time. Neighbour, Neythal Society, agent of debt, and others have long called for these changes. The matter changed positively. A financial and business committee and it'd be even better if it did. Councilmen agreed to the change proposals of the memory that it needs permission so that the funds can be taken off when they repeatedly break and that the level of yokes goes down to 20%. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to support the changes made to the memory of the part and then to improve the development of more part in cases where the smaller part does not have a modification form. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u205	A respectable president. I agree with what. Harðardóttir In order to support the changes made in the smaller section that go even beyond the proposed changes made by most of the Committee. I'd also like to thank the Committee for a good job in this case, there was a positive change in the handling of the Commission, which was good because it was actually considered to be the opinion of a number of guests who came before the committee that the matter would have been of very little relevance to the small loans that are being tried to fight against. That is why it is very positive to see that the committee met for significant changes in the case that I think are all improving, but the suggestions of the smaller parts are, of course, even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u206	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a change in consumer loans. It is good to remember that in the law there is no definition of small loans in particular, so here it is making a change in the law of consumer loans. As noted earlier, all who made comments rejoiced because this bill had come along and would be accepted, but many wanted to go further. In this case the committee took into account the comments made, so here are some adjustments. It is most important that such loans are now registered in companies, and the consumer clinic continues to monitor them. At the same time, there is a protocol on money theft and then there is a reduced annual rate of cost to 50% to 20%*, as well as a requirement for authentication. I think we have here a very good bill, and we encourage the Senate to accept it as it is, with the changes in much of it. [* See correction in the senator's speech at the time. 20:19]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u207	Mr. President. I'm glad we're finishing this case, because here's another good thing to do. The reason why I make a sound about this is because there is good reason to express thanks for what has been presented here, especially to the councils of Oddný Harðardóttir G. The Hardyddóttir and the Berry of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for their work in this matter, as well as to the World Economic and Business Committees of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u208	A respectable president. I am deeply and sincerely celebrating this matter, and I support it with my whole mind. I hope once and for all, we're stopping this tiny loan company from getting our young people and the least of them involved. This is great, and I hope it's enough to stop once and for all time that this little loan company can behave as they've done here lately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u209	A respectable president. We here vote to reduce the annual rate of cost from 50% to 35%. I guess I misspoke earlier and I said 20%, but the suggestion is 35%. Then there is reason to note that in the bill, consumers are particularly not related to paying the total cost of loans when borrowers violate the law. The discussion on this law has considered how there are rules in other countries, with a minimum of 20%, in Finland, but there are also other laws on fixed expenses. I think that with this, we will achieve considerable success, although, of course, 35% is considerably high and we encourage continued monitoring of trends on this market in the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u210	Mr. President. This is a practical and progressive matter for Congress. It handles energy exchange in transport so that the lengthy attractions are caused by motor, electric cars, hydrogen cars, electric motors, electric motors, related equipment, rental cars, and car trucks, even loading equipment. This is all for real use in climate. Of course, emissions of greenhouse gas are being reduced, and another evidence is that there are repeated reports of government inactivity and the General on climate control being more than false. Surely we can do better than that, then, when we see to it parapolitic. I vote with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u211	Mr. President. We'll vote for a bill to correct the conversion of income-industry partners and rural law (presidents from an equation fund). Once again, I come up here and say I'm disappointed that I have to sit by because of the way we operate on this case. It came out of a confidential talk about my summer, and the results of that consultation were published then. Four months later, the matter came before a council. It was sent out for review, the deadline was two weeks, and the case was resolved three days later. Of the eight sources, two were called in as guests, the European Union and the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. For example, Reykjavíkurburg was not allowed to appear before the committee in this case despite a clear disagreement on calculating the distribution of certain contributions from an equation fund from a large country society. True, the city asked for a meeting after the case was taken out, but it may have been compassionate, three days after its release and had not received a memo that the Council was stamping himself into the treatment of major Parliaments here. [[The president calls.]] I reject these tactics, and the council is sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u212	Mr. President. Two committees were presented in this issue by the Environment and Transport Committee. I wrote my name on the committee's opinion of more part, but I think a little bit. I agree completely with what is stated in the opinion of the object and put a question mark to the system of payment, the great hurry, and that interest stakeholders have not been allowed to state their position by visiting the Committee and to explain their details, especially with regard to the largest country society, Reykjavíkurburg. This bill eliminates a legal term that cannot be resolved by any other than to refer to terms in the lyrics of the Law. I don't recommend the therapy, the work that we have here, and the great General for nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u213	Mr. President. Some votes are fun and make you happy, others less. I'll support this bill, but it's not a hot support, it's hardly any support I can give you. This is because the building of a rural branch and how it is assigned works against everything I stand for, where local communities are being punished for their moderateness and the rewards of those who are relatively poor in business. V.E.G. President. There must be a review of all the rules and guidelines that apply to rural society so that there is some equality here and it is not being punished by rural society for being moderate and doing well in business and in the service of citizens. I'll be supporting the bill, but I'm afraid there's some real support. [[The president calls.]] He's freezing. [[It's just off or off when it comes to the vote.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u214	A respectable president. I support the payment of this bill in the way that more parts of the environment and transport committee contribute to changing their proposals. The committee made significant changes in the bill, even killed it. published articles specifically considered by the committee to be in need of further discussion. Then there will be opportunities to discuss them when they return to the council in the form of a new assembly. Besides, I like to be happy. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason by saying that the Action Programme gives you an opportunity to discuss the events in the future. ... advising a policy plan on rural affairs right after the New Year's Eve is one of the complete reexamination of the County Fund. Granted, they need work, but this is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u215	A respectable president. In general, what was previously under the Regulation is being legalized and was judged illegal in terms of sharing from an equation fund, which is as if a good pay was to be paid on its own. However, we are inconceivable, so we are passed on to this case, except in the team of 10.b, where there is something being prepared by the Investment Fund and paid back over many years when the council is, in fact, responsible for the decision of the Supreme Court and the regulations in the minus. We vote against that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u216	A respectable president. I understand exactly how we're here to vote on a bill that goes on to erase the court's conviction following the court's court of law where we're enforcing the rules of work that have been taken in the equation. I'd like to say, though, that it's a joke at the local government level that in Iceland, sir, three people understand the Slurpee Fund of rural society. Don't understand him, and they can't reasonably figure out what they'll get from an equation next year's budget. I think it's normal to look at the full use of municipal income resources when you're looking at the income balance, but when you're looking at the cost balance, it's no good to cut down your donations to your rural society if they really do a good job and can allow themselves to have a lower yield than the maximum would say. There's something we need to deal with when we're going to an overall review of the equation, and I don't talk about making it a little clearer and simpler so people can understand what the equation is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u217	Mr. President. We're now voting on a matter that's peculiarly grown. This is, to the full, an additional Icelandic contract on the basis of the church agreement for the National Church. Despite financial commitments to 15 years of age, the General does not reach that agreement. It is said that there are no material changes in the bill. In view of the present situation, this is not correct, it consists of material changes that will likely lead to greater government spending. In view of the fact that the Council has no access to the case other than the completion of the contract in the House of Congress, we have no choice but not to support this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u218	A respectable president. The treatment of this matter is best described as a favour. The matter was put in the hands of the council, and much of it was done for the people to express themselves and take their democratic position. However, at the General Assembly, this was thrown all the way through the final meters, with no meaningful consideration for a committee, except for a presentation from those who represent the case. It didn't go through a review. But there was one review. It has a matter of opinion that the committee has not discussed, and now it is to accept the matter at high speed simply because the state will treat state and church financial relations as if it is the church's personal affairs and the taxpayers and citizens of the country have nothing to do with - or members of the United States if that is the case. All these contracts, both now and previously, show that the state is negotiating for the interests of the church and is not defending the interests of taxpayers. I think it's serious, and I think it's wrong. It also explains the work done at times, over and over again, about the church meeting and related agreements in this amateur party that we're doing here. [[The president calls.]] We vote against the whole bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u219	A respectable president. There are a number of serious problems with both the bill itself and its treatment. It is a law in the additional meeting that depends on this legal bill that violates public financial law. It should be taken seriously by the Parliament. Here are some things that are changing the arrangement between the opposite of the church meeting in this additional meeting. Suddenly, an exposé against the property that is supposed to lie underneath has actually been wiped out. We have not yet received answers to the extent to which possessions are being made up. How high are they from this additional meeting? The additional meeting and bill appear to be a pay contract for church employees, for priests, in which there is no regard for the decrease in the number of people who have been in the National Church in recent years or who will be predictable in the coming years. It's just a horrible, terrible deal, it violates existing laws, and it's just a horrible thing to do at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u220	A respectable president. When one of the most beloved psalmists in the country was trying to explain the sacred Trinity in a psalm and went on to the contrary, he finally sacrificed his hands and ended the song on these lines: This doesn't make any sense. But we'd better believe it. I feel that these lines may be somewhat relevant to the financial ties between the National Church and the State: this makes no sense, but it's best for us to believe. In view of this much uncertainty, but also the fact that this is a certain commitment to the Church's employees, whom I believe we must respect, I will be in charge of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u221	A respectable president. Here is yet another matter in a lengthy series of cases that the government does not provide, or at least, a possible advance for the Council. It is as if the greatest fear of this government is that the Council will have time to discuss its issues, and most of them seem to have been stored right up until the last minute. The situation here is very strange, and it would have been an advantage if the council had ever got to mountains, including the U.S.A. to see if making negotiations in this way would have been above the law. [[Up front.]] This is a contract made for 15 years, actually an untimely agreement, but at least to 15 years of age, according to the 40th paragraph. the law on government finances is the principle that contracts are not made for no longer than five years. It's the first thing. This is a burdensome change from a previous agreement for the State to the interests of taxpayers in this matter. There's nothing to see in this particular case, and that's why I vote against it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u222	Mr. President. What's wrong with you? paritaprevir In view of the fact that the god - practicing Þorsteinn of Pálsson, the former prime minister, was the one who made this agreement between the State and the church in his day, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, the son of David, was the one who made this agreement. [[Up front.]] However, there is another story. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] By agreement between Church and State since 1907, the State was given oversight of the land of the church, which then had about 25% of the country. In 1997, the state of the world took possession of the earth. The church handed over its land estates to pay in the form of a certain number of priests and employees. This agreement is unfashionable. The Convention on Churches is not revised in this new agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u223	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u224	The church is an important testimony to the fact that as a nation we stand on the historic and cultural foundation of Christian faith and values. I welcome this agreement. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u225	President. When this law was originally accepted, it came to the Generalis that the churches were not owned by the churches. Eritti was sent to the Council of Congress on April 2, 1997 by Jörmundur Ingi, then a global idol. I had this document found and put it on the web, so it goes with the original law. It says: It will be a little on the wrong foot. Do they represent each church for themselves or for the congregations or for the priestly call? (Subs. The Bishop's letter to Generals 15-1 1907). One thing will be pretty clear, it's not a church as an institution. The basis for these contracts in the beginning is possible in the sand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u226	A respectable president. You know, when you're down to a lot of bad work, you don't always get to finish everything you'd like to say you have. This vote here is the only opportunity for the Generals to review the agreement made here last fall. Surprisingly, the project can bind the state to 15 - year - olds in such a burdensome way to a quarter of a quarter of a billion dollars. each year on expenses without a confirmation of such agreement. I think it's pretty weird. I also intend to assert that the church meeting as it was done, and I am actually extending this vote here, it would not have passed a law on public finances at the time. Hence, it is even more surprising that since the fall of the year, the agreement was not submitted to the General Assembly. It was proposed to a Synod, not to the Council. I think it's totally shameful of my work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u227	A respectable president. We are holding our smallest brothers and sisters with this body of interpretation proposal placed in their arms at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. We're talking about 300,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy. We're talking about the bill being built by the Minister of Social Affairs and Child Services. He will likely be able to figure out how he will find money and prioritize money for those who do not have salt in their rocks. It's been going on for years. For many years this minimum move has been called. This is only one case of five matters in the Homlock's health package, so anything that connects to talking about some discrimination, a violation of equality, or I don't know what's out of the open air. We're only trying to build the eggs that Iceland's poorest people have had in the past ten years, less than 30% of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u228	Mr. President. When this case first came to pass, in March 2018, and was reassigned in September of that year, it was a problem of design and well prepared by the 1st transporter at that time. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. As we have seen, an article on the matter today is only a likeness to what was once seen, since it was inexplicable. The matter must be considered overall, including differences in the status of different groups and circumstances. Despite insufficient compromises this time, the Central Party will not tolerate the case but will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u229	Mr. President. It's annoying that there are people in this country who have to live under the minimum wage, under the poverty line. There is no need for us to share our burdens with us, and this is unwise because of the secondary costs of living in poverty and unable to seek medical help or to have normal social life. Tomorrow, we will speak inexorably, which was caused by severe winter depression and most members of the council who have expressed it understand the inequities. Whether the government understands the inequities involved in judging even a small child to poverty from birth, whether the biographer agreement is to reach us and some or all in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u230	Mr. President. We vote on a synonym which is proposed by the people's group of good minds, who have had much to do with keeping up the discussion of the terms of the worst in society. Sadly, however, the proposal, as it is proposed, contributes to the taxation of different types of incomes in the community. It won't work, so we'll vote against her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u231	A respectable president. This is where we're discussing the Gangs' case, which has always been the case with the Gangs, the careful and very simple language. We're simplifying our social security system completely, as you can, and we're building a tax and demeaning 300,000 dollars. as if it had been given correctly since 1988. I'd also like to point out what I forgot when I gave my committee opinion, that in this matter, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, president of the welfare committee, and Halldóra Mogensen and the people's Floking. They support the case, and I say for my part that I hope so deeply and sincerely that everyone else sees the light and accepts the motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u232	A respectable president. Of course, we in the Pirates support this good thing. On the other hand, I feel compelled to come up and criticize the petty defense that most of this council chooses to use to excuse myself for making this fine suggestion. To argue that the proposal violates the Constitution's 90th rule is not merely heartless law but an incredibly insignificant attack on a proposal, which, of course, is designed to right those groups in the community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's amazing that black people are white here and that as insignificant an attack as this is used to excuse this group's lack of minimum input and minimum yield.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u233	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that it is an ambitious goal that is shown by this case by wanting to secure this group of 300,000 dollars. Minimum improvement per month tax and inaccessible. It is, of course, impossible that we could take some intelligent discussion about such a suggestion without discussing expenses. Who's going to pay? How much is this? Well, I'd say that this could run at tens of billions of dollars. Don't deserve a case like this at least Any small talk about the part, or is the council getting down on the level that people just make decisions like that? There's the other one. Of course, there's no question that we're paying a vote on the Senate resolution proposals that'll assign counsellors to lay down bills. Senators have the right to take the initiative, and they can put in their bills. It is absurd that the council is handling matters so that a minister is assigned a bill. [[The president calls.]] I can't support such a thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u234	A respectable president. It is quite different to listen to those who come up here and criticize that we will step forward and try to bring up the poorest people to 300,000 k. V.E.G. Secretary of finance acts as if there are no council rules in this system. I ask you, when hasn't it been customary to make a synonym? On the one hand, I would say that this council resolution proposal has been discussed earlier in this hall, and there were not nearly 60 people here. I guess we were two here then, me and Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson. It is not as if people had not had the circumstances and the possibility of discussing the matter and coming to it in the early stages if they had been least interested in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u235	A respectable president. Costs? To raise disability to 300,000 dollars. The cost of tax and inadequacy is high. It is expensive to allow these people to have food for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u236	Microenergy burden.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u237	There's a cost --
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u238	Give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u239	This is the only group that's not corrected for failure. The cost that has increased is taxation to these people. There's been a large increase in taxes, and the process is that a personal discount has not been made in terms of price. [[Microenergy burden.]] It is hard to believe that year after year this group can be held down and that if a group is to have a home or a meal, that is an expense. I'm just saying, give it back so that people can live a decent life and not call it cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u240	Mr. President. We are alive anywhere and at any time we discuss how to reach the cost of the suggestions presented here. We've made many suggestions, but that's when we get to the top. Secretary of finance with the only product he knows by heart: these and these are just willing to raise taxes. [[How much for this one?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u241	What's the price?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u242	He forgets to mention, though, that we want to increase taxes on those born with a silver spoon in their mouths and that we never have to worry about money. [[The president calls.]] If there's ever been a time when princely talk without our counting beans, it's when we're talking about people who are doomed to poverty. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u243	A respectable president. I've heard from the City Hall of Congress from the 1st transporter of this case that the case is 36 billion. It is not much discussed in this council resolution, but 36 billion are quite a sum of money. I hear a number of senators who have expressed concern about spending over the past few years support the matter or sit by. I then hear other senators, who often are here quickly talking about tax increases, say that their support will not be to raise taxes to under 36 billion expenses. This is hardly twice as much money as the tax losses that guaranteed biographies. It's not just some people who get a tax cut, it's about that. 98% taxpayer. This case is thoroughly neglected, unconcerned, and it is unwise to support such a matter. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u244	A respectable president. People come up here and say 36 billion are huge costs. This isn't cost. [[The point is, it's...]] It's for the advancement of people. [[Up front.]] What, then, do they call a mistake at a hundred thousand and fifty thousand thousand and twenty thousand thousand dollars at an apartment loan fund, a mistake that would pay this amount for six years? What? It's okay. What is it? Someone just made a mistake? [[Up front.]] 140, 200 billion, nobody knows what the amount will be. [[The president calls.]] This would last for six years for these individuals. Why not stop making these mistakes and leave it to those individuals? The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u245	A respectable president. The case is unconvinced. The case is neglected. This is the third legislature in which we call $300,000. The minimum tax and decomposition. There are various data and calculations, but in this case, the case is presented in the form of a synonym because somehow you may think that perhaps the government could consider taking care of the matter and passing it through. But when we're reducing fishing costs, bank taxes, and selling tens of billions of dollars of property under real value, nothing is said. What is said when it comes to making a national fund for 110 billion and then saving it somewhere? Where are the people first? Who is wondering here what kind of families are feeling at Christmastime with their little children? You want me to tell you? Unfortunately, all too few people are thinking about it. Instead, they think about money and priorities in order to make it look good on an excel document while there's a total of 129,15% of Icelandic children in this country. I'm embarrassed. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u246	Mr. President. We vote on the motion to direct the bill to the government. It's a very good thing to do here, and that's a reason to thank a traveler for his transfer. However, a discussion with the committee raised questions as to whether this was a long way or not would be a reason to take the matter even further. So it comes to the government, but with a clear understanding that the Ministry is moving next year's bill on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u247	Mr. President. I appreciate the fact that this case is now being treated in the third wave. Of course, you are impatient that this case has a quick payment, but because we middle-class people like to be careful with the natural process of agreeing that the case will be referred to the government, there is a clear understanding of the Supreme Court. Economic and financial ministers are moving bill based on this bill next fall. I believe it. I trust to the highest. A minister will use the time he and his Ministry are now allowing, first of all, to consult in the spring months, then to use the summer for a bill and to bring a bill here at the beginning of the next fall meeting so that we can accept this case for the elderly before 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u248	Mr. President. I think it's important to give those both able and to want a chance of working beyond the age of 70 to end the age limit not necessarily the best criteria for when to stop working, i.e. retirement. I would like to suggest that the ideas of either increasing the age limit for the workers of the state, or even of the age limitation of my interpretation and eight other members of Congress will not be on guard to perpetuate the rights of the employees who want or even have to retire earlier. I think the key to such suggestions is to agree with government employees, and beyond that, I believe the project will have to be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u249	A respectable president. The bill we agreed to this spring was a great act of justice for queer people, but as soon as the law developed busy targets that made it possible for Icelanders to live abroad, there was a problem within the system in changing name registration. This is immediate action. The equality plan takes into account people of all genders, and so does the work started at a total review of the law on the equal rights of women and men, which includes sexual variability and sexual awareness. It shows black and white that this group of lawsuits will be convened by this government, and therefore I rejoice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u250	A respectable president. I'm gonna support this bill, and I'm just gonna be quick to explain what it's all about. It's about a so-called return road of 70 miles [70 km] of roads that have long stood in order for rural society to take the road from Vega. However, it has not worked, and this bill allows the road to take care of the road for the next year, ensures that the situation of the roads will be adequately adjusted, and then the treaties will be concluded to take care of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u251	A respectable president. It's very fine, because Piratar and I had done the exact same thing. It was still in progress in the Department of Documents in the Committee of the Environment and Transport Committee when it was proposed to be completed by the end of the New Year's Eve. It's just great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u252	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 16, 2019, or later, if necessary, to January 20, 2020. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u253	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the civil rights of public and educational committees. This time, the committee received 118 citizenship applications in the autumn Council of 150 C.E. but under 1st. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. The committee suggests that the candidates for 24 applications will be granted citizenship this time. In 1st. The bill itself includes the names of these 24 individuals, and I see no reason to trace them here but to refer to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u254	A respectable president. This is where we'll recommend a bill to legalize the change in media law, No. 38/2011, with subsequent changes (a support for building and sharing news, news sharing, etc.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s Government contracts require support for the environment of the environment of the individual media, and the bill is involved. A major change in the media environment has been made through the development of social media and new means of communication. The media are mainly based on advertisements and subscriptions, and when both revenues decline considerably, it is clear that there is trouble. The pullback is driven by a growing proportion of advertising on the tissues of foreign corporations and on the other hand, the availability of much free media. Governments around the world have responded to this trend by providing the media with strength or other improvements in their environment. Northern nations have been on the lead in supporting the private media for decades. In the beginning it was mainly about newspapers, but in recent years it has also included other types of media such as Internet media and audio and video media. A recent report by the British Parliament on the status of the media in that country highlights the role of the former democracies but also the role of promoting development and innovation. A respectable president. On this basis and on the basis of the circumstances described here, it is a bill for supporting private media efforts. The government radio plays an important role in our community, as is shown in the law on its activities, but it is essential that more media are employed, are guided by diverse viewpoints, and thus play their role in our society. The objective of the bill is to promote the media by supporting and strengthening production in the news, news sharing, and coverage of social issues. To achieve that goal, it is expected that private media teams will be allowed to provide financial support to the part of the cost of reimburseing and providing such material. As previously traced, the media play a vital role in a democracies community. Support is expected to improve the reporting process, the careful reporting and informed discussion. The bill makes it clear that the goal is also to support the government's language policy and thus contributes to the media. The importance of this is not necessary. The media are to be part of the country's common interest, to promote and maintain Icelandic language, and to make conditions so that young people can have the opportunity to observe the community talk in their own language. A respectable president. I will now explain the main subject of the bill. As we have seen, the goal of promoting private media is to promote the media. Thus, the main subject of the bill is how governments intend to do so. It is expected that support will also be in the form of reimbursement up to 18% of the pay paid by the dierent medium due to editorial work and in the form of 4% of specific support, which is also based on the specific percentage of pay paid. Remuneration to the media is expected to not exceed 50 billion. K. but is not covered with a special support based on 4% of the above pay costs. In this context, the bill defines jobs as editors and is a fairly narrow definition for being common to all media, i.e. Print, network, audio and images. A respectable president. It is important to note that the bill reimburse the bill's collection is in the spirit of other systems established by the government in recent years to support culture in Iceland, and that it contains remunerations for movies, recordings, and publication. There is also a scholarship to innovation and a new fund of support, Kría. This is a reimbursement of the government funds to the private person, whether in culture or in innovation. This is why Iceland's state funds are making money, except for billions of dollars. In the bill, the Minister of Education and Culture is expected to appoint three members of the distribution committee under the appointing of a government accountant and to meet the requirements for the local Court's office and one to be a legal accountant. Guards shall be appointed in the same manner. It is then stated that the decision of the Reimbursement Committee on Reimbursement and Strength is complete administrative solutions and is not subject to administrative matters. In this regard it is best to make the decision that candidates have the right to make the decision of a judicial committee, and it is therefore strictly secure, although the decision of the Committee is not to be made to a higher level of government. Details are required by the media applying for reimbursement that their applications follow all the necessary data in order to make a financial decision. In this regard it is, for example, The requirement for a full transparency state regarding the possession of the media. In order to be reimbursed, the applicant needs to meet certain conditions. The requirements apply to their role model in national legislation for public support and appeals to the media in other countries. Special attention has been made to Norwegian and Danish legislatators in this area. However, it has been inevitable to adapt to the rules of the Icelandic media market. The main conditions for which the media must meet for support are that the media should be registered or authorised for audio or image media and have worked continuously for 12 months or more before the use of an application to the media committee. The main objective of the media shall be the communication of news, news-based content, and community coverage. Its materials shall be varied and for all the public in Iceland. The printing mediums are expected to publish at least 48 times a year, while network, sound, and image servers and other comparable media transmits new substances every day. The literature should contain a minimum of 40% of the materials published in the printing media and in the network media and one sixth of the material should be based on independent news and documenting. A respectable president. The bill expects the law to go into effect on January 1 and on the present year's first reimbursement and support. It is then suggested that the law be reviewed on December 31, 2024, as it is a government service that needs regular evaluations. It is also important to determine whether the law's aims have been met and therefore the evaluation of the impact and effectiveness of the public media through the bill is expected to be performed by the end of 2023. A respectable president. By bill this, Iceland is looking for a group of other northern countries and European countries to support private media efforts and thus contribute to media diversity. Support made by the bill is expected to enable the media to promote their editors, to be the domain of communication and freedom of expression, and thus fulfill their role as one of the cornerstones of democracy. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. O.R., a respectable president, referred to what. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u255	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill here to legalize the press. I think the little media in the country that's trying to keep up a little bit of information on rural society and neighboring units, and I'd like to ask about the law for 48 weeks. It's only four weeks of vacation for the person. It's usually one, at most two, in this media, and I think it's a real nudge because a lot of editions come out during Christmas. I'm just wondering if 45 to 46 weeks had not been enough. The second thing I'm wondering is, is it not time to start with them? What it has to do with the large cover, e.g. many TVs and radio circuits? There's always talk about the security factor, but we've seen that's not true. I think it'd be easier to have one TV and one radio station at VOLV, take it off a commercial market, start with that instead of pumping money into it. Those who have the media now, as far as I can see, are very successful men, and they seem to be able to run them year after year with bullshit losses. I don't see why we should be supporting the big media with public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u256	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. It is clear in this bill that local media are especially taken into account and they are reaching out. They agree with these conditions because there is a great need for information services to be done throughout the country. We take these media into consideration, and they fall under the bill. I also think it is very important that we understand the situation in the Icelandic media market. She's not new. A lot of people have come to work on this bill. In 2016 a committee was appointed under the highest leadership. The intellectual and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson and quite some time have been started on this bill's work in which we try to take a great deal of consideration for the circumstances that exist in Iceland to support the Icelandic media market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u257	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. If I set this up as a support to disability, older citizens, and those who are ill, I would think, " Why are people who are rich and who have everything to say? ' I can't get it. Then I started to think, " Of course, they're sick. ' It could be because they're crazy. It could be disability, and then I understand, of course. Yes, let us strengthen them because they always seem to need more and more money, even though the media is fired with a nonsense loss. Where should we stop? What employers are not to be strengthened? The little camp that fights on the banks of the country or somewhere? Where should we stop and start? I don't see that we should be supporting these media. We're supposed to make sure that RUS is not at a commercial market, starting with a whole different place than this one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u258	A respectable president. I think it's urgent to review why we're going into this adjustment. First of all, democracy is the role of the media. The media is an important site of social exchange. Changes in the environment can have a direct bearing on how to maintain a democratic system. Second, cultural importance. The media are part of our common interests in promoting Icelandic and promoting community talk. Third, as I entered my opening speech, the media, not only in Iceland, are very difficult for the technical and communication revolution that has taken place in the last phase. As a result, the situation has changed in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u259	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her word. Actually, I don't understand the truth about this case, but it's different. I feel that what I've read in this bill is not likely to happen to the large pink elephant in the Top Search. He may contribute to this trend. I have a few questions. On page 18. 6 says, for example, by permission of the President: ▪ The Association of Education and Culture with the State Radio on Public Public Service was signed in 2015 and expires at the end of 2019.◯ Today, there are few days left in 2019 C.E. Is work on continued agreements finished, or will it be completed in the few days that remain? Is there anything to say? Second, what will happen to the so - called free media, their independence, and their freedoms, which are strengthened by government funds once they have become dependent on the state for income? Doesn't a Minister worry about that? I heard it before I heard it. Ministers say the press has cultural roles. That's exactly right, and that's why I must ask: " Become the media to those who are strengthened by some condition, e.g. to share information and news in English, which most of them lack? Will it be a walking device that will fix it up? True, 400 million minus one value and the cost of a committee of expensive metals will be replaced by what? The question is, What will the state's demands be for the media that will be strengthened, e.g. that they care about what they haven't done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u260	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. First of all, I want to mention working on a service contract. First of all, we stress the language, that we are in attendance for it, both in offense and in defense, to ensure the future of the language. Second, the importance of education is to increase everything that is related to education and, in particular, the education of children and young people. Hv. A senator asked about independence and wondered if this would make the media too dependent on the government. I consider this a useful question and would like to answer it, so in other parts of the North countries, there is a similar arrangement, and I have not heard of the criticism that it is thus a government support that it affects the rightness of editors. I simply have confidence in the media that I am not concerned that their independence is influenced by the state's strength in this form. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A member of the body is concerned with Icelandic and what requirements we are going to set. We demand to follow an Icelandic seminar, and we are now working for a hearing adopted at a council by all members of the council who aim to strengthen everything related to our language in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u261	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I must also ask about the amount, 400 million. Not long ago, a greater part of our district council suggested that there be 270 million to shorten a waiting list for a replacement operation. Here's 400 million people pulling out of their pocket. When we consider each dollar, is it correct to strengthen the private media at 400 million a year on the more than 4 billion that we pay for a so - called national radio? The question is, how does it look? A minister of our Middle Class proposal that the public will be enabled to select the media to which he wants the radio charge to go, that they get to pick with their feet?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u262	A respectable president. I note that the media environment in this country has been quite different from what happens in the North countries. First, the state media is not in advertising, and second, they are supported by the government, including the public. Because of the cultural importance of the media in democratic communities. The current conditions are very different. The government's plan has long been to support this environment better, and now it is a bill that aims to strengthen this market in the spirit of what happens in other parts of the North. I believe that the matter is now being addressed and that the comments made by committees and the changes they want to make are made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u263	A respectable president. It is often that when the Piratars come up and plan to talk about some problems that are relatively new because of the technological revolution, they are more likely to discuss problems and explanations why one cannot do one thing or another than bring a solution to the situation. In this context, I say that the goal of this bill is that I think it's very good and positive, i.e. To promote the independent media. On the other hand, I have some doubts about this approach but do not offer any special solutions. There are two things I'm concerned about what I've mentioned before, the independence of the media. I heard some answers at the top. Minister, but with all due respect, I don't think they're enough. When the government decides to set a requirement for a person to get money, the legal entity will be subject to fulfilling those conditions, and it would be unfortunate for me when it comes to this particular fragrance of the community, which is sometimes called the fourth power, the media. The other is a closely related relative, and I'm just as worried about it, that I feel by this bill that you provide conditions, so they set the servers in a specific assembly. I think old media get ahead of new ones. That is a requirement for daily news development. It is easy to present an example that breaks up this pattern. One is that a certain number of employees, three or one depending on the events, and a requirement for a broad range of materials and individual reporting and accessories is expected. Besides, I don't know what those words mean exactly, it's pretty easy to think of some business model that would not match this model but would be worth testing. These are the ones I would like to see support, not from the state, but that they would somehow become reality. It's what I'm worried about here, that if it's cut into some predetermined tournament, I'm afraid that it's just some old business model that's being held in a respirator when evolution involves that one crazy thing and another is replaced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u264	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the comments made, first of all, that this will affect the independence of the fourth power, that the media will not become independent because of government support, and he asks whether we are offering a solution to yesterday's media, as I understand it. First, it is about independence that, as mentioned earlier, we look to other countries and see the ways they have gone. This route has turned out to be pretty good in other parts of the North, so we'll take it. Significant work has taken place, both with the highest - ranking committee. the then educational and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson's son, where this way was, in fact, A committee, as well as a media board, has worked a lot on this bill. If this can work in other parts of the North, I believe all of this can work here. Regarding the fact that we are putting all the media into a particular format with the conditions we have set up, time must be revealed, but this is the solution and the opportunity we most see to support the Icelandic media market. We have watched what has been happening elsewhere, such as to produce in France and Spain, where the media's commercial revenues were so tight. It revealed that income did not go directly to the private media available, but it was designed to strengthen them. The advertising revenues went to the major sectors because most of them are in these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u265	A respectable president. I don't know what's meant by the fact that this has brought good results in the North countries, but this case will probably enter my committee, so I'll take a closer look at it there and I'll do it with an open mind. The big problem that I see it regarding the democratic role of the media today is not that traditional media have a problem with business, although it is part of the problem. The problem in my eyes is how the information distribution is totally controlled by what serves democratic discussions, e.g. To what? 5th a.m. Smoke. As a result, doctors and drags on different parts of the Internet, I expect, and therefore get different information. The discussion we should normally take will never be there. Even though I'm a socialist, I can still buy the morning paper and read it and find out what right men think. Not necessarily online today, which is a big part of the problem and actually goes far beyond what we can do here to fix. I can also easily imagine ideas about a news medium that is all about the Council. I think it might be a more democratic conversation, but I don't think it fits into the model. [[The president calls.]] Another is correction news, news that is only about correcting news, perhaps being published on the Internet once a week. It wouldn't fit either. There are these ideas that I think we need to support rather than the traditional media. I just reiterate that I will take a closer look at a committee as the highest. The minister went over in a previous answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u266	A respectable president. Until now, there has been no private media media support in Iceland, but it has been significant elsewhere in the North countries. We've been in quite a different position, just so I repeat it. Regarding what is said in the matter of the day. A senator on how we share material in these days, I dare say that never in human history has there been as much material available in all parts of the world, and access to education as much. What we look at is also of concern to our important language. One thing we can see is that in the past ten years, the magazine talk of young people has dropped dramatically. Of course, our young people also read the Internet, but the offer is not as much in Icelandic as it used to be because our young people, who are also quite amazing, have access to all the other material through a large body.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u267	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the media law. As it is clear to all of us here, we are in the final records of this autumn Summit, and it is, as it were, a decision to make a recommendation for this matter now with the intention of bringing the case to a committee. There has been a lot of trouble going on all the time that this has been being done. A man saw in the 27 comments received by the government in which the matter was stated at an earlier stage that there seems to be serious doubts about the fact that here is a reasonable tone of voice in supporting domestic media services, especially the private media. I think it would be better at home than then now, and people try to work better, and they may come up with more satisfying applications, especially with those to whom the solution is directed, since doubts about the matter are not covered by any who looked at the reviews that were made in their consultations. The doubts appear to be there, but we will see how the matter will be handled now on a committee. What many have called the elephant in the living room has been called the pink elephant, but I'm just going to call it The Kingdom Radio. The biggest surprise is how little is really going on with the State Radio, its situation, and its superior position in the media market in the bill. If the government radio continues to enjoy the position and freedom it has had in a commercial market, it is likely to continue a big challenge for the private media. I don't think it's necessary to go through the reviews of the servers that have the largest international news agencies in order to get the right tone out of the bill. There are other ways I'm going to allow myself to go on a little bit. First, I'm going to review what we in the Central Party have proposed to solve this matter in terms of the State Radio's supreme position in the media market at the same time as we support domestic free media and domestic programs. Since then, certain members of the Independence Party have come up with excellent ideas. I think that some combination of these two factors from the group of ideas that have come from these two directions would result in a much better approach that would support a more powerful approach to domestic private media at the same time that the elephant in the living room would be put on a thorough diet. The amount of money, probably on the seventh billion people now that the Kingdom Radio is playing, on the other hand, by government contributions and by advertising revenues, makes this fight so inconsistent that the exclusive servers have no chance at all. If I address only the viewpoints recently proposed by the Central Party to suggest that the solution of these cases is twofold. On the one hand, it insists that taxpayers, the public, be allowed to select an annual tax rate for which media they direct their radio fees. The audience knows what I mean by that reference. Our proposal suggests how this would get up to a specific roof, but it gave the public first chance to direct their support to the servers they want -- they don't have to be alone, there could be more media. Men might check e.g. two, three share on a tax report and the servers would enjoy it in the coming year. This allowed for the control of support in the direction that the general public values most at the same time as the state radio supreme position was slowly stepped down. Don't panic. The other thing that we in the Central Party suggested is about the state radio advertising position. There have been opinions that lead to the development of the Kingdom News of a commercial market that will be difficult to reach in certain groups, certain groups of people; however, there have been concerns that the advertising revenues that do not go to the State TV would not necessarily go to other national media. Our proposal in the Middle East is that the State Radio will remain in a commercial market but that half of the government's revenues of advertisements and benefits will be taken into the fund to support a national program that would be a competitive fund that would support a good-looking national program that could be continued in accordance with the rules of state, both on national television markets and abroad, depending on the events. I think we've already come up with a solution, a approach because we're avoiding the state coverage of the media now being suggested, but we've reached the same time to support a good-looking national program, support the national private media, and reduce the attitude of the VR, all in moderation, and so all the places in the media market would be two or three years from today. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Since Páll Magnússon is next in a pit, I'm going to let him review the excellent ideas I seemed to have. I don't remember what happened. A senator spoke to the ideas I saw news on which the tax system was being used in a way that developed in certain comments and has been done elsewhere. I think it would take again to create a simpler system than what's being created right now, a system of a state area where everything calls for a special check and adds to the breakdown level I'm convinced that the little media especially will be able to do without. This is somehow the way it is known to all of us that this is the burden of rule, control, and the need to put on a jacket that the state will hand to its operators will never benefit. This is what I would like to say about these two approaches, of course, with emphasis on the approach of our middle class members, and I hope that the members of the Independence Party will consider themselves in more detail afterwards. Of course, there are some suggestions that immediately raise serious doubts, and I just want to mention one thing. In order to be reasonable, there are only three large editors working in a private market today. That's the Morning Press, News News, and News Office for Stops 2. Fleas are not for suspension. If this roof is covered in the bill, which, in fact, I hope to be so hundered by the Committee that the case will be changed very significantly, then I think the cards are quite uninterrupted, i.e. If these three major editors have to some extent squeeze into the same jacket that smaller media have to do, the money they are playing. I would like to refer to the Committee that this point should be specifically reviewed in view of the fact that the committee is evaporating, not becoming further developed, to make the case even more dramatic. Finally, I'd like to say that as our proposal in the Central Party suggests, this is a necessary procedure, i.e. to help with the private skills, the national media. We believe that it is necessary to reduce the position of government radio administration, and we consider it wise for many of us to support national programs. We've already made a suggestion to make all these boxes, a suggestion that I think any party in the market should be able to enjoy quite well. No doubt the most doubts come from the direction where the Kingdom Radio loses its span from its ash, but it's stated so moderate that I don't believe that the State Radio can adapt to the reality of not having a seventh billion from playing but a slightly lower number, even though it's not all over it. This is what I wanted to say at this point before the case is referred to a committee and we here on Christmas leave, after tomorrow. But I just want to sharpen the committee to approach the matter with an open mind for all the changes, the transformation of the case if it makes it any better, and in particular I want us to avoid the state of the national, private media system as set out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u268	President. I spent a long time in the media, and there were certainly times when you had to quote the other media and the fine work of other reporters who had given up their work. Then a man had the Golden Rule to refer to the fine work, the originals that had been performed there. Now I've listened to two of them. The members of the Central Party discuss this idea that one of them called here earlier this evening to allow taxpayers to vote with their feet, i.e. check the tax report. At one point, I felt as if I were listening to Davíð, the son of Oddsson, former boy. Senator, because he spoke very highly of this proposal. But neither of them heard the source of the proposal. I got it. I got it. To determine the origin of his sources, as we did in the editor, a senator felt that he was polite. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of this proposal only. I can't understand why. A senator who differs from that of me and him does not have a completely different idea about what the Federal Radio is. My ideas are based on state radio law, but what? A senator seems to talk only about the news section of this institution. I'd like to ask you what. A senator proposes that a tax report on the support of a cultural institution of RUS is available, whether the Central Party believes that this will apply to other cultural institutions. Should the number of theaters be selected by taxpayers? Should taxpayers choose which company gets the scholarship, etc.? Or thinks so. A senator, as I have read the Central Party, wants him to promote Icelandic culture, that some cultural institutions should be cultural institutions, e.g. The National Theater or the Balls and State Radio?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u269	Madam President. If I ever suggest that the taxpayers get to choose which cultural institution, theater, or company they want to defend their tax dollars, I will be careful to take it from them. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttarson Proppér, with the indicators for source sources as well as foremanage. A senator came in. But I'd like to say right away: I don't think I've mentioned the U.S. TV alone in my speech. I'm just pretty sure it's not. But if you do. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé doesn't feel or experience the highest position the Kingdom Radio is in, and hence, the News Office of the Kingdom Radio, we and the Buddies will probably just have to live by identifying the state radio in their own way. I think that everyone at this market who doesn't work in the Top Search will experience that the highest position of the institution has its own to say. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé pointed out that the idea that taxpayers could choose which way to radio was originally introduced by former prime minister and current editors of the Morning newspaper, Davíð son of Oddsson. It's not to make her worse, it's clear. I'll keep it up, and I just hadn't figured it out. Of course there are ideas, and one remembers them from the kisso, so to speak, but I didn't have an earmark especially to our former prime minister, the good man Davíð the son of Oddsson, but I may have done so from now on. Of course, in the Middle Order's proposals, there are additional transfers to the Prince's decision to allow the taxpayers to control their own support because such ideas have to be implemented, and they are in our suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u270	President. I'm surprised I'm telling you why. A senator with his fine history in the Independence Party from as some time ago said that this idea comes from Davíð, son of Oddsson. It's fine that he and the Central Party will claim this idea to the editors of the Morning Journal from now on. He can be proud of it or not. I don't think so. I was just reviewing where this idea comes from and reviews the Golden Rule of our current and former journalists to be able to source sources. Another Golden Rule is to tell the truth and honestly what others say, e.g. Senators. I wouldn't have been doing my job as the news editor would've let you say it again. A senator of what I said in the paper when I worked there, for that was the result of my words here. My idea of VOLV was a simple question to ask. A senator's decision on whether taxpayers could choose other cultural institutions, since that must be a natural question. If that is true of one culture, why does that not apply to others? You're right next door. A senator, I think, I confess that I do not remember every word in his speech, that he did not mention RUV a single word. That's exactly what it is. 'Cause how's it going? A senator speaks of VOLV is merely a competition with the media, which carry out news and media. I'd like to ask you what. The senator, however much of his business, goes to the newsroom, which is most competitive. And I'd like to continue to ask questions about the subject. A senator who speaks of the private media domains that this strength will become reality, this great idea. Secretary of education: thinks so. Senator for other media, e.g. in the North countries, who have such support?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u271	Madam President. To answer that question. Proppé Kolbeinn'd like to say first, since the senator chooses a way for us legislators in the legislature, it would be better to conduct our case in a manner that conforms to the regulations of journalists, that when the left green senators think of raising taxes, it's just the left green senator's idea of each time. There's nothing to refer to some old left-eared economists. It's gonna be a bit difficult to hold on if you have to go that way. [[Up front.]] Then set a reason for it. A senator asks me if I would imagine that the same would apply to other cultural institutions. I thought I answered that in my previous answer. I haven't come to that place yet, but it might be reasonable at some point. These ideas have not been implemented and are not part of the suggestions we have made in the Central Party. Wait a minute. That was the third question. In case of a moment. A senator will help me with it, if he remembers who she was.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u272	About the state media coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u273	Yeah, about the state of the media. I don't have the basis for evaluating these Norwegian media that I heard the senator refer to, whether I attend them as such, based on the fact that these rules cover the media market there. It is work that will probably take place on the committee now, but at this point, I do not know it, and I appreciate what matters to me. We must focus primarily on what is happening to national markets. There, of course, no one has to question the fact that the public media, for example, is a source of doubt. in the advertising market to compete with the State Radio. Not just the newsroom. It was just a discussion about it last summer, when the U.S. TV Advertising Department was said to have vacuumed up the advertising market around the World Cup soccer tournament. [[The president calls.]] So it's not just advertisements ahead of classed Channel 2 newscasts and Channel 1. This applies to the entire program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u274	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u275	A respectable president. It is likely best to begin with the claim that the operating position of Iceland's special media has not been as bad as it has been for nearly 40 years since the removal of the State monopolitan monopoly on the optics. The situation has deteriorated rapidly in the last few years and even in the years. This bill that's here for the 1st. This fact involves recognition and is an effort to cope with the situation - even if in a small way, many may say. But you can commend the highest. Education and cultural minister for efforts and the willingness to respond in any way to this unpleasant situation. Materially, this bill is that in many respects I know well. However, there are some things that need further attention and will be discussed in the following article. A top-of-the-art Board of Education in due course. This may apply especially to the distinction between public news media and virtually a blog site, i.e. mainly a platform for the opinions of those they have and run, and they do not have much to do with public news services as outlined in the bill. It may be difficult to draw such a line, but it must somehow draw and establish some standards and guidelines that are reasonable and reasonable. However, the key problem, or problem, with the whole issue is what is not found in the bill, and it is not presented concomitantly. After all, it is illogical, even futile, to discuss the situation of the individual media in this context without simultaneously discussing the state of the Kingdom radio. The reason is even Because the number of people who are willing to make a subscription for the media is constantly getting smaller. It's not Icelandic, it's global - except for the media that is so equipped, such as state-of-the-art media in the North countries and beyond, Britain and Western countries, here in Western Europe and like the Federal Radio, where people are forced to pay for it. Thus subscribers, such as Station 2 and the Morning newspaper, who used to make most of their previous free subscriptions, have quickly grown from the top. I am, for example. If subscribers now make more than half of what they were when they were most. Now I don't know the numbers from the Morning Press, but I could best believe that they were nothing like them, subscribers being less than half of what happened best. Of course, this means that the advertising revenues have become much more of the total income of this media than ever did. This is where the knife is in the cow, basically in the literal sense. Over the years, the government's progress in this market will be increasingly abnormal, and the changes that are taking place in the media are becoming during these years. If we take the entire commercial market in Iceland as a whole, we can roughly say it is somewhere close to 10 billion dollars, i.e. The amount of money available to the Icelandic media from advertising in Iceland. Of this amount, 10 billion, the Kingdom News has about 10 billion dollars. 20% of the total, between 40 and 50% of the total photon mediums. Almost half of the advertising on the radio and television in Iceland, of the money spent on advertising, is involved in the state radio. When we see the share of VOLV, that the entire income of advertising releases 2 billion, we compare the 400 million that the bill says is to be used to support the private media. Then I've reached the bottom line. It is very difficult, not to speak more strongly, to agree to direct public assistance to the private media without the State departing first or at least as part of the market, which is the main source of revenue for the same private media. Of course, this can be done in various ways, in stages if necessary. You could, too, at least In theory, in such a way that the State Radio would lose in nothing of that change, if it was political to do so. The first stage could, for example. which was best equivalent to the amount of money planned for direct government support under the bill, i.e. 400 million, which in the first round meant that the roof of the U.S. Radio program was placed in 1,600 million. K. This year, but 2 billion did not come off as it does today. I want it to be held at the end of my speech to the highest degree. The Minister of Education and Culture is already preparing a step in this direction, either or both, with the current service contract. If this does not work without law, it may also come about, for then very public media problems can be handled in a uniform and collective way, but also rational and cognitive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u276	Madam President. I am one of the senators who are not convinced that this is the right solution to the problems of a particular media, although the problem is indeed there. I can totally agree on concerns that have been wooded here at the discussion tonight, including by how free and independent the media are if they all come to the government's contributions, I don't talk about a contribution that really depends on even the Minister's decisions at any time, which amount is involved. Of course, it is the nature of this kind of funding that it can also be hampered. You might wonder, " Is there some sort of emotional decision that it doesn't have to be? ' But I was actually more concerned about words. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, when he began to wonder about the question of a media medium and what would be a real newsroom, compared with, like a boy. A senator put it, some kind of blog. I think we'll be on high ground first if we're going to go into a significant assessment of the potential sponsors and what media are not. I must admit that I fear very much in this discussion, because it has often marked certain panels to criticize the power of the media because they don't like the press, that they can then choose the media as practical. TRUST has certainly been the target of such criticism over the years, and many other media too. That's what I'm talking about. A senator really means that the State should begin to state what is considered by the media and what is not in this comparison?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u277	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah. paritaprevir You see, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, I'm really serious about it, and I don't see how we should find out how we should find out what it is and whether we should strengthen our own media without specifying what the media is. That's exactly what they do on the bill. The approach is a newsworthy subject, editor of the news - bound material and editor's work. I think it may be clear to everyone what's the difference between e.g. A blog that is just the location of the owner and that runs to express his opinion. Blogg.is is e.g. Part of The Morning Journal. Would we view the blog.is as an independent media medium if he were alone? If, for example, All those who express their opinion on the blog would come together, would we view it as a robust polypolitan medium? Not according to the highest definitions, analyses and criteria. Education minister, and not according to the definitions and criteria set out in the same kind of law in the North countries quoted and quoted by the Supreme essay. Secretary of education. Of course, in order to strengthen or make a decision to strengthen the individual media by some means in the way of the State, we need to define what is a number of points in the sense that we would like to strengthen and support.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u278	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that in the bill is precisely an attempt to define what a polycenter is based on objective indicators such as the number of employees, the frequency of publication, etc., but not content. That's what I feared a bit about the senator's words, that he wasn't comfortable with that objective definition and that he really wanted to put a tight grip on the subject or the content of the media, which I really hope is a misunderstanding on my part because then we would really be out on ice. Something else I'll keep in my words. The senator's discussion about taking the Kingdom News out of a commercial market. It is clear, of course, that this bill does not address the big problem, which is, of course, that we are strengthening one media medium to a significant degree that is affecting the competitiveness of all the other media on the market. I find the subject of this matter to be: How can we reduce the competitiveness caused by the great state strength to RUS without reducing e.g. • providing funds for domestic programs, public reporting, and the like? You may be able to do so through some competitive fund. Allowing other media to strengthen, including RUSV. It would be possible to make use of this and part of the budget that runs to RUV today to some such competitive fund. But I thought about the sense of pulling RUSA out of a commercial market, especially if such a procedure is to include increasing the government's contribution to a return call. Advertisers have noted that it would be far from the default that today's advertising budget would flow to other national media if the RuV was taken from a commercial market but might as well run into foreign resources. I'd be interested to hear what you're talking about. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u279	A respectable president. I don't think it's particularly difficult to answer this last question. Senator. We know about this, these are the kind of approaches I'm now going with less than just looking it up right now. I wonder if the exchange of what would break free in an Icelandic commercial market -- and now I'm not talking about it all happening on one board, it might be thought of in four quarters or something like that - and I suppose the exchange between what the national media are involved in latering on the RUS out of this market would not be just a similar proportion to what it is now? One guess is that the commercial advertising of Icelandic enterprises in the United States is simply distributed somewhere between 85 and 90% in Icelandic media and 101⁄215% in foreign sectors. Certain types of advertisements, animals, large advertisements both expensive for production and for animal production and are always put in terms of elections, commercial advertisements of the major Icelandic companies, which have so-called priests 'pells, image advertisements and so on, do not go to social media. They'll go on, if I may sophisticate, the Icelandic Šmainstream, the media. It was a misunderstanding if anything happened. In this context, a senator has understood my words so that I would give thought to the specific content of the air - conditioned media. I'm talking about, just like in the bill itself, objective standards where you can say, "It's a blog, it's the platform of their opinion. The other, however, is news medium. In either case, as the bill assumes, it will be to draw a line between just the point of view and the subject of the newscast. It must be communicated in some objective way. [[The president calls.]] Alternatively, this support for the private media cannot be used. [[The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic, and (PlIM: excuse me.) It is especially important to honor it, especially when discussing VOLV.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u280	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u281	It is especially important to honor it, especially when discussing VOLV.)
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u282	President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I think we're basically what we're doing here. A senator deeply agrees on our view of the media in general. I share all the concerns that were handled at the outset of the councilman's speech. I'm not going to take a deep look at the subject and extend the discussion unnecessaryly. On the other hand, as much surprise comes to me when a discussion of the support of private media becomes apparent, as this discussion shows, that most of it goes to what some call an elephant in a living room. I've never seen an elephant in a living room and I don't see the State Radio as an elephant in a living room. This bill is for the support of private media drivers. I read it. In speaking in such a way that he was backed up by such support, a senator wanted to consider afterward something to settle the situation and something that we may not necessarily agree on. I want to take advantage of this opportunity that I always do when talking to people who feel this way when it comes to the media, to ask the simple question, is it? A senator thinks, regardless of the advertisements of VOLV, that there is a need to strengthen the private media. I will even allow myself, yes or no, to pray. A senator to look to the northern countries. Why is it that in the North countries, even though the state's media does not have a commercial market, law -makers feel the need to strengthen their own private media? Why would the situation be different here? Should it not even be that because of the help we receive, there would be a greater need for support here? Is there no need for support in the media around here as much as in the North countries, regardless of the position of RUS in advertising?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u283	A respectable president. First, I apologize for having had those cigarettes. I actually apologized for them in advance, I think, before using them earlier. But now I promise I won't go any further out here tonight. I think that's exactly what happened. A senator before this, of course, is worth considering, that the legislature industry in the North countries gives him reason to strengthen their state-made media despite their lack of competition for advertising markets. It doesn't change the position in Iceland, and I don't think any private media in any West area have such overwhelming competition on this market. I don't think there's any country in the Western world where the state has a 50% share in photon mediums and 20% of total. So that's exactly right. My words here are not to be misunderstood that it is not right to support private English media without regard for the fact that the RUV is a commercialist. But at the station and in the Icelandic media market, you will not be seen without highlighting a share of RUS. We compared our numbers earlier. It's in the highest bill now. The Minister of Education and Culture estimates that the direct support of the private media will be met by 400 million, while the U.S. topic for comparison is more than 2,000 million in a commercial market. I thought it was quite paradox and illogical to look to a direct state support of private media without taking into account this state radio position on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u284	President. No support for the media in Iceland can be consulted without looking to the VOLV position. Senator. Yes, we did, for example. When we wrote the government covenant that I and I had. A senator agreed to both. Then we looked to the very mass media that we agreed on without looking to the state of RUS - which is not contained in a controlled government contract. You see, I find it a little difficult to see how another conclusion can be drawn from the situation in all countries around us. We call the North countries because we tend to look there, our bodies and all that. But it's just a lot more than that. Private media are everywhere in trouble. It doesn't matter whether there's a huge national radio with 50% of the advertising market or what it is, 20%, I can't remember the figure as a dog. A senator talked about it. It doesn't matter. Yet, the media has private media at the bottom. Is not the conclusion to be drawn from the fact that the media itself, the media business, is it difficult to support it? Or should you take the variable RUS, which is only in one place, and let it hold here? I don't think so. I guess I'm not a scientist, but I don't think so. This is reflected in a fine report on this bill that is very effective in support, especially in the North countries, what is being done there. It involves considering taking even more steps. How should we react to what governments view as democracies? By supporting the private media even more, despite the fact that the government media there is not in advertising markets. That's why I don't understand that it's possible to assume that it's all about the state media. When the situation is so elsewhere, regardless of the national media of the country, I feel that I have learned the wrong lesson from the situation in other countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u285	A respectable president. With reference to the government covenant, it is true that it speaks of support for the private media. However, there is no part of the Treaty that the support of the private media cannot exactly be the result of a waning of a commercial market. There is one way to support the private media. There was a paradox. A senator earlier. The change in the media market in all the other North countries is that the government does not go to advertising markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u286	Still, support is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u287	However, the media needs to be supported. We would likely have to support the private media because of this changed situation in recent years, even though we also made room for them in the advertising market. But it would make the need for a direct state support less necessary if, at the same time, this presumptuous presence of the State of the State on the media market was to be reduced. She's deaf. There's no trace of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u288	Mr. President. Here's a bill for law coverage from the highest level. Education and cultural minister on the change in press law. I'd just like to grab down to the h-party, under the pledge requirements for reimbursement at cost, but it says, by permission of the president: The sixth part of the editor, published in print and network media, should be based on an independent news or document source. The same applies to news, news, news media, and the coverage of social issues mediated by audio and graphics and other comparable media. I really wanted to come into this because I can't clearly see how the h- team will be monitored and how that monitoring takes place every report that appears in each media. Mr. President. I'd also like to grab somewhere else. Here, those who have spoken before have been discussing figures in this context, and it says in a report, with the permission of a president: In 2016, U.S.A., the income of the media was about $29 billion. Of these, about $2.2 billion ran to the press alone, and $5.8 billion went to the Kingdom Hall. Thus, in 2016 the share of the Kingdom News in total was about 21 percent. In 2016, the share of the Kingdom News in advertising was taken by all the media by 15%, but on average, about 38% of the commercial recordings of audio and video mediums. In these figures, I think there may be a reason why so many before me have mentioned the elephant, whether pink or not, Mr. President. I've only slightly killed on top of the bill's contents. Minister to legalize the media law. There's no doubt in my mind to the highest. A minister, as well as most of us, would like to secure the management grounds of the individual media and thus contribute to a wide range of flea images, audio and print services. That is why I am surprised to learn that in an attempt to promote such fleas, you can see, a targeted attempt to avoid anything that faces anyone who has studied the revenue of the media markets and, after incident, the size and scope of the servers themselves. The bill may not be put out of good mind, as stated earlier, but it is sadly in the large context of neither a bird nor a fish or, at least, an extremely drossy of the redness. This bill, its management and all the approach to the highest level. Minister, it seems to me that there is something strong in the fact that none of this is to be taken lightly by the RuV, which seems to have become a kind of state in the state - or, as has been done here, the elephant in the living room. It cannot be overlooked, Mr. President, that there will be no real improvement in the media industry unless a minister has the courage to cope with the elephant. As long as the elephant is fully fed, it will always be in a position to eliminate all those who compete with it, regardless of minor measures. The method and methodology at the highest. As a result, I don't think any water dikes in the environment of the individual media are going to be causing any educational and cultural minister. On the contrary, it seems to me that this is a case in which everything is given in order not to take action that cannot be settled. If there is a real desire to improve the economic status of the uniques, why is it more appropriate to take complex measures that include considerable costs for monitoring and intervention, which, in fact, are so reasonable, within the number mentioned on the bill? Thus, it can be concluded that the bill contributes to the enlargement of the government's surveillance section at the relevant cost. So it is in the opinion of what is said here that all approach to the highest level of approach is quite clear. Governments in their efforts to promote privateized media are marked by not having to interfere with the elephant that has no need to deviate from the state. Rather, it is chosen to increase the number of pools and scuttle on the market the opportunity to eat from meeting all kinds of conditions that must be met by the committee. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture must ask this bill to be legal for the government. How surprised it must be that the Independence Party approves of the methodology of creating yet another official funding system rather than attack the root cause of the problem, which, in the opinion of the person being present, is the simple fact that there is no political courage to reduce the size of the VR on the market! The conclusion, then, is likely to be the result of all of this. It does not matter, though, that the number of cross-handled reports would be written that most of them clearly realize that the size of RUS is the underlying issue - all of this would be done to avoid the underlying problem. It's all Trix used to not have to go to VOLV. Therefore, I must also conclude that political vision in this respect is due to fear of how the Kingdom News responds. Mr. President. I'm going to repeat the last sentence: The political vision is determined by the fear of the State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u289	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill that has been requested with a sense of urgency. It is not indiscriminate, and the discussion involves a number of things. It is the large, careful, and important government medium, the state radio, the head and shoulders of all the media in Iceland, both in size and in quality, and no one wanted to be without the State Radio, I believe, even when it comes to human efforts to achieve a significant degree about the management plan or the work form. They manage their income, manage the funding, and no doubt we need to close it, and close no doors in that direction. Talking about the pink elephant in the living room, I feel a little exaggerated. We know exactly what it's all about. We need a powerful multicenter medium, such as The Kingdom Radio, and no matter where they stand, we would not want to see his face under pressure. The bill we're considering here has been in the dough for a while and will eventually appear to us. It has to be admitted that there is a somewhat drier form of redness than a chemical that didn't exist, but it should be kept in place, at least I, to the highest. Ministers have great ambition for this subject, to drive it forward, and that the minister has an understanding of the situation in Iceland. I am most occupied with national media, and my opening point at this brief talk will be the national media and their focus. This bill arranges for the media to provide temporary support for the reimbursement of part of the cost of obtaining and dispensing materials according to what the law says. It's a temporary reimbursement, I assume we're bound to a common European law code which defines this as a state support, and it probably has to happen under certain merits. A respectable president. The traditional basis for most individual media, at least reduction of the media in the country, appears to be broken. There are a few reasons. In the past few years, there have been tremendous technological changes; advertising revenues have become tighter, companies are developing a multi-changing market, and in a way that is quite different. Then, as we have seen, foreign groups have made themselves increasingly relevant to a national competitive market in the media and the communication process has become all kinds of. The advertising trade is increasingly moving abroad to major companies at the cost of traditional EU media. These traditional private media media are carrying a sharp object from a table in their advertising revenues, and they are bordering on a flat crash. A respectable president. There is no need for many people to comment on the value of the media in a democracies community. In this discussion, there have been some, such as ministers and others. They bring news of the present time, near and far, and are a platform of diverse opinions on the subject of popular and social importance, thus contributing to the sharing of information into open and enlightened discussions and community knowledge, participation and responsibility for which each well - being community needs and actually builds up its organization. There is an example of democratic elections. These media are spreading. This is important, whether it belongs to local media or to larger media sources. Thus, changes in the media's environment can have tremendous direct effects, and the importance of the news media of independent, free, unappreciative media will be late overrated. It has not been mentioned, which is an enormously important factor in the use of personal media, as well as another important role, the language, the treatment of the language, the language of the language. At the same time, the media play a vital role in maintaining, strengthening, protecting, and protecting the Icelandic language, which is at an ever greater rate. I'm biden to the highest. A minister also had this in mind, for she has spoken this word. By means of the bill presented here, there are no new paths to follow. We're just participating in the same kind of work as the one who did. The northern nations have been wondering. When it comes to talking about the elephant in the clinic, which is the State Radio, all the European countries have a large and large national radio, national television, and these nations don't want to be without it. These are the most powerful cultural centers in every country. How they are run, how they are financed - we need to deal with them even more here. The bill of what we are discussing is how to promote the individual media in today's society, in modern society, and how governments can contribute in their way to this without the threat of the independentness of the media and impartialness. This has been about something here tonight, whether a medium with government support can be impartial and may be bound to those who are involved in financing. I think it's a far-fetched explanation. We can refer to social examples to refute these things. Of course, I'm the most thoughtful media in the country. I know their lot, I know their circumstances, and I know how important their role is. I also know and know that they calm biofuels. Their endurance is limited, and if it breaks down, it will be difficult to turn back. We still have the opportunity to resist, and it is necessary to encourage the advice now in the dough. The media in rural areas play an important role, both local and national. They are often a form of portal into communities, which, otherwise, are far too many hidden communities. Despite their metabolism and new technologies, they still play an important role, projects as news and cultural media, and they serve as a publicity site in their area. They draw out a special position in the settlements, at times holding on to protection from important regional interests. Sadly, though, these media have to go to great lengths. There are more and more media in the direct or indirect possession of financial resources, investors or large companies in their territory or national level. That's what we know. The regional newscasts fight in trays, they even hold out Web editions, and they may also be subscriptions. On the subscriptions, those who publish magazines in the country will build their lives, for advertisements are failing them. We also have a fine example of having a television station in the country, and it is a pleasure to know that it is in Akureyri. She is involved in a variety of programs, news - related materials, and is involved in learning not only from the Eyjafjörður but throughout the country. That network comes in trays. The urban media has made the insurance bill a topic to my ears, e.g. is a high percentage of the cost of operating small media insurance fees that the state pays in all companies. The present government has a reduction in the overall insurance budget, which is a special debate. The union has suggested that small and medium - sized sceptical companies be met in this respect. A respectable president. The urban media, like others, depends on advertising's release in its own business. As mentioned earlier, this substance constantly increases. Companies have the services of advertising agencies that weigh clearly where to expect the maximum benefit from publication, and there is no mercy on the journey. The values displayed in local newscasts are often underestimated because they are widely read, read far beyond their original versions. The national media are very concerned about this and, in fact, a serious disagreement with the general policy of public institutions such as the government tax president, recruitment, health agencies, schools, and other public agencies against local advertising to reach all the population. Some of the articles say that the government does not have one annual advertisement in the media. They say that such institutions, especially in Reykjavík, are too much to be served by all citizens, advertised in newspapers that have much less reading in the country than in local media. The inhabitants of the country are thus missing even official information to which everyone should have access. The newspapers are today, as the national editors put it, mainly local newsblades of the capital area and their spread in the region is limited according to their opinion. It has been pointed out, and it is discussed in a discourse and in a publication, a dignified president, including. in the high General Assembly, the need to increase the transparency of media resources and prevent compression, as has occurred in recent years. In fact, behind companies are even invisible money forces that move forward with hyperpower. We have an example of this. A respectable president. The sound of the rural media is weak. Private, neutral, and practical media in the country have grown weak, and they will be rapidly deteriorating in the next few months and will not be helped to survive. It is in my opinion that the inhabitants of the land, and the profit of all the people of the land, shall not depart from the market. If the government wishes to contribute to the continuation of democracies and community talk through the privateised media, I strongly support the supreme. The minister of education and culture will not yield but will see to it that support the private, especially memory, regional media, and that this support will not be reduced but will be replaced as originally expected, thereby continuing to be a flourishing and ambitious media sharing from all members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u290	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for transporting the language we speak about. I agree with what. paritaprevir Þorgrímur's Sigmundsson that the case is a minister trying to solve the problems we know, i.e. what the situation of the individual media is. But I agree with those who have criticized the methodology, I don't think it's true. I agree that this route is part of the media's realm, to strengthen them directly from the state pocket. I think it's better to go a way that we middle-class people have made. Then there is a simpler way, simply thinking that each person will decide on his own tax returns whether he will usually support the media or not. I'm one of those who disagree. A senator who spoke here before me. How did you put it? paritaprevir The Brjánsson? Nobody wants to be without a VOLV is trying? Yeah, I don't care about VOLV. I can survive without it. Like many farmers and inhabitants of the country, the last days were completely free of the storm. They might have liked to have information through that medium, but he failed his role as a security valve, that is clear. [[Up front.]] Therefore, it is important to look for other ways to get information to those who are isolated when it is tried rather than to rely on that medium. I also think that the private media are just the same, even better, to be careful about democratic discussions, considering that equality is being guarded, because it is not mine to know what the Government Radio does. The other day, we saw some environmental show on TV, which held 11 people on the same page as two people who had some other speculations. I don't think that's an example of a man's being equal or just being truthful. You could count on it. So I think it's important that as soon as we try to strengthen the private media, the state radio activity is reduced. The best way to do this is to bring the government radio money to the media in some way, and we're not adding the money the state puts in the media market. This bill is a very good thing to start this discussion and discuss it in a full-scale and educational committee and here at the council which way we want to go. What do we want to do when it comes to strengthening the private media? What is the best way to do that? Do we want to do this without messing with the State Radio Agency? Do we just want it tied up, and we'll just let it suck to himself 6,000,7,000 million of the market market market market market if we take in the disposal fees or the nose tax? No, I think it's way too much money that can be used in other ways and better. I may go back and forth a little, Mr. President, I'm sorry for that. Only on the bill. It seems to me there is no limit to the idea of, for example, that there is no limit to it. I can't see that it really matters. It may well be that it changes into a committee's activities, I don't know, but as I understand the bill, people can make money on their finger and still get stronger if they meet certain conditions. Besides, I can't see that, like. local newspapers or media in a country that is published over a period of six months. It may be a misunderstanding, I don't know, but it looks like it's out of line, too, e.g. When it comes to those who publish magazines, that it is at least published 48 times a year something like this, if I have understood this correctly. But I'll tell you, this is now a little fast-reading, I have to admit it. I don't quite get it, either, maybe later, the way this bill should defend or strengthen the language of the Icelandic language. I don't see that there's a condition in the bill. I may have overlooked it. I'm making it clear. I know, however, that the highest. A minister of education is very eager to get more money from the education system. I think it would be easier to put these 400 million into the education system and try to strengthen the activities that are going on there to further the Icelandic language instead of putting them into this channel without seeing exactly how it should work, so I'm just saying it out loud. I'm still trying to stick to the bill. It happened earlier in a little bit. A senator said that he lacked the definition of what is polycentric. I agree with that. I went through this fast, and I didn't see that definition. It may be somewhere else in the law we're doing here. But that may be the case. something that needs to be explained better. Perhaps that explanation or interpretation of what is media to change regularly is because you hardly have to learn new media or new tools and tools and such things in this world, it's constantly changing and something new to come. Which leads me to an enormous degree of competition with social media. We see that companies prefer more and more to post their advertising money on community media instead of putting it on the standard media we know, newspapers, radio stations, and that sort of thing. As a result, at the same time, I feel that the very state of the media is making it even more difficult for me to see how much Kingdom Hall is doing on this market. It may well be possible to meet these opinions somewhere and greatly reduce the activities of The Kingdom News without completing it for its cultural role. I just want to say for myself that there are a lot of fun things you can hear, for example. on Channel 1, informative and theoretical terms, in the course of the country's culture and history. It is quite different from the constant replay of films from 1980 or even older, which is very common. A respectable president. I think it's important for a global and educational committee to do a very thorough analysis on this matter, so I wonder if the bill as it appears solves the case as the highest level. Minister wants to try to solve it. I don't think so. Then we need to make adjustments in the matter or perhaps. how to present a new issue or how to change it really solves the problem. But this is the first step. This is a step toward accepting the challenge to strengthen the private media. I would've liked it to be different and more general, to include more media, as I understand the case, but now I'm going to give the General and Education Committee a chance to correct it before making any big statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u291	A respectable president. We here discuss a very important subject on the media in the country, and it remains to be supported by personal efforts. By having powerful personal skills, we provide for the diversity and then the maintenance of the multicentered medium and then only the politics and the like, so this is extremely important. But there are many views on this matter, and I would like to begin by saying that, of course, a person is a spokesman for the general work environment in this country that there are small obstacles, low spells, that the management environment is good, so that companies, whatever their operations, whether media or other occupations, can succeed, in general, that there are taxes low and other laws. In this regard, we are discussing being a small nation with one huge Kingdom medium that competes with others, so the environment is even more difficult. So we're here discussing each piece of the budget we've planned for the next year - we've taken from 400 million - is the best way to promote the private media and respond to the position we are in, as I said before, in a small country with a huge competitor. Then I think it's most expedient to use that money to improve the environment of the media. This can be done in several ways. Basically, the question is, How do we apply these 400 million? I think it's supposed to be in the form of an icicle, that says the lower taxes and pressures on these companies, rather than in the bone, strengthens it to be a little more general and beneficial, and it doesn't have to be under the heel or dependent on the media committee's well-to-dos. I think it's always the best. I think we also need in this matter how we strengthen the environment of the individual media to examine the overall picture. I'd like to talk to you about the role of the state radio. I think that as technology has developed, society evolved, the media world evolved, and all of it evolved into different forms. I think the aims of the State Radio are all entitled to ensure that there is a culture, ensures Icelandic language, ensures security, ensures certain foreign materials that have certain cultural value and need to be displayed here as well. It's all right. But is there another way we can reach these goals? Maybe we could, for example. move the role of the State Radio on to be a competitive fund so that the funds used today for the Government Radio would be reduced to the fact that the State Radio itself has a linear program and produced factors rather than a competitive budget to distribute money on the tasks that the free market does not? Free market culture does not lift up the sports that the free market does not reveal? Then we may be strengthening other chemical manufacturers by access to such a competitive fund that would strengthen them to make more varied material. We know that when the personal enterprise is enjoyed, it finds other ways and practical ways to produce the material and often put forth great effort, perhaps less in a stately environment where all wages and expenses are paid at the top. This can be important. That's why I think we should look further to turn the Kingdom Radio into a more competitive fund and stress that it is called "teamers. " Make it a condition. First, we've made legal adjustments at the General Assembly to get the Gold Boxes there, and I think it's extremely important to maintain our cultural resources, and especially in the English language, that all the Golden chests of the State Radio are available to the public through the materials and at the same time that all the material produced by the competitive funds will be returned within a certain period of time to this network. Nor can you let go of the situation without talking about advertising and VOLV at a commercial market. I think if we went more to what I was going over earlier, to turn the RUS into a competitive fund so that the private media can start producing more materials themselves, they will, of course, get a better audience and a wider audience. This will make it easier for them to sell advertising. At the same time, the share of the Kingdom News would be drawn together in a commercial market. But while we're in the same organization, I think it's hard for me to say that the RuV should go entirely off a commercial market because there would be a measure of the printing freedom that I think is important, too. There we need to find a compromise, and then we also need to answer the question, How does that affect us, for example? in the country's sports and the sports that the free market does not send much live live news from today's world. The national radio has been able to show directly from other sports events, since it has been able to sell advertising, thus costing the broadcast. They need to ensure that this exists, or that the private media is being given increased opportunities for this and about national games and other factors, where special relationships have gained more advertising if it is a long broadcast time and can sell advertisements on it. This is one of the things to keep in mind, the way the sports movement plays with this commercial market, as well as the freedom of printing. However, I think the most important thing is to put the private slippers in the position that they get a lot more of this cake. It is not just that RUSA gathers at the advertising market and reduces its activities but that will be an opportunity to show much of those who produce such products as such. Land. There's a lot of really good stuff on The State Radio, and I'd like to say this here that with the last national service contract, it worked out a lot. The TV began to buy more game material and to publish, began to produce less within the house. I think that was a good development. But I'm talking about taking this further and going all the way to a competitive fund so that materials are produced and shown outside the house and then coming and turning into this chemical system. That is how we are looking to the future. We're developing. You notice that there are more, especially the young generation, who never look at a linear program. It is only sometimes difficult to offer up to your children. They don't know what it is. We need to respond to a change in our schedule. I think we can take all of this together, revise the role of the state radio, the original goals it was set out with, how to get it the most effectively so that it will strengthen the free market at the same time. There's one thing I'd like to say. While we have the Government Radio so well financed, as I would like to say it is today and with a superior status, can there be no more demands on its duties? For example. to keep the speech and texting requirement on the State Radio but to remove it from the private media so that people can always get all the text that is shown on the Kingdom News for public money, otherwise it's the choice of the other media whether they have the text or not. This is one of the factors that can contribute to their operation in the competition they are involved in an international task force operating in the EEA and being fully accessible here, but not in the same requirements. This is the kind of thing that I would like to introduce in this short talk about another big case, that we should not just attach ourselves to the problem by solving the media and increasing our surveillance through a media committee as soon as we take the State Radio off a commercial market. We have many possibilities, we need to think only about how we can make each of our goals play together, have powerful, free media, powerful cultures, display as a variety of sports events, maintain the Icelandic language and the printing freedom so that advertising and other media can be introduced. I just hope the General is working well on this case, getting a lot of reviews and taking the time to review that case, and finding a good solution to a strong, powerful media sharing in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u292	Mr. President. The bill we're discussing here gives me and other members in general reason to discuss the Icelandic media in a broad context. If it is our will to support the diversity of the media, to ensure that personal media flows are allowed to thrive, it cannot be avoided to define the role and responsibilities of the State TV, at least one cannot be avoided. that government business in the media does not replace private media. I have said that we may be in a situation similar to that of a doctor who looks at the patient and has two choices, may cut away the injury, or may get the patient to the doctor or give him painkillers, hoping that he will feel better about the pain medication. There's no debate that the mind that is behind the bill we're discussing here is good, and in that respect I'm celebrating it to the highest level. Ministers should offer the bill even though I would have chosen it to be somewhat different. After the bill, there is a sincere resolve to take action to strengthen independent sources. However, I fear that the bill will not achieve its purpose. In October 2015, a commission issued by the Ministry of Education had ordered a report on the operations and administration of the Kingdom News. It raised specific questions that have, unfortunately, been avoided in large part by humans. 1st Is ohf. Is the plan practical for the operation of the Kingdom News? 2. Is the TV supposed to be in a commercial market? 3. Is TV the best means to achieve goals that turn to Icelandic culture, language, and democracies? 4. You can get better use of common resources from your country, i.e. the radio fee, but letting them run to the state media? The topic of this 2015 report was very limited, but I insist that the questions raised are as important today as they were four years ago. I have never concealed my doubts about the rightness of the state to own and run a media company. However, I am fully aware that in time, it will be a good thing to quit a government operation in the fields of light. I do not minimize the sincere conviction of many people, not just in this community, but in the need for the State to have and drive a powerful media medium to support Icelandic culture, art, history, and language, and to ensure the general effectiveness of news transport. Under the shadow of this powerful government, there is a free media, and it is on its feet. To be honest with you, I admire those individuals who decide to make aground on this market and lay down everything in a rather uneven game. It doesn't matter whether I like the subject of the psychic or the material or editorialism. I think our diversity in the media is one of the most important things we're supposed to work on, and hence, different subjects, different points of view, and different editorialism. In a special discussion that took place in January 2018 regarding the particular media position, the media pointed out why. paritaprevir Víglundsson claims that perhaps there are ways beyond government to support Icelandic culture, language, and democracies. He wondered: " Should the coming of the State be through a competitive fund rather than a media medium? ' In itself, this is not different from any approach. paritaprevir Will Árnason was with us earlier. In some ways, the Þorsteinn proposal for a competitive fund is not different from the ideas I presented in 2010 in a very long article, which I know that all members of this body have read, and appeared in the nationalities where I suggested that all the cards be jumped up and the role of the State TV would be tailored to the changing circumstances, a new government radio broadcast would stop all programs outside the press, but all programs on radio and television would be bought by independent producers outside foreign hierarchies. I think if we went this way, we'd be giving one of the greatest vitamins into the business of the independent manufacturers, whether on television or on the radio, and all the more, we'd be all over the country. We need to balance the situation, and we need to make the environment more healthy than it is. In the past year, a committee on the environment of the individual media provided proposals for action on seven teams, which can correct some of the media's management conditions. The suggestions were good, but I doubt that they lay the groundwork for an extended period of time on the independent media. It is my sincere conviction that the environment of the independent media will not be healthy until the role of the state radio is redefined and at least the four questions I raised earlier will be answered, and we will agree on that. I am one of those who have repeatedly warned of the ideas of creating a government transfer system to support individual companies or sectors. However, my choice of depression and many others is that when it comes to strengthening independent media, we do not have many benefits and perhaps few good ones. I am convinced, however, that the most efficient way, along with the definition of the role and duties of the Kingdom News and the bonding of its competitiveness, is a reduction in taxes. I probably threw down a year or two before the idea that we should cancel a merit extra tax from the press' subscriptions. The idea was far from perfect, and its main flaw was that much of the individual media had not enjoyed such injury in any way. You see, if we take to the taxable wills and believe they are justified, which are always controversial, they must be consistent and transparent, and in this case, all private media must sit at the same level and get a relative will. That's even. low by canceling the insurance bill. This results in a relative reduction in each medium relative to the pay cost. The taxation, then, is based on individual business practices. You can put a roof on this will and aim for it not to reach above the upper level, and for the top level of income tax in the coming year. This is one way we should look at it. It is also important that we keep in mind a little story that often wants to be forgotten and was the reason why I suggested that we examine the value of subscriptions. In the past, subscriptions were without respect for extra tax. When worth tax was adopted, in 1988 the lawgiver made a decision to exclude the media subscriptions. Sales of newspapers and parts of the country were excluded from the value of extra taxes. This was changed in 1992 when a new level of cost taxes was recorded, then 14%. After that change, the cost tax fell on books, magazines, magazines, and the use of radio and television, i.e. The government radio, the disposal fees so-called. By law in 2006, this value of taxation was reduced to 7%. When the State Radio was turned into a public partner in 2007 and the radio bill incorporated in so - called subdividual tax, the independent media continued to carry a merit tax from the same stock. The finance Department estimates that the value of this injury was some 130 million, and it showed that it was actually worth more because the State Radio could use the merit of the tax system by using the tax that the financial office hadn't figured out. Ideally, the intention of the State Radio was expected to be due to the usefulness of the tax that is reserved for an additional tax, between 2007 and 2007, when the State Radio was made into an official partner, 500,6600 million. It is also worth keeping in mind that in 2015 we increased the worthy tax for our annual subscriptions to 7% of the media to 11%. It was a blow we have to recognize. It's quite remarkable when you look at what's going on in Europe and how people create a tax environment for the media in Europe that no European nation has a private media to hold such a high value tax as we do in Iceland at the sale of that medium. Some countries have no value tax on the media, France has less than 3%, and the most common level in Europe is, on average, 4◯9%. That is a thought - provoking point. I'll take care of that, my respectable President, at the moment. The General and Education Committee is getting this bill done and I'm expecting a lot of envelopes to come through. [[The president calls.]] I believe that it is necessary for the committee to examine all the comments made because it is possible to process this way in order to actually achieve the goal of strengthening independent media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-16-46.u293	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on timelines.
